 Annual Report for the 
year ended 31 December 2012
Stock Code: VSVS
A GLOBAL LEADER IN MOLTEN METAL ENGINEERING Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Welcome to Vesuvius
Vesuvius is a global leader in metal flow engineering, 
principally serving the steel and foundry industries 
with customised products, services and technologies 
that make demanding applications possible. 
Our mission is to develop innovative solutions that 
enable our customers to improve the performance 
of their manufacturing process and reduce energy 
consumption, whilst providing each employee with 
a safe workplace where he or she is recognised, 
developed and properly rewarded.
Our ultimate goal is to deliver sustainable, profitable 
growth and provide our shareholders with a superior 
return on their investment.
Vesuvius is a community of experts. Present around 
the world, we deliver solutions to our customers 
to improve their efficiency. The services we offer 
encompass design and engineering, products and 
operations management. Our global network of 
manufacturing facilities brings us within reach of 
our customers, serving them in real time, with the 
capacity and flexibility they need to respond to their 
markets’ demands. Our research and development 
effort allows us constantly to enhance the quality and 
effectiveness of our offerings.
The strategy we operate is to concentrate on our 
main field of historical expertise — molten metal 
casting technology — and to enlarge our offering 
through technological advancements, increased 
measurement and control of our customers’ 
production processes, and innovative services. 
Serving principally the steel and foundry industries 
through our Vesuvius and Foseco brands respectively, 
we also selectively participate in other industries 
where we can apply our unique capabilities to deliver 
profitable business. 
Our proximity to customers around the world is driven 
by our commitment to support their operations on a 
continuous basis, supplying custom-made consumables 
on a real time basis — all aimed at never letting them 
down. From this support structure we have built a 
business model that brings continuous improvement 
solutions for our customers’ processes over the long-
term, evidenced by the long-standing relationships 
we have established with our major customers in our 
target markets across the world.
The trust of our customers is based on our unique 
technological capability to improve our customers’ 
manufacturing processes. We continuously invest in 
technology to maintain and enrich this capability, 
with a balance between fundamental knowledge 
improvement and product development. This 
investment in research and development has placed 
Vesuvius and Foseco at the forefront of technological 
advancements driving the metal casting process, and 
we are the inventors of the majority of the solutions 
that are today’s state of the art. We continue to work 
on the future breakthroughs of our industry.
Meanwhile we are developing our capability to 
supply additional technical services through real 
time data capture and interpretation based on our 
expertise in metal flow simulation. This will help 
our customers to improve the efficiency of their core 
technology, enabling them to produce better metal 
which not only has higher performance, but is more 
consistent and less costly, whilst at the same time 
producing lower greenhouse gas emissions.
The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 17 December 2012.
For this, our first year of existence, we are pleased to introduce the Vesuvius business, 
its values and commitments and its strategy.
Image: Microscopy sample – Vesuvius R&D 01
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Financial Statements Governance Our Performance Overview
Contents
Overview
Welcome to Vesuvius ifc 
Geographic location 02
Highlights of the year 03
Our businesses 04 
Message from our Chairman 06 
Message from our Chief Executive 09
The Vesuvius business model 13
Performance
Operating review: Steel 17 
Operating review: Foundry 23 
Company Values and Commitments 29 
Health & safety 31
Committed to people 35
Customer focused 39
Innovation 43
Sustainability 47
Financial review 51
Key performance indicators 57
Principal risks and uncertainties 58
Governance
Board of Directors 62
Corporate governance report 64 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 100 
Independent Auditor’s report 101
Financial Statements
Group income statement 102
Group statement of comprehensive income 103
Group statement of cash flows 104
Group balance sheet 105
Group statement of changes in equity 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107
Company balance sheet 154
Notes to the Company financial statements 155
Five year summary — divisional results 160
Shareholder information 160
“The trust of 
our customers 
is based on 
our unique 
technological 
capability to 
improve our 
customers’ 
manufacturing 
processes.” 
FRANÇOIS WANECQ,  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  02
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Geographic location
OF OUR OPERATIONS BY REVENUE AND HEADCOUNT
NAFTA
£391m
 STEEL  81%
 FOUNDRY  19%
2,511 EMPLOYEES
ROW
£69m
 STEEL  74%
 FOUNDRY  26%
681 EMPLOYEES
SOUTH AMERICA
£109m
 STEEL  59%
 FOUNDRY  41%
714 EMPLOYEES
EUROPE
£629m
 STEEL  67%
 FOUNDRY  33%
4,001 EMPLOYEES
ASIA
£350m
 STEEL  48%
 FOUNDRY  52%
3,279 EMPLOYEES 03
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Highlights of the year
 ❯ COMPLETION OF DEMERGER OF ALENT PLC
 ❯ SALE OF US PRECIOUS METALS PROCESSING BUSINESS
 ❯ SALE ANNOUNCED ON 27 MARCH 2013 OF REMAINDER OF PRECIOUS METALS PROCESSING DIVISION
 ❯ SIGNIFICANT RESHAPING OF PORTFOLIO, INCLUDING COMPLETE EXIT FROM SOLAR CRUCIBLES BUSINESS
 ❯ INCREASED FLEXIBILITY IN COST BASE
 ❯ RAPID RESPONSE TO ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN
 ❯ REVENUE OF £1,548m FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (EXCLUDING ALENT AND PRECIOUS METALS  
PROCESSING DIVISION), DOWN 8%
 ❯ TRADING PROFIT OF £133m FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS, DOWN 28%; 23% AT CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES
 ❯ HEADLINE PERFORMANCE RESULTS
(1)
, PRO FORMA
(2)
 FOR VESUVIUS AS A STAND-ALONE GROUP:
2012 2011
REVENUE (£m) 1,548 1,686
TRADING PROFIT (£m) 133.0 183.5
RETURN ON SALES (%) 8.6% 10.9%
HEADLINE
(2)
 PBT (£m) 118.2 162.1
EFFECTIVE TAX RATE (%) 26.7% 26.6%
HEADLINE
(2)
 EPS (PENCE) 29.4 41.0
 ❯ RECOMMENDED FINAL DIVIDEND OF 9.50p PER SHARE
 ❯ STRONG BALANCE SHEET; NET DEBT OF £295m; LEVERAGE RATIO (NET DEBT TO EBITDA) OF 1.5 TIMES
 ❯ SIGNIFICANT PENSION LIABILITY DE-RISKING 
REVENUE
 
(£m)
2011 2012
1,686
1,548
HEADLINE PERFORMANCE
(1)
EBITDA
 
(£m)
2011 2012
227.6
176.1
HEADLINE PERFORMANCE
(1)
HEADLINE EPS
 
(p)
2011 2012
41.0
29.4
HEADLINE  
PRO FORMA
(2)
FREE CASH FLOW
 
(£m)
2011 2012
32.1
54.2
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
(1) Headline Performance represents the results of Continuing Operations before all separately reported items.
(2) Pro forma results restate Headline Performance to remove an estimate of the interest charge incurred by Vesuvius, but which was attributed to Alent debt (see the Financial Review for further details). 04
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Our businesses
STEEL
The continuous casting of steel is a highly demanding process that is critically 
dependent upon consistent product quality and optimised production. Vesuvius 
provides systems, products and services that allow steel mills to control the flow 
of metal and protect it from oxidation and chemical contamination, increasing 
productivity, enhancing the quality of steel and improving the safety of the casting 
process, while representing a fraction of the customer’s total production costs 
(typically less than 1%). 
Steel Flow Control products supplied by Vesuvius include: the Viso™ product 
range, which are isostatically pressed alumina graphite refractories to channel and 
control the flow of steel from ladle to tundish and from tundish to mould; slide-
gate refractories for furnace, ladle and tundish slide gate systems; temperature 
measurement and slag level detection, tundish and mould fluxes and control 
devices to monitor and regulate steel flow into the mould. These products have 
been designed to resist extreme thermo-mechanical stresses and corrosive 
environments. They must withstand temperature changes from ambient to 1,600ºC 
in just a few minutes, while resisting liquid steel and slag corrosion for many hours. 
The majority of these products are consumed during the process of making steel 
and some must be replaced frequently. Demand for Vesuvius’ products is thus 
primarily linked to steel production volumes.
Products of the Advanced Refractories product line include specialist 
refractory materials for lining steelmaking vessels such as blast furnaces, 
ladles and tundishes. These are in the form of both monolithics and, to a lesser 
extent, refractory shapes (e.g. bricks, pads and dams). Vesuvius is one of the 
world’s largest manufacturers of monolithic refractory linings for vessels subject to 
extreme temperatures, corrosion and abrasion. Key success factors in the Advanced 
Refractories product line are installation technologies, products adapted to fit 
customers’ processes and effective and efficient logistics services, these factors 
being successfully combined by Vesuvius’ R&D centres, its knowledge of customers’ 
processes and its project management capability.
STEEL FLOW CONTROL
2012 Revenue
£542m
End-Markets — 100% steel
Number of Employees
4,595
ADVANCED REFRACTORIES
2012 Revenue
£476m
End-Markets — 75% iron & steel
 — 25% process
  industries
Number of Employees
3,006
CMYK
Grey : 0 / 0 / 0 /85
Red : 0 / 100 / 96 / 0
Image: Monobloc MTSP 05
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
FOUNDRY
The foundry process is highly sequential and, similar to the continuous casting of 
steel, is critically dependent on consistency of quality and productivity optimisation. 
The Foundry division’s solutions allow foundries to reduce defects (and hence 
reduce labour-intensive fettling and cleaning), minimise metal usage requirements 
(hence reducing cost, energy usage and mould size), influence the metal 
solidification process (increasing metal performance and reducing the weight of 
pieces) and automate the moulding and casting process for gains in productivity 
and ease of reproduction.
Vesuvius, trading as Foseco, is a world leader in the supply of consumable 
products for use in the foundry casting industry. Foundry consumables typically 
make up less than 5% of the total cost of manufacturing a final casting, yet they 
are vital to the overall quality and yield. The conditioning of molten metal, the 
nature of the mould used and, especially, the design of the way metal flows into 
the mould are key parameters in a foundry, determining both the quality of the 
finished castings and the labour, energy and metal usage efficiency of the foundry. 
Vesuvius provides consumable products and associated services to foundries that 
improve these parameters.
CMYK
Grey : 0 / 0 / 0 /85
Red : 0 / 100 / 96 / 0
FOUNDRY 
2012 Revenue
£530m
End-Markets —  40% vehicles
 —  28% general engineering
 —  18% agriculture & mining
 —  14% other
Number of Employees
3,585
Image: Foundry Sleeves 06
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Message from our Chairman
It gives me great pleasure to introduce the first Annual Report & Accounts 
of Vesuvius plc.
Our new company is the result of a detailed strategic review by the Board of 
Cookson Group plc, which concluded that a separation of Cookson’s main 
businesses would be in the interests both of its shareholders and of those 
respective businesses. That separation took effect on 19 December 2012 
resulting in the creation of Vesuvius plc, comprising the Engineered Ceramics 
and Precious Metals Processing businesses of the old Cookson. Alent plc, 
which comprises Cookson’s other businesses, is now listed on the Stock 
Exchange in its own right and is run as an entirely separate business.
I was honoured to be asked to join the Board of Vesuvius and to serve as its 
first Chairman. Our company is a global leader in metal flow engineering, 
principally serving the steel and foundry industries. We enjoy clear market 
leadership in the majority of the industry segments we serve. We have 
operations in 30 countries worldwide, with almost half our revenues 
generated in developing markets. Our businesses are technology-led, 
innovation-focused, with an increasingly important service dimension. Our 
products and services are critical to our customers’ efficiency and therefore 
profitability. Our financial profile is strong, with a robust balance sheet and a 
flexible business model that has enabled the delivery of good levels of profit 
and cash over the cycle and in the face of changing market conditions. 
RESULTS
End-market trends in Vesuvius’ major steel and foundry markets were very 
challenging during the latter part of 2012. As a result, our performance 
in the second half was substantially below that of the first half, leading to 
pro forma headline earnings per share of 29.4 pence, down from the 41.0 
pence for 2011. In response to those difficult conditions, decisive action 
was taken throughout the business, involving significant cost reduction 
and the permanent closure of three facilities. Our flexible business model 
allows management to continue to respond as necessary without affecting 
the underlying strength of our businesses, meaning that our competitive 
position entering 2013 remained very strong. 
Since the year end we have announced the closure of our Solar Crucible 
business and also the disposal of our Precious Metals Processing division, 
enabling management to focus wholly on our core business of molten 
metal engineering serving the global steel and foundry industries.
DIVIDENDS
Dividends will play an important part in delivering superior returns to 
our shareholders. Vesuvius is an inherently cash generative and well-
invested business and we aim to deliver long-term dividend growth whilst 
taking account of underlying earnings, cash flows, capital expenditure 
requirements and the prevailing market outlook. 
As set out in our documentation relating to the demerger, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share. The final dividend, if 
approved at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on  
27 June to shareholders on the register at 17 May.
“We have 
assembled 
a highly 
experienced 
Board of 
Directors, 
committed to 
the highest 
standards 
of corporate 
governance, 
and benefit 
from a very 
strong executive 
management 
team led 
by François 
Wanecq.” 
JOHN McDONOUGH 07
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
RETURN OF CAPITAL
As a result of the disposal of our Precious Metals 
Processing division, the Board intends to return the 
majority of the net proceeds to shareholders through an 
on market repurchase of shares, demonstrating our desire 
to exercise strong capital discipline and generate superior 
returns. Our strong balance sheet and cash generation 
allows us to do this and remain able to fund attractive 
future growth opportunities.
BOARD AND GOVERNANCE
Since my appointment as Chairman, I have 
undertaken a thorough induction to the Company 
and its products and services. I have visited many of 
our major manufacturing and R&D Centres in China, 
Poland, Germany, Belgium and the United States, and 
met large numbers of our people.
We have assembled a highly experienced Board of 
Directors, committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
As previously announced, Jan Oosterveld and John 
Sussens will retire an Non-executive Directors at this 
year’s AGM. Both served as Non-executive Directors 
of Cookson for over eight years, and I am very 
grateful to them for their contribution to the creation 
of Vesuvius plc and for the continuity that they have 
provided.
John Sussens will be succeeded as Senior 
Independent Director by Jeff Hewitt and as Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee by Jane Hinckley, 
who was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
December 2012.
Nelda Connors was appointed to the Board as a Non-
executive Director on 1st March 2013 and Rachel 
Fell was replaced as Company Secretary by Richard 
Malthouse with effect from 21 March 2013 whilst 
she takes maternity leave. 
We will therefore go forward after the AGM in 2013 
with a slimmed down Board of seven Directors.
I have got to know our executive management team 
led by François Wanecq and am confident that we 
have a talented team in place to deliver our strategy.
The Board is responsible for setting Group strategy 
and charging the executive with the delivery of that 
strategy, including the management of resources 
and associated risks and controls. The Board has 
implemented a robust governance structure to 
manage those risks as described in the Governance 
Report on pages 64 to 99. Good corporate 
governance is central to the delivery of sustainable 
long-term shareholder value.
We have complied with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code throughout 2012 and continue 
to strive to evolve our governance arrangements to 
comply with emerging best practice.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Our 2013 AGM will be held on Tuesday 4 June 2013 
and the Notice of the Meeting and explanatory notes 
accompany this Annual Report. I look forward to the 
opportunity to meet our shareholders at the AGM.
OUR PEOPLE
The Company’s long-term success is dependent upon 
the diversity, dedication and commitment of all our 
people. We have invested in the development of our 
people and in succession planning. We have ensured 
that all our people share a common set of values. 
Leadership from the Board on corporate responsibility 
is important and paramount amongst the Board’s 
priorities is the safety and well-being of all our people 
and of the communities in which we operate. We 
have made further good progress on Health and 
Safety both in terms of safe working practices and the 
reporting of performance.
 
PROSPECTS
After many years as a division of a diversified group, 
and following months of intensive work on the 
demerger process, Vesuvius now stands to benefit 
significantly from being a stand-alone, wholly focused 
global leader in metal flow engineering. The markets 
we serve have long-term growth dynamics, and we 
are strongly positioned to leverage our significant 
presence in the world’s developing economies.
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE
Chairman
28 March 2013 08
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Cross section of ultra-high density refractory – Vesuvius R&D 09
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Message from our Chief Executive
The listing of Vesuvius plc on the London Stock Exchange, followed by the 
demerger of Alent plc, was the dominant event of 2012 for our company. 
The demerger process involved a heavy workload and occupied much of the 
time of the corporate teams, but it did not affect the focus of the operational 
crews, who instead had to cope with a downturn in their markets, which 
started around the middle of the year. This led to major restructuring to 
adapt our cost structure and increase the flexibility of our business.
Meanwhile the new strategy for Vesuvius, involving an increased focus on 
providing technical services, principally to the steel and foundry industries, 
was presented to the investment community during the demerger process 
and was well received. We have a focused Board with a number of new 
Directors, and clearly stated objectives — the long–term future is very 
promising.
THE EMERGENCE OF VESUVIUS PLC
Vesuvius is a global leader in metal casting engineering. Our profitable 
business model derives from a presence across the world at all major 
customers’ facilities. Vesuvius has established with them over the years 
a relationship of trust and partnership based on the true value we create 
in our customers’ processes with our unique technological product and 
service offering. 
This relationship of trust is essential, as we provide products and 
solutions that are on the critical path of the molten metal casting process 
with considerable impact on the safe and efficient performance of our 
customers’ plants.
Our new existence as an independent company allows us to concentrate 
our considerable assets and talented workforce on the development of this 
service offering to our customers with a clear message and total focus. Our 
strategy will be consistent and clear and our commitment to it will now be 
more evident to our customers, as well as to our shareholders.
Our business is well prepared to cope with the cyclicality of our end-
markets. While market growth rates were high for nearly a decade up 
to 2009, recent years have been more varied. Nonetheless, Vesuvius 
has been able to exceed the underlying growth rates of its end-markets 
over the long–term. This is due to our unique technological offering that 
brings value to our customers’ process and allows us to make continuous 
improvements to the consumable products and related systems which 
we supply. To a certain extent, our customers are more in need of our 
market-leading solutions when the market conditions they face are more 
challenging, as we ultimately bring more efficient and therefore more  
cost-effective solutions to our customers.
“Our primary 
objectives for 
the coming 
two years will 
be to retain a 
strong balance 
sheet, to restore 
our margins, 
to grow our 
presence in 
China and 
to develop 
our strategy 
dedicated 
to providing 
superior 
technical 
services for 
the steel 
and foundry 
industries.” 
FRANÇOIS WANECQ,  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 10
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Message from our Chief Executive 
continued
2012 MARKET EVOLUTION
After a promising start to the year, when the 
prospects of our steel and foundry end-markets 
appeared positive, by June there were clear signs 
that the economy was weakening. Whilst many 
commentators suggested this was due to a short-
term inventory adjustment, we saw in September 
a clear deterioration that led us to reduce our 
expectations for the full year. The downturn was 
particularly marked in Foundry and was principally 
related to the weakness of the car market in Europe 
and the truck market globally. As expected, steel 
markets slowed down as well. Overall, for the entire 
year, world steel production increased marginally, 
as it did in 2011; however, the geographic split of 
world steel production since 2008 has now stabilised 
in three distinct groups: China, which has grown by 
40% since 2008; Europe and NAFTA, which declined 
by close to 20% over the same period; and the rest 
of the world, which has stayed around the same level 
as seen in 2008.
THE SOLAR MARKET 
During 2012 the market for the production of 
solar panels did not recover. Whilst the installation 
of solar panels around the world, especially in 
Germany, continued at a high level, the inventories 
accumulated in previous years and the overcapacity 
affecting all segments of the supply chain have 
continued to weigh on prices for the moderate 
volumes of Solar Crucibles sold. In addition, the 
substantial reduction of government subsidies for 
renewable energy projects is expected to act as a 
drag on the market going forward. Furthermore, the 
decrease of energy prices in the USA due to increased 
shale gas availability may discourage the appetite for 
renewable energy supplies in the USA and elsewhere. 
As a result of these various market forces, early in 
2013 the Board decided regretfully to exit the Solar 
Crucible business.
A RAPID ADAPTATION TO MARKET CHANGES 
When the first signs of a slowdown began 
appearing in June, we prepared an action plan that 
was triggered in September when the continued 
downward trend was confirmed. During the last four 
months of 2012 we closed or sold five plants (three 
manufacturing Solar Crucibles, and two in the Steel 
division) and secured the sale of one low-margin 
construction business. Headcount was reduced by 
850 (close to 8%) in the second half of the year; we 
also activated many flexible employment agreements 
which had been negotiated following the crisis 
of 2008/2009 to reduce employment costs whilst 
avoiding the permanent loss of skilled workers.
During the same period, we reduced capital 
expenditure and developed a Group-wide programme 
of inventory reductions that has allowed us to reduce 
our net working capital in the year. Cost control 
and cash generation will remain at the centre of 
our management actions in 2013 to maintain our 
flexibility and restore our margins.
OVERVIEW OF GROUP RESULTS
With the trading results of Alent and the Precious 
Metals Processing division being reported as 
discontinued operations for 2012, Group revenue 
from continuing operations in 2012 of £1,548 million 
was 8% lower than 2011 on an as reported basis 
and 4% lower on an underlying basis, which adjusts 
for the SERT and Metallurgica acquisitions in 2011 
and 2012 respectively, the sale in 2012 of the low-
margin Andreco-Hurll business and foreign exchange 
differences. The underlying decline in revenue reflects 
the marked slowdown in trading in the second 
half of the year, when steel production in the key 
markets of the EU and North America fell by almost 
10% compared to the first half; but also reflects 
the ongoing strategy to exit lower-margin business 
and a 2% reduction due to further erosion in Solar 
Crucibles revenue. 
 
Trading profit from continuing operations of  
£133.0 million was 27% lower than that reported 
in 2011, reflecting the lower revenues, Solar 
Crucible losses and increased bad debts. Without 
Solar Crucibles and the higher bad debt charge, 
the reduction would have been 16%. The Group’s 
reported return on sales margin from continuing 
operations was 8.6%, down from 10.9% in 2011.
A NEW STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
In November we presented to the investor 
community our ambitions for Vesuvius plc, with a 
strategy designed to deliver superior returns to our 
shareholders built around five key objectives:
 ❯ maintaining our existing technology leadership 
position;
 ❯ enlarging our addressable market through the 
penetration of product and service solutions;
GROUP 
REVENUE*
£m
1,392
2008
1,131
2009
1,495
2010
1,686
2011
1,548
2012
GROUP 
TRADING PROFIT* 
£m
176.8
2008
60.6
2009
170.8
2010
183.5
2011
133.0
2012
* Headline performance 11
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
 ❯ leveraging our strong positions in developing 
markets to capture growth;
 ❯ improving cost leadership and margins;
 ❯ building a comprehensive offering in metal 
casting engineering;
– and to achieve these whilst maintaining a rigorous 
focus on cash flow generation.
This strategy is being rigorously implemented, as 
evidenced by a number of recent developments. For 
example, we will be building three new research 
centres in the next two years in Pittsburgh, US, 
Enschede, the Netherlands and Visakhaptnam, India.
We have also recently succeeded in achieving the 
first industrial installation of our innovative robotic 
tundish technology in Hyundai (Korea) and we have 
already introduced 12 of our Initek systems, for the 
computer-controlled inoculation of ductile iron, since 
bringing this new technology concept to market 
globally in 2010. 
In China, we have completely reorganised our 
local structure to give more autonomy to our local 
management and to accelerate expansion whilst at 
the same time developing a business model based 
on the superior quality and performance with which 
Vesuvius has succeeded in all other parts of the 
world. In Brazil and in the Middle East we have 
gained significant market share.
Furthermore, we have reduced our cost base and 
improved our productivity through a Group-wide 
Lean Manufacturing initiative.
Overall, we are building a strategy directed towards 
providing superior technical services for the steel and 
foundry industries based on our constant presence at 
customers’ sites, our intimate knowledge of all processes 
industry-wide and our growing expertise in real time 
data capture and interpretation. This fundamental 
business initiative is aimed at developing the Group to 
be less capital-intensive and with better margins, putting 
technology leadership at the core of everything we do.
PRECIOUS METALS PROCESSING
We have been exiting businesses that are not core to 
our strategy — Precious Metals Processing comes into 
that definition. It is a good business, with healthy market 
positions and a strong management team, but it is not 
aligned with our future strategic direction. We are now in 
the process of disposing of this business to Possehl mbH, 
for whom the business will be more complementary. This 
will leave Vesuvius with a much clearer focus on its core 
areas of technological leadership and end-markets, with 
the objective to grow as the global leader in metal casting 
solutions and services. 
OUTLOOK
We currently expect the trading environment during the 
first half of 2013 to be broadly similar to that experienced 
in the second half of 2012, with some improvement in 
general market conditions anticipated later in the year .
Following the significant restructuring of our operations 
and disposals, we anticipate that Group revenue in 2013 
will be lower than in 2012. The expected disposal of 
Precious Metals Processing will enable Vesuvius to focus 
primarily on the steel and foundry markets. 
We have undertaken a range of self-help actions 
to adjust our business to the current trading 
environment and to increase our operational 
flexibility. We expect the benefits of these actions 
to start to drive a recovery in our trading margins 
towards the end of 2013.
Our primary objectives for the coming two years 
will be to retain a strong balance sheet, to restore 
our margins, to grow our presence in China and to 
develop our strategy dedicated to providing superior 
technical services for the steel and foundry industries.
 
FRANÇOIS WANECQ
Chief Executive 
28 March 2013
2012 REVENUE  
BY CUSTOMER LOCATION*
n EUROPE  33%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  29%
n NAFTA  25%
n ROW  13%
2012 REVENUE  
BY OPERATING LOCATION*
n EUROPE  41%
n NAFTA  25%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  23%
n ROW  11%
* Headline performance 12
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
1.2.3.4. 13
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
The Vesuvius  
business model
We operate a profitable, flexible and growth-
generating business model.
This model has been developed and refined over 
many years, within both Vesuvius and Foseco, to build 
the brand equity of our products through reliability, 
technology and service.
The foundation of our business model is our 
worldwide presence, with our industry experts 
embedded at most customer locations, ideally 
placed to identify potential process improvements in 
cooperation with customers. 
Our model is supported by our technology centres 
which develop solutions involving engineered systems 
and high-value consumables.
These solutions are industrialised in our low-cost, 
dispersed manufacturing system within which we are 
located close to our customers’ facilities.
This allows us to supply customers on a reliable, 
just-in-time and highly competitive basis, essential for 
consumable goods involved on the critical path of our 
customers’ process.
Thanks to our global presence, these products 
are serviced at our customers’ facilities with the 
permanent presence of our industry experts.
Our business model:
 ❯ is resilient to end-market cycles due to the 
flexibility of our diversified manufacturing 
footprint and adjustable cost base;
 ❯ is profitable, as it allows value pricing for bespoke 
products; and
 ❯ generates growth, as we can enlarge the 
accessible market with additional innovative 
products and solutions.
>15 year average  
customer relationships
c.2/3 of manufacturing  
sites in developing countries
>200 technical experts 
at customer locations
>100 PhDs and engineers
Professional  
after-sales service
Technical support  
over the life  
of contracts
Global  
presence
Service 
& consistency
Advanced  
technology 
knowledge
Optimised 
manufacturing  
footprint
Directed innovation
Development
of value adding 
engineered solutions 
that command 
consumption 
of bespoke products
Market manufacturing
Identiﬁcation of valuable 
sales opportunities
Reliable 
“Just-in-Time” supply 
through Lean 
Manufacturing
4
3
1
2 14
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
GLOBAL  
PRESENCE
ADVANCED  
TECHNOLOGY 
KNOWLEDGE
Vesuvius is present in all six continents, with 
manufacturing capability within all the main steel 
and foundry markets. As we sell consumables that 
are critical to the processes of our customers, we 
commit to supply into our major end-markets from 
trucking distance. For the last forty years, Vesuvius 
has supported the development of global steel 
and foundry manufacturing processes with new 
technologies. Everywhere in the world, new steel 
and foundry plants have been commissioned with 
Vesuvius and Foseco products to create the best 
conditions for a successful start. To facilitate this, 
Vesuvius has established manufacturing plants 
in emerging countries from the very beginning of 
their industrialisation. The breadth and depth of the 
experience and expertise we have developed over 
these years with our customers is peerless. 
Our knowledge of end-market processes, specifications 
and techniques around the world gives our experts 
a unique ability to support our customers no matter 
what their required configurations. This has contributed 
to the trust built with our customers in the reliability 
of our service and assistance. Local manufacturing, 
local expertise, and leveraging a global knowledge 
of our customers’ processes gives Vesuvius a special 
relationship with its customers, to help them optimise 
their process and their product performance. 
To support our global presence, we hire and train 
local engineers in most developing countries, who 
are then progressively integrated within the Vesuvius 
network of experts and offered international careers. 
These technical experts become partners of their 
local customers and help them meet their aims 
for continuous improvement, whilst maintaining 
the utmost level of reliability. Through this close 
technical relationship, we can identify together new 
development opportunities to create value in the 
customer’s process.
The ability to support our customers’ development 
and to anticipate their future needs results from 
the capacity of our Research and Development 
centres to leverage their knowledge in the most 
advanced ceramic and metallurgical techniques. 
Our laboratories are equipped with state-of-the-
art equipment and utilise the most advanced 
technologies of simulation and finite element analysis 
to simulate the behaviour of molten metal in a 
customer’s specific equipment configuration. Our 
three central laboratories explore the fundamental 
aspects of the casting process with the most 
sophisticated equipment, whilst our eight local 
development centres feed on these fundamental 
findings and elaborate custom-designed, customer-
specific solutions that will create value for our 
customers and help them differentiate from 
competition.
SIX RESEARCH CENTRES AND  
EIGHT DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
EMPLOYING MORE THAN 100 PhDs  
AND ENGINEERS
These innovations can then be tested at the 
customer’s facility with the highest level of confidence 
in their suitability, based on Vesuvius experience and 
on past success.
1. 2. 15
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
ADVANCED  
TECHNOLOGY 
KNOWLEDGE
OPTIMISED 
MANUFACTURING 
FOOTPRINT
SERVICE &  
CONSISTENCY
When successfully tested, our products can be 
manufactured at a short distance from our customers’ 
plants, guaranteeing just-in-time delivery and a 
competitive cost. To enable us to supply most 
customers from trucking distance, we optimize our 
cost competitiveness by investing in the lowest cost 
production site in a given area and, together with the 
large volume of pieces we produce, this provides our 
customers with the best balance between value and 
cost for our high technology solutions.
Being global, we can ensure a local service to our 
customers, including the management of an optimal 
level of inventories at their location, high quality 
technical support and a unique capacity to be 
reactive in modifying our production and supply of 
product and service to reflect any unexpected change 
in customers’ requirements.
This high level of service relies on our technicians’ 
presence permanently on the customers’ shop floor, 
leveraging their worldwide expertise accumulated in 
Vesuvius over many years. 
EVOLUTION OF NUMBER OF PLANTS AND 
PEOPLE OVER TEN YEARS
HEAD-COUNT
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
8,406
2002 2012
12,244
2,740
6,302
1,098
4,844
5,650
n Developed market n Emerging Market n JVs
3. 4.
SSAB EMEA most valued 
supplier award 2011
AK Steel sets world 
casting record — 
Vesuvius valued partner in 
this achievement
Vesuvius is key partner 
of the world’s first 
automated ladle operation
RECENT RECOGNITION
EVOLUTION OF NUMBER OF PLANTS AND 
PEOPLE OVER TEN YEARS
SITE LOCATIONS
100
80
60
40
20
0
78
2002 2012
72
23
36
34
55
n Developed market n Emerging Market n JVs 16
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Continuous Slab Caster in operation 17
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Steel
OPERATING REVIEW
VESUVIUS IN THE STEEL INDUSTRY
Vesuvius assists steel makers to enhance the quality 
of their products, increase their competitiveness 
and reduce their environmental footprint. We 
achieve this by working closely with our customers 
to develop customised refractory systems, services 
and technologies that enable them to improve their 
performance.
Vesuvius supplies the global steel industry with 
consumable ceramic ‘flow control’ and ‘advanced 
refractory’ materials.
Flow control products are used to contain and control 
the flow of molten steel in the enclosed continuous 
casting and ingot casting processes. The continuous 
casting process enables steel manufactured in a blast 
furnace or electric arc furnace to be cast directly 
into blooms or slabs without interruption (i.e. be 
continuously cast) and to remain protected from 
the atmosphere between tundish and mould (i.e. be 
enclosed).
Vesuvius products have a short service life (often a 
matter of a few hours) due to the significant wear 
caused by the high temperature, high thermal cycling 
and the erosive and corrosive environment in which 
they operate. The quality of these products impacts 
both on the quality of the finished metal being 
produced and also the productivity, profitability and 
safety of the customer’s process. They represent a 
relatively small proportion of the input costs of our 
customers (e.g. less than 1% for a steel producer) 
but their performance is critical to their production 
processes. Therefore, customers demand high quality 
and consistent products for these most demanding 
applications to ensure maximum safety, quality and 
productivity. Vesuvius is a clear global leader in the 
‘metal flow’ market.
Vesuvius also supplies the steel industry and other 
process industries with advanced refractory materials 
used for lining vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles 
and tundishes to enable them to withstand high 
temperatures and/or corrosive attack. These refractory 
lining materials may be supplied in the form of 
powder mixes, which are spray-applied onto the 
vessels to be lined (“monolithics”) or in pre-cast 
shapes and bricks.
As both flow control and advanced refractory 
products are consumables, steel production volumes 
and, in particular, production of higher quality steels 
using the enclosed continuous casting process, is the 
critical driver of demand for Vesuvius steel-related 
products. Further, steel producers are continually 
striving to enhance the enclosed continuous casting 
process in order to improve production through less 
downtime and reduced labour costs, increased steel 
quality, reduced reworking through thinner slab 
casting and reduced energy usage.
Vesuvius has developed close, collaborative 
relationships with industry-leading customers and 
OEMs and, due to the specialised nature of its 
products and the high volume in which they are 
consumed, has developed a global network closely 
aligned with its customers’ locations, with 72 major 
manufacturing facilities across the world. 
Customers of the Steel business are principally 
steel producers themselves, but also include the 
manufacturers of steel production equipment. Around 
10% to 15% of revenues in the Steel division arise 
from non steel-related process industries supplied by 
the Advanced Refractories product line.
Image: Robotic Casting 
Technology (RCT)
Image: SERT Stopper  
Rigging & Stopper 18
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
THE VESUVIUS PRODUCT OFFERING
Vesuvius’ products are highly specialised ceramics, 
including shrouds, stoppers, nozzles, slide gates, 
lining refractories (monolithic and pre-cast) and fluxes 
for the steel production industry. The two product 
lines which comprise the Steel division are Steel 
Flow Control and Advanced Refractories. In addition, 
technical and application expertise is a significant 
part of the product offering.
STEEL FLOW CONTROL
Steel Flow Control products supplied by Vesuvius 
include: the Viso™, isostatically pressed alumina 
graphite and VAPEX® extruded clay graphite 
product ranges, including ladle shrouds, stopper 
rods, submerged entry nozzles and shrouds to 
channel and control the flow of steel from ladle 
to tundish and from tundish to mould; slide-gate 
refractories, including nozzles, plates and speciality 
shapes for furnace, ladle and tundish slide gate 
systems; Accumetrix® temperature measurement 
and RADAR™ slag level detection, tundish and 
mould fluxes, purging systems and control devices 
to monitor and regulate steel flow into the mould. 
These products have been designed to resist 
Steel
OPERATING REVIEW
VESUVIUS PRODUCTS
Advanced Refractories in TURQUOISE text
Steel Flow Control in PURPLE text
Tap-hole Sleeve
EBT Taphole Assembly
Bottom Stirring Element
Purge Plug
Tundish Stopper
Tundish Tube Changer
Mould Level Control
Tundish Gas Diffuser
Tundish Shroud
Tundish Slide Gate
Turbostop
Robotic Casting Technology (RCT)
Ladle Shroud
Ladle Tube Changer (LTC)
Well Nozzle
Lining
Lining
Lining
FURNACE
MOULD
TUNDISH
LADLE 19
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
extreme thermo-mechanical stresses and corrosive 
environments. They must withstand temperature 
changes from ambient to 1,600ºC in just a few 
minutes, while resisting liquid steel and slag corrosion 
for many hours. In addition, the ceramic parts in 
contact with the liquid steel must not in any way 
contaminate it. To bring all of these characteristics 
together in the same products, Vesuvius has 
designed composite parts combining a variety of 
special materials. The majority of these products 
are consumed during the process of making steel 
and some must be replaced frequently. Demand for 
Vesuvius’ products is thus primarily linked to steel 
production volumes.
ADVANCED REFRACTORIES
Products include specialist refractory materials for 
lining steelmaking vessels such as blast furnaces, 
ladles and tundishes. These are in the form of both 
monolithics and, to a lesser extent, refractory shapes 
(e.g. bricks, pads and dams). These linings have 
applications in coke ovens, hot blast stoves, blast 
furnaces, transfer ladles, basic oxygen furnaces, 
tundishes, reheating furnaces and electric arc 
furnaces.
Vesuvius is one of the world’s largest manufacturers 
of monolithic refractory linings for vessels subject 
to extreme temperatures, corrosion and abrasion. 
Their outer shell needs to be protected, either by 
water cooling or by a layer of refractory material. The 
latter is more energy-efficient and therefore the most 
widespread solution.
Key success factors in the Advanced Refractories 
product line are installation technologies, products 
adapted to fit customers’ processes and effective 
and efficient logistics services, these factors being 
successfully combined by Vesuvius’ R&D centres, its 
knowledge of customers’ processes and its project 
management capability.
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW IN 2012
According to the World Steel Association (“WSA”) 
global steel production grew 1.2% in 2012 to 1,548 
megatonnes (“Mt”), with China experiencing growth 
of 4.7% to 717Mt; global production excluding China 
shrank by 0.2%. The growth came mainly from Asia 
and North America while crude steel production in 
the European Union and South America decreased 
compared with 2011. Asia’s share of world steel 
production, driven predominantly by China, increased 
slightly from 64.5% to 65.4% in 2012.
STEEL DIVISION PERFORMANCE IN 2012
Within the Steel division, there are two principal 
product lines, Steel Flow Control and Advanced 
Refractories. In 2012, the Steel division’s revenue of 
£1,018 million comprised £542 million for Steel Flow 
Control and £476 million for Advanced Refractories.
STEEL FLOW CONTROL
Global steel production represents almost 100% 
of the end-market for Steel Flow Control products 
and services. There is therefore a strong correlation 
between steel production and Steel Flow Control 
revenues. Whilst global steel production in the first 
half of the year was approximately 1% higher than 
the first half of 2011, from September onwards there 
was a weakening in steel production. This resulted 
in lower Steel Flow Control revenues, particularly in 
Europe, Brazil and the USA.
Revenue of £542 million was 2% higher compared 
with 2011. On an underlying basis (being revenue 
at constant exchange rates and adjusted for 
the acquisitions of SERT in November 2011 and 
Metallurgica in March 2012), revenue was down 2% 
on the prior year. 
Price increases were implemented in 2012, but these 
increases have still not fully compensated for the 
escalation of raw material prices in 2011. However, 
whilst the latter prices are still higher, particularly for 
graphite and zirconia, they have remained relatively 
stable during 2012. 
STEEL 
REVENUE 
£m
866
2008
753
2009
980
2010
1,078
2011
1,018
2012
STEEL 
TRADING PROFIT  
£m
98.3
2008
48.9
2009
103.4
2010
107.2
2011
83.8
2012 20
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Steel
OPERATING REVIEW
The Steel Flow Control results have been negatively 
impacted by reserves for specific potential bad debts 
totalling £3 million, including £2 million relating 
to one of its US customers, which filed for Chapter 
Eleven bankruptcy protection in May 2012. 
The acquisition of Metallurgica was completed on 
29 March 2012. Metallurgica is one of the world’s 
leading suppliers of mould flux used alongside 
refractory products in the enclosed continuous steel 
casting process. The business has been integrated 
into the Steel Flow Control product line and 
made a positive contribution in 2012, in line with 
expectations. 
Integration of both SERT and Metallurgica continues 
with increasing benefits from the elimination of 
agents and commercial responsibility being absorbed 
by the Vesuvius commercial organisation. In the USA 
this has allowed us to secure a number of upgrades 
to Flow Control Systems at thin slab casters. 
We have continued to focus our efforts on developing 
innovative technical solutions around the continuous 
caster. The latest robot compatible Tundish Tube 
Changer (SEM3085) and the first products of our new 
Robotic Casting Technology (“RCT”) range have been 
launched with contracts already secured in Europe, 
Asia, South America and the USA.
We have also successfully launched our innovative 
new concept Ladle Slidegate (LT80) which offers a 
‘Plug & Play’ replacement for existing Flow Control 
Systems.
Construction associated with the project to double 
the capacity of the existing facility in Trinec, Czech 
Republic to service more effectively the Eastern 
Europe and CIS steel market is complete. Equipment 
installation, commissioning and production ramp-up 
is ongoing. The new facility in Brazil to improve the 
efficiency of raw material processing and sourcing 
is also progressing well and is on schedule to be 
operational during 2013. 
ADVANCED REFRACTORIES
Global iron and steel production represents more 
than 75% of the end-markets for Advanced 
Refractory’s products and services, with the remainder 
arising from a variety of non-steel markets including 
the cement, lime, aluminium, power generation, 
petrochemical and waste incineration industries. 
Revenue of £476 million represented a 10% decrease 
compared with 2011 at constant exchange rates. The 
decrease in revenue was wholly due to a reduction 
in revenue in Andreco-Hurll, the refractory lining 
installation operation based in Australia, and a 
conscious effort to exit low-margin business in other 
regions. As part of the division’s strategy of exiting 
low-margin businesses, on 24 July 2012, Andreco-
Hurll was sold to Veolia Environmental Services for 
a cash consideration of approximately Aus$8 million 
(£5 million). In the first half of 2012, Andreco-Hurll 
had revenue of £12 million and a trading profit of 
£0.6 million. Andreco-Hurll revenue in 2011 was 
£57 million. Excluding the Andreco-Hurll business, 
revenue in 2012 decreased 1% over 2011. While the 
installation market has been exited, a refractories 
manufacturing and sales business has been retained 
in Australia, with investment being made in a new 
production facility. 
STEEL 
RETURN ON SALES  
%
11.4
2008
6.5
2009
10.6
2010
9.9
2011
8.2
2012
STEEL 
REVENUE BY 
LOCATION OF CUSTOMER
n NAFTA  31%
n EUROPE  30%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  25%
n ROW  14% 21
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Raw material prices, notably for dead-burned 
magnesite — the single most important raw material 
for Advanced Refractories — were largely stable 
during 2012, following large increases in 2011. The 
stability of the pricing was due to a large strategic 
purchase of magnesite, with some of the increase 
in inventory offset by negotiated extended payment 
terms.
In addition to the new investment in Australia, a 
new monolithic Advanced Refractory facility was 
completed towards the end of 2012 in Ras Al 
Khaimah, United Arab Emirates at a total cost of 
£4 million and will serve the fast-growing Middle 
East market. Local production will facilitate greater 
penetration of the Advanced Refractories product line 
allowing short lead times and production flexibility. 
An investment was made in the USA to increase 
capacity by 50% in ELBY production, the 
revolutionary patented concept of producing cleaner 
steel and improving customer output yield by up to 
2%, as well as reducing the endemic problem steel 
mills face downgrading steel when producing short-
run specialised steels.
In addition, restructuring of the sales and marketing 
teams in South America, North America and Europe 
was introduced towards the end of the year, which 
will bear fruit in 2013. As well as restructuring and 
management changes, technical and marketing 
training was also reinvigorated.
Selling price increases were achieved in line with 
inflation and no margin loss was experienced due 
to cost increases. Overall, margin percentage for the 
business increased, although some of this increase 
was offset as a result of sales reducing by £53 
million. The first half of 2012 had shown very positive 
results, but the sudden downturn in the second half 
of the year affected overhead recovery and thus 
reduced second half margins. Operating costs include 
a bad debt charge of £6 million.
Image: ELBY
TM
 (Enhanced  
Ladle Bottom Yield)
Image: Turbostop
TM 22
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Vesuvius foundry Research and Development centre – Borken Germany 23
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Foundry
OPERATING REVIEW
VESUVIUS IN THE FOUNDRY INDUSTRY
The Foundry division has two principal product lines: 
Foundry Technologies and Fused Silica. 
Foseco, the Foundry Technologies business of 
Vesuvius generating 32% of total Group revenue, 
is focused on the global foundry industry which 
produces castings used in a wide variety of 
engineered products. Some 40% of castings (and a 
similar percentage of the revenue for the Foundry 
Technologies product line) is produced for the 
vehicle sector, comprising approximately 25% for 
cars and light trucks (“automotive”) and 15% for 
heavy trucks. Other end-markets for foundry castings 
include construction, agriculture, mining machinery, 
power generation equipment, railroad and general 
engineering. Foseco is a world leader in the supply 
of consumable products and services to the foundry 
industry. These products typically represent less than 
5% of a foundry’s production cost, but contribute 
significantly to improving both product quality 
and manufacturing efficiency whilst reducing the 
environmental impact of the casting process.
Customers of the Foundry division include the 
world’s major automotive OEMs, truck producers and 
manufacturers of construction, railroad and mining 
equipment. The foundry market is highly fragmented 
and Vesuvius’ 15 largest foundry customers represented 
12% of the division’s revenue in 2012. 
Potential revenue per customer and per tonne of 
casting produced is strongly influenced by the technical 
sophistication of the casting and the process used in its 
production. These factors tend to correlate with the level 
of industrial development of the market and therefore 
Vesuvius sees significant growth opportunities as 
industrial development occurs in certain parts of Eastern 
Europe and Asia.
Image: Foundry filter
Image: Foundry sleeve 24
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Foundry
OPERATING REVIEW
THE VESUVIUS PRODUCT OFFERING
FOUNDRY TECHNOLOGIES
Foseco’s products are largely single-use by nature, 
as they are either consumed or transformed during 
contact with the molten metal during casting. In 
a typical foundry process, these products may be 
used in the melting shop, core shop, moulding line 
and pouring stages. Using the chemical binders and 
refractory “paints” of Foseco, the customer foundries 
prepare the sand moulds and cores, the quality of 
which determines the precision and surface finish of 
the final casting. As liquid metal is transferred from the 
melting furnace to the casting line, it may be in contact 
with the molten metal transfer products of Vesuvius, 
such as insulating ladle linings, and be modified 
and conditioned by metal treatment equipment and 
additives. Foseco’s ceramic filters are used within the 
mould to remove impurities and reduce turbulence 
during pouring, thereby reducing scrap and improving 
the mechanical properties of the finished casting. Its 
feeding systems are also important in the reduction 
of material waste and improvement of casting quality: 
its exothermic feeding aids may be employed in the 
mould to provide secondary heat sources that can 
control cooling, minimising the adverse effects of 
shrinkage during solidification, helping to optimise the 
yield and the quality of the finished casting.
Revenue for the Foundry Technologies product line 
is broadly split by end-market as follows: general 
engineering 28%, light vehicles 25%, construction, 
agriculture and mining 18%, medium and heavy vehicles 
15%, railroad 4%, pipes and fittings 2% and other 8%.
FUSED SILICA
Vesuvius is one of the world’s leading manufacturers 
of fused silica refractory products. Its Zyarock® fused 
silica product range is used in a wide variety of  
highly - demanding industrial applications, such 
as glass melting and transformation and steel and 
aluminium casting. 
Vesuvius also supplies a wide range of fused silica 
refractories for the manufacture of flat glass and 
the shaping of safety glass for the automotive and 
architectural industries.
Mould Preparation
Mould and Core 
Assembly
Core Production
Melting and Metal 
Treatment
Simplified Ferrous Foundry Process
Fettling and Cleaning
Pouring Ladle
Finished Casting
Solidification 25
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW IN 2012
The foundry market has historically grown broadly in 
line with GDP . 
In 2012, following a relatively strong first quarter, 
a general slowdown in the foundry market started 
to become evident towards the end of the second 
quarter and there were indications of a further 
general slowdown through the third quarter. More 
specifically, after a strong first half the NAFTA 
railroad foundry industry began to slow down. The 
Brazilian foundry industry had a weak first-half – 
the truck industry upgraded from Euro III to Euro 
V environmental specification engines. However, it 
took time for excess inventory of Euro III engines 
to be sold and, at the same time, the higher 
specification diesel fuel for Euro V engines was not 
widely available, with the result that sales of Euro V 
trucks fell significantly. However, by the second half 
inventory was being reduced and fuel availability 
improved, resulting in a gradual recovery of the truck 
foundry sector.
In Europe, after a firm first quarter, truck and wind 
power activity reduced with an adverse impact on the 
foundries reliant on those end-markets. The situation 
did not improve throughout the remainder of the 
year, but some improvements are expected in the 
second half of 2013. 
The Indian foundry industry, largely reliant on 
domestic demand and automotive component 
exports to Europe, stagnated as power availability in 
the southern states reduced industrial activity and the 
government dramatically scaled back infrastructure 
projects, historically a strong driver of construction 
activity.
The Japanese automotive market, having suffered 
badly in 2011 from the effects of the tsunami 
in March of that year, followed by supply chain 
disruption in the fourth quarter from severe flooding 
in Thailand, which is the principal source of wiring 
harnesses for Japanese automotive OEMs, recovered 
with a total production of 8.5 million cars up from 
7.2 million in 2011. However, the construction 
equipment segment suffered a severe downturn 
during the second half of 2012, as political tension 
between Japan and China, as well as a reduction in 
China infrastructure spend, reduced machinery and 
component exports to China.
The Chinese foundry industry suffered a contraction 
starting mid-2011 across all segments, as 
government attempts to restrain an overheated 
economy took effect. Increases in both fuel and 
interest rates further reduced car and truck sales. 
Some recovery was evident during 2012 as 
automotive production picked - up and, following 
the change in political leadership at the end of 2012, 
the indications are for a recovery in industrial activity 
during 2013.
FOUNDRY DIVISION PERFORMANCE IN 2012
The division comprises principally the Foundry 
Technologies product line, together with the much 
smaller Fused Silica product line. In 2012, the 
division’s revenue of £530 million was split – £488 
million for Foundry Technologies and £42 million for 
Fused Silica.
FOUNDRY TECHNOLOGIES
Revenue of £488 million represented a 7% reduction 
compared with 2011 (down 3% at constant 
exchange rates). Overall the year was one in which 
the end-markets served by the division’s customers 
deteriorated with the result that foundry industry 
profit ratios and cash flows suffered. Selling prices 
throughout the supply chain came under intense 
pressure, but the strength of Foseco’s differentiated 
offering and customer relationships protected the 
business from its worst effects. However, some 
margin dilution did occur due to the difficulties in 
transferring the input cost increases of 2011 into 
selling price increases.
In a number of markets, China, India and Southern 
Europe in particular, weakened customer liquidity 
lengthened payment terms. However, once again, 
the strength of Foseco’s market position and its 
disciplined receivables management systems meant 
that the effect was modest.
FOUNDRY 
REVENUE  
£m
526
2008
378
2009
515
2010
608
2011
530
2012
FOUNDRY 
TRADING PROFIT  
£m
78.5
2008
11.7
2009
67.4
2010
76.3
2011
49.2
2012 26
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Foundry
OPERATING REVIEW
On a more positive note, the year witnessed many 
important steps forward in the implementation of the 
Foundry strategy:
 ❯ The project to expand manufacturing operations 
in China continued with the purchase of a 
greenfield site in the Changshu chemical park 
(55 miles north-west of Shanghai) expected to be 
completed by the second quarter of 2013. On this 
site a new feeding systems and coatings plant will 
be constructed for commissioning in 2014. The 
total investment in these new facilities is around 
£13 million, spread over the next two and a half 
years.
 ❯ Molten metal filter manufacturing was established 
in the existing site in Suzhou, China to serve both 
the domestic market and South East Asia.
 ❯ The Board approved the establishment of a 
dedicated central research and development 
facility in Enschede, the Netherlands, close to 
the Group’s existing manufacturing facilities 
in the Netherlands and Germany. The site will 
be established as a dedicated R & D facility for 
foundry consumables and will include molten 
metal test facilities.
 ❯ The central marketing & technology team was 
significantly strengthened during the year with 
the objectives of increasing the level of research 
and development activity, of ensuring the rapid 
commercialisation of new products and of 
providing greater support to emerging markets.
 ❯ The Foundry division is led by the Foundry 
Executive Committee (“FEC”) and during the 
year a number of changes took place. The chief 
executive of the China business took on the 
role of global Foundry Finance Director, bringing 
valuable knowledge of emerging markets to 
the FEC. A new FEC position of Vice President 
Greater China was created to ensure that this 
most important growth opportunity is represented 
in the FEC — the position was filled by the Area 
Director of Central Europe/Middle-East, which in 
turn brought to the Chinese business someone 
with strong connections to the European 
foundry industry — the origin of a considerable 
proportion of foreign direct investment into the 
Chinese foundry industry. The Vice President 
Europe was promoted into a position in the Steel 
division and was replaced by a senior executive 
transferring from the Fused Silica product line 
with considerable experience of technology-based 
industrial businesses. These changes highlight 
an important strength of Vesuvius — a cadre of 
geographically mobile senior executives whose 
skills are transferable across the Group, thereby 
facilitating the transfer of best practices and the 
Group’s value-based culture.
Image: Foundry crucible 27
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
FUSED SILICA 
The Fused Silica product line represents less than  
3% of Vesuvius’ continuing revenue. Revenue of  
£42 million represented a 46% decrease compared 
with 2011. 
For glass tempering rollers and other speciality 
products used in the manufacture of glass, revenue 
decreased 8% compared to the first half of 2011.
The reduction in demand for Solar Crucibles led to 
the trading losses in the Fused Silica product line 
in the second half of 2011 continuing into 2012. 
Since mid-2011 customers have, as previously 
reported, significantly cut production in response to 
excess global inventories of finished solar panels. 
In particular, the product line’s largest customer in 
Europe announced in April 2012 the permanent 
closure of its Norwegian production facilities. 
Although steps were taken during the period to adapt 
to these market conditions by removing temporary 
workers, adopting some short-time working 
arrangements in Europe and by some permanent 
workforce reductions in the Chinese operations, the 
Solar Crucible product line incurred trading losses 
of £6 million in the first half of 2012 compared to a 
trading profit of £6 million in the first half of 2011.
In July, the Solar Crucible production facility in 
Moravia in the Czech Republic was closed. This 
restructuring involved a headcount reduction of 
approximately 100 and resulted in total costs of £12 
million. In October, in view of the continued weakness 
in the end-market, it was also decided to close one of 
the two Chinese Solar Crucible production facilities, 
which resulted in a total restructuring charge of 
£20 million. Further action was taken in December 
2012, with the decision to close the Solar Crucible 
manufacturing facility in Poland, resulting in a 
restructuring charge of £9 million.
Subsequent to the year-end, the Board decided to 
close its remaining Solar Crucible manufacturing 
operations. The impairment of the Group’s remaining 
Solar Crucible assets which this decision brought 
about was reported in 2012 as an additional 
exceptional restructuring charge of £5 million. 
Image: SERT UCERAM Pouring 
System for automated  
iron foundries
FOUNDRY 
RETURN ON SALES  
%
14.9
2008
3.1
2009
13.1
2010
12.6
2011
9.3
2012
FOUNDRY 
REVENUE BY 
LOCATION OF CUSTOMER
n EUROPE  39%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  35%
n NAFTA  14%
n ROW  12% 28
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
CREATIVITY
Our commitment to technology and quality is 
the basis for our competitive advantage: our 
creativity is what allows us to develop innovative 
solutions that generate value through performance 
enhancements and continuous improvements. 
COOPERATION
Encouraging internal and external cooperation 
is an effective tool which enables us to create 
unique solutions with our partners. Each 
Vesuvius employee is committed to the success 
of its community of colleagues and customers.
Image: Levi Wu – Suzhou China 29
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Company Values and 
Commitments
RELIABILITY
Our solutions involve us in critical aspects of 
our customer´s manufacturing processes. Our 
commitment to consistently deliver quality 
products and services gives them the level of 
confidence they require.
INTEGRITY
At the heart of our promise lies the 
trustworthiness of all Vesuvius employees in 
their acts and words. Integrity, honesty and 
transparency are essential in all our exchanges.
EMBRACING DIVERSITY
Vesuvius is a global company built upon a 
true respect for local customs and experience. 
We recognise and embrace the potential for 
creativity that comes from the coexistence of 
so many different cultures.
Image: Renee Bell – Chicago Heights USA
Images below: 
TOP: Sławomir Wcis – Skawina Poland
MIDDLE: Lisa Lee – Champaign USA
BOTTOM: Leon Banks Jr. and  
Melvin Bond – Chicago Heights USA 30
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Safety Internal Communications Campaign 31
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Health & safety
SAFETYBREAKTHROUGH
Vesuvius is undertaking an ongoing global safety initiative, 
SafetyBreakthrough, across all businesses and all activities, 
including those undertaken at customer locations. It is 
driven by top management, cascaded and engaging all 
employees throughout global work activities.
The current phase of this programme, Turbo.S 
features: 
 ❯ The implementation and sharing of best practices 
through Vesuvius standards and other tools.
 ❯ A commitment to become a true Learning 
Organization, avoiding repeat accidents and 
sharing lessons learned.
 ❯ Total employee involvement, with the need for 
safety improvement being driven by the shared 
learning of our management teams, who are 
leading by example.
We set ourselves demanding but achievable 
improvement targets in the area of safety, realised 
by promoting standardised safe working procedures 
based upon thorough and detailed risk assessments. 
We make use of auditing to support the need for 
ongoing safety improvements in all areas in which 
our people work. All executives are committed to 
undertake executive safety tours as part of their 
regular responsibilities, leading by example and 
demonstrating ongoing management commitment to 
safety in all parts of the business. 
We continuously work in partnership with our 
customers and suppliers to deliver improved safety 
standards in all our workplaces. 
Our Beliefs: 
 ❯ Good Health and Safety is good business 
 ❯ Safety is everybody’s responsibility
 ❯ Working safely is a condition of employment
 ❯ All work-related injuries and work-related ill - 
health are preventable
Our Aims: 
 ❯ No Accidents
 ❯ No Repeat Injuries
 ❯ No Harm to People
Our Health and Safety Policy clearly defines our 
commitments and responsibilities, applying to 
all stakeholders in all aspects of our business. 
The Group’s Health & Safety policy and related 
information can be found on the Group’s website — 
www.vesuvius.com.
We will operate all business activities in a manner 
which aims to ensure the health and safety of 
employees, contractors, visitors, customers and any 
other person affected by these activities. 
VESUVIUS HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY  32
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Health & safety continued
SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
Vesuvius’ ultimate goal is zero work-related injuries 
and illnesses. To achieve this, a number of annual 
objectives have been agreed for the Lost-Time Injury 
Frequency Rate (“LTIFR”) — the number of work-
related illnesses or injuries which resulted in an 
employee being absent from work for at least one 
day, per million hours worked. Vesuvius operations 
worldwide report the LTIFR and we also track the 
“recordable” incident rate — the number of work-
related injuries and illnesses which resulted in medical 
treatment beyond first aid, per million hours worked.
Whether our employees and contractors are working 
in manufacturing, research and development, offices 
or customer locations, we recognise and respect the 
need to ensure that their safety remains our first 
priority. To ensure that risks and dangers are fully 
controlled, pragmatic systems and processes must be 
supported by appropriate behaviours which respect 
the risks present. Maintaining high levels of safety 
and risk awareness remains essential to the effective 
reduction and elimination of workplace accidents, 
whatever the workplace.
Additional key drivers which we adopt to achieve our 
reduction in workplace accidents include:
 ❯ High levels of employee participation in all work-
related safety and improvement opportunities, 
including participation in safety audits and 
identifying Safety Improvement Opportunities 
which focus upon eliminating the workplace 
risks that could contribute towards an accident 
happening.
 ❯ Taking a consistent risk-based approach in all 
that we do which clearly defines significant risks 
associated with any work-related activities our 
people, contractors or visitors are expected to 
undertake safely.
Images: 
LEFT: Peter Strengers –  
Borken Germany
RIGHT: Shande Wang – 
Suzhou China
SAFETY AUDITS PER 20 EMPLOYEES PER MONTH
10
8
6
4
2
0
2010 2011 2012
n Target results n Actual results 33
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
 ❯ A global commitment to development and 
implementation of world-class health and safety 
standards across high-risk business areas and 
activities.
 ❯ Introducing clear and concise visual Standardised 
Work instructions, which optimise the safest and most 
efficient way for repetitive tasks to be completed.
 ❯ Introducing a Permit to Work system based 
upon a risk identification carried out prior to 
work commencing for all non-standard work 
activities that involves all affected employees and 
contractors in the process.
Vesuvius’ “days away” injury and illness rate has 
fallen from 9.9 in 2007 to 1.8 in 2012. Clear targets 
exist with the intention of the LTIFR target for 2014 
being 1.0 per million hours worked or less.
Since the launch of SafetyBreakthrough, the level of 
lost time injuries has declined substantially (as shown 
below) year on year. 
A reporting system is in place to collect details and 
investigate all H&S-related incidents on a timely 
basis throughout the Group and to produce routine 
management reports including the KPI covering 
work-related injury and illness rates, along with lead 
indicators covering safety audit engagement and safety 
improvement opportunities. These reports and related 
performance improvement plans are regularly reviewed 
by the Chief Executive with divisional management as 
part of the normal business review cycle. 
The Chief Executive’s regular report to the Board 
includes an overview of Group H&S performance as the 
first agenda item. All significant incidents are reported 
to the Chief Executive and the Board as they occur. 
Where local business management teams feel it is 
appropriate, a number of sites have already achieved 
accreditation to OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health 
and Safety Management System), further reflecting 
the strong systems we have developed in these areas.
10
8
6
4
2
0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
VESUVIUS LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (PER 1 MILLION HOURS WORKED)
12
Image: 
Berthold Scheipers –  
Borken Germany 34
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Ann Smith – Champaign - USA 35
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Committed to people
Vesuvius looks at diversity in its broadest sense, 
recognising the importance of getting the right balance 
of independence, skills, knowledge and experience, 
both on the Board and across the business.
As a global business Vesuvius employs some 11,000 
people (excluding those employed in joint ventures) 
in 30 countries; our management grades alone 
comprise over 50 nationalities. Diversity is therefore 
an integral part of how Vesuvius does business. 
The benefits that different perspectives can bring 
are widely recognised and in recruiting employees 
Vesuvius draws on a varied range of backgrounds 
and expertise, benefiting from all dimensions of 
diversity including cultural and gender diversity.
For the third consecutive year, the Columbus 
programme has helped rejuvenate our employment 
base by encouraging promising young graduates, 
from emerging countries, to join Vesuvius and start 
an international career. This graduate intake is a 
corporate resource and is funded centrally. 
In 2011, five graduates from Poland and one from  
the Czech Republic commenced their careers in China.
In 2012, a graduate exchange programme was 
introduced and three graduates from both India 
and China exchanged places. In 2013 a similar 
programme is planned with Brazil and India.
“Vesuvius is a well-established and highly 
respected company where I will have a 
chance to develop my skills and be trained 
to become a professional engineer. The 
Columbus project is a great opportunity to 
work in a professional environment and it is 
an interesting cross-cultural experience.” 
Michal Smola, 
graduate from the 
department of 
Chemical Technology, 
Kracow’s University 
of Technology 
(Politechnika 
Krakowska), 
participant in the 
2011 Columbus programme. In January 2012, 
Michal was appointed as Project Engineer 
with the Foundry Business Unit in Hengelo 
(Netherlands).
Vesuvius’ ambitious business plan is supported by a 
three-legged Human Resources strategy: 
For each strategic focus area, examples of the most 
recent HR programme implemented at Vesuvius are 
described below. 
H – “HIRE AND RESOURCE” 36
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Committed to people continued
heaTt courses, all internally developed, were delivered 
to 340 customer-facing employees in 2012 by our 
own specialists. Each Business Unit offers different 
levels of courses suitable for beginners right through 
to the expert. 
Our technical university ensures that Vesuvius 
maintains its competitive advantage in delivering an 
enhanced technical service to our customers. In 2012, 
we developed an additional seven courses and can 
now offer 32 technical modules for delivery worldwide. 
In 2012, we delivered the third and final session of our 
industrial marketing programme, Pulse, developed in 
cooperation with INSEAD. As a logical follow-up to our 
Boost! programme, developed with INSEAD for 120 
senior managers, a new programme for middle managers 
was designed with the Vlerick Business School: Wings. 
The pilot was successfully delivered in April 2012 
covering a wide range of business management topics 
including the strengthening of leadership capabilities 
and skills. The programme will run for four years 
to allow all of our middle-managers with people-
management responsibilities to attend the course.
“heaTt is a very powerful training platform. 
Experienced colleagues gave me a 
detailed insight into our products and their 
applications. I am better positioned now to 
successfully partner with our customers and 
elaborate solutions for their specific needs. 
heaTt significantly contributed to raise my 
confidence in front of the customers.” 
Emiel Herdenberg, 
Account Manager, 
for Advanced 
Refractories in 
the Netherlands, 
after attending the 
heaTt Advanced 
Refractories training 
in Oxselosund, 
Sweden.
ANOTHER 2012 INITIATIVE CENTRED 
AROUND THE UK BRIBERY ACT . 
In response to the UK Bribery Act, the 
Company’s Code of Conduct was revised and 
recommunicated to all employees in 2011. New 
policies on anti-bribery & corruption have been 
developed. Together they require that employees 
and others working on behalf of the Company do 
not engage in any form of bribery or corruption. 
An anti-bribery and corruption compliance 
programme has been established throughout 
the Group, and is being implemented through 
a targeted face-to-face training programme. 
An e-learning module has been developed and 
is being rolled out globally, as local language 
versions become available, to relevant office-based 
individuals. New employees, if relevant, will go 
through the training as part of their induction 
process. The compliance programme includes 
undertaking risk assessments and engaging with 
others working on behalf of the Company to ensure 
that their standards comply with Vesuvius’ policies.
We aim to grow our technical expertise and strengthen 
our learning organisation. For this we rely on local 
training initiatives as well as well-developed Corporate 
Training programmes and heaTt, the Vesuvius technical 
university.
T — TRAIN AND DEVELOP 37
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
R — RETAIN AND MOTIVATE
As a way to optimise the talents of our employees and 
provide continued development opportunities, several 
HR programmes have been deployed worldwide.
During the People Review process, local, regional and 
global management personnel discuss their people in 
a structured format, they identify the strengths of their 
organisation and define the areas for improvement.
The Performance Management Process contributes to 
formalising the career aspirations of our employees 
and assists in structuring training plans.
High Potentials are identified at local, regional and 
global level and individual development plans are 
devised by their managers to support their career 
development. 
More recently, Vesuvius has launched the Living 
The Values Awards, a worldwide initiative to 
encourage nominations for the colleagues who 
have best demonstrated the five Group Values at 
work: Embracing Diversity, Cooperation, Creativity, 
Reliability and Integrity.
The Awards process culminated in a ceremony, held in 
Bruges, Belgium, in April 2012 during which the fifteen 
award winners, seven individuals and eight teams, 
were presented with their awards by the Vesuvius 
Executive Committee. Each winner nominated their 
preferred charity to receive a donation.
Image: Living the Values 
Awards Ceremony — Bruges, 
Belgium — April 2012
Award winners from Belgium, 
Brazil, China, Egypt, France, 
Germany, Spain, Thailand, the 
United Kingdom, the USA and 
Vietnam
SPLIT
’SALARIED/HOURLY’
n HOURLY  54%
n SALARIED  37%
n TEMPS  9%
HEADCOUNT  
PER PRODUCT LINE
n FLOW CONTROL  38%
n FOUNDRY TECH. 24%
n FUSED SILICA  6%
n ADV REFRACTORIES  25%
n SHARED SERVICES  7%
HEADCOUNT  
PER REGION
n NORTH ASIA  3%
n CHINA  16%
n SOUTH ASIA  3%
n INDIA  7%
n EUROPE  42%
n SOUTH AMERICA  6%
n NAFTA  23%
“People are judged according to their results 
but our Group Values should be at the core of 
everything we do — and the key to helping us 
deliver positive results”, François Wanecq, Chief 
Executive, Vesuvius plc 38
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Troy Price – Champaign USA 39
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Customer focused
QUALITY ASSURED
Our Quality Policy clearly defines our commitments 
and responsibilities which apply to all aspects of 
the business. The implementation of our Quality 
Plan is driven throughout the organisation by top 
management. 
Our Quality Plan features: 
 ❯ The application of the Vesuvius 8D methodology 
to resolve customer, supplier and internal 
issues. This methodology is built upon the 
eight Disciplines to follow in order to eliminate 
problems permanently. It is focused on 
determining the root cause, implementing 
effective corrective actions and preventing  
repeat issues.
 ❯ A commitment to become a true Learning 
Organisation. Every problem is welcomed as 
an opportunity for improvement where lessons 
learned are created and shared in order to 
leverage the benefits across the Group.
 ❯ The application of Lean Principles to improve 
shop floor quality, responsiveness, and flexibility. 
Lean manufacturing methods, such as those 
successfully utilised in the automotive industry, 
are adopted throughout the Group. 
These principles drive implementation of:
 – strong control plans to detect any defects as 
close as possible to their point of occurrence to 
facilitate immediate problem solving;
 – accelerated product flow to allow quicker 
detection of issues and impact rejects/rework;
 – standardised production methods to ensure 
excellent quality. 
We will operate all business activities to ensure the 
quality of the products and services we deliver to  
our customers. VESUVIUS QUALITY POLICY
Image: The Vesuvius 8D 40
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
8D problem solving involves a team approach and 
requires strict adherence to the eight Disciplines. 
8D IN ACTION
Recently a customer had a problem with the 
shoulder dimensions of glass tempering rolls 
supplied from one of our North American plants. 
A multifunctional team was assembled that 
included the Plant Manager , Production Manager , 
Maintenance Technician, shop floor Team Leader , 
Quality Manager and Lab Technician. Each of the 
eight Disciplines was applied to quickly contain 
the issue, allowing time to focus on the root 
cause, determined to be a problem with one 
piece of equipment. Corrective actions were then 
implemented to solve the problem and no further 
complaints were received for this issue. Lessons 
learned were shared with other similar operations 
around the world further to capture the benefits.
ISO 9001:2008 certification is an important part of our 
quality strategy; however , we strive to surpass these 
requirements in the implementation of the Quality Plan.
Working with our suppliers, we create partnerships 
to ensure that our requirements, and those of our 
customers, are met consistently. 
PARTNERSHIP - A CASE STUDY
One raw material supplier in China had 
a repeat issue delivering non-conforming 
materials, leading us to reject over 30% of 
their supply. Through assessments, coaching 
and implementing agreed quality improvement 
actions, the supplier’s defect level was 
significantly improved in a short period of time.
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
2008–Oct 2010 Oct 2010–DEC 2012
WORKING WITH A SUPPLIER TO REDUCE THE 
REJECT RATE OF THE RAW MATERIAL THEY 
DELIVER TO US
RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL 
Reliability is vital to our customers as they use 
Vesuvius’ products in critical areas of their own 
processes. The level of risk attached to a catastrophic 
failure is often such that, for people and equipment, 
no compromise can be taken and reliability therefore 
is a primary commitment of Vesuvius.
Vesuvius strives to deliver reliability and consistency 
through best-in-class quality management in its 72 
major production sites. 
Image: Left to right, Marshall Davis, James Caulder, 
Todd Miller, John McColl, Wilbert Hunt, Brian Hays
Customer focused continued 41
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Reliability also results from our close cooperation 
with customers’ operations, from the permanent 
presence of our engineers and technicians at our 
customers’ locations and from the level of service and 
expertise we provide.  
Reliability is maintained within our global process 
of innovation and continuous improvement through 
strict testing procedures and total transparency with 
our customers on the protocols we follow to validate 
any change in our products. 
RELIABILITY - A CASE STUDY
In a blast furnace application in Western Europe, 
our customer was suffering from variable iron 
stream quality with a competitor’s material and 
was preparing to revamp their furnace. Vesuvius’ 
technical service experts proposed a new high 
grade taphole clay optimised for the new 
operating conditions of the furnace to address 
the current problems and make the process 
more reliable. The results:
 ❯ safety improved due to a reduction in 
splashing and spraying
 ❯ over £150,000 savings per year in reduced 
maintenance 
 ❯ overall furnace productivity improved as 
casting speeds were stabilised with the 
improved stream
SERVICE IS PART OF THE VESUVIUS CULTURE
The quality of our service delivery derives from our 
deep understanding of our customers’ process and 
expectations, our intimate knowledge of their needs 
and our efforts to increase their performance at all 
levels of their value chain. 
Vesuvius’ plants are close to the customers they serve 
and can deliver goods and technical service at very 
short notice.
Our experts are in permanent contact with our 
customers’ operations to provide support with 
creative solutions and new technologies, based on 
their access to the unrivalled experience acquired 
across the world and throughout the industry. 
Maintaining our high level of service is part of our 
commitment to reliability.
SERVICE - A CASE STUDY
One steel plant was looking to increase the 
performance of their casting operation (more 
output, higher product quality, and more 
operational flexibility).
 
Vesuvius recommended the Shroud Exchange 
Mechanism, SEM85 with VPC (Vesuvius 
Precision Control). This solution combines a 
system to exchange the tundish shroud without 
cast interruption and without raising the 
tundish,  automatic mould level control with 
+/- 1.5 mm accuracy, and automatic clogging 
prevention (stopper oscillation) with mould level 
set point modulation (to increase tube life). 
 
As a result, annual caster production rose from 
790,000 tonnes to 870,000 tonnes. Quality 
improved thanks to better accuracy in mould 
level control (95% of the time working in 
automatic), and as a result, there was a 56% 
reduction in diverted slabs on thin plate steel 
grades. Safety was also improved with the new 
ability to stop steel flow with a “blank” plate 
and better working conditions for operators.
Image: Linna Sun –  
Suzhou China 42
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Determination of melting point of aggressive slags – Vesuvius R&D 43
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Innovation
Innovation is at the core of all our activities. To 
stimulate this innovative strength we value creativity 
in all aspects of our processes and practices. 
Innovation in technology within Vesuvius is fuelled by:
AN INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE OF OUR CUSTOMER 
PROCESSES AND NEEDS
Our customer-specific knowledge comes from having 
over 200 field applications engineers working in 
active partnership with our customers. However, it is 
also essential to understand in depth the interaction 
of our products and systems with our customers’ 
processes and products. Most of Vesuvius’ products 
come into direct contact with our customers’ end-
products and all of the systems provided play an 
integral part in their manufacturing processes. The 
end result is that Vesuvius products and systems 
play a crucial role in determining the quality of the 
end-product and the efficiency of our customers’ 
processes.
The impact which Vesuvius products and processes 
have on our customers’ product quality and process 
efficiency is a responsibility which we take seriously 
and it is with a focus on the maintenance and 
improvement of this quality and efficiency that we 
are developing and using state-of-the-art modelling 
tools to innovate new products and systems. 
Computational Fluid Dynamics (“CFD”), coupled 
with physical water modelling, is used to simulate 
our customers’ process flow patterns, including 
temperature, pressure and velocity distribution. The 
use of advanced simulation software for the casting 
and solidification process allows the prediction of 
final product quality. We have also developed a 
thermo-chemical simulation to predict interactions 
of our products in corrosive environments. Finally, 
newly - developed products are evaluated in our 
pilot testing facilities, which reproduce the difficult 
conditions of on-site applications.
STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGIES IN PRODUCTS, 
SYSTEMS AND SERVICES
Vesuvius’ fundamental expertise, developed in six 
R&D centres and supported by eight development 
units employing over 150 high level graduates, is 
focused on ceramic materials designed to withstand 
extreme usage conditions. Application temperatures 
regularly exceed 1,500°C in aggressive molten 
metal, glass or slag, resulting in considerable 
thermomechanical and thermochemical stresses. 
Vesuvius is developing, specific to the materials 
used in its products, state-of-the-art Finite Element 
Analysis (“FEA”) simulations in order to more 
accurately determine thermal distribution and stress 
gradients, so as to be able to optimise the properties 
of its products. The outstanding performance 
gained by using these refractory products is further 
enhanced by being used in combination with the 
complementary technically advanced systems 
developed by Vesuvius to optimise the safety, 
productivity and quality of our customers’ processes.
Three recent major innovations (two in the field 
of steel continuous casting and one in ductile 
iron foundries) illustrate well Vesuvius innovation 
providing quality service to our customers:
Image: Turbostop
TM
 Modelling 44
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
1. IMPROVED STEEL YIELD AND PRODUCTIVITY WITH 
TOTAL TUNDISH TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS (“T³”)
A fully engineered, customised T³ solution to improve 
yield and productivity has significantly improved steel 
producing operations at one of the most modern thin 
slab casting plants in the world. 
By working with steel plant engineers using 
computational fluid design of the ladle and tundish 
and water modelling and physical design of the 
tundish, Vesuvius engineers were able to recommend 
changes to the existing ladle and tundish refractory 
design.
By incorporating a combined ladle and tundish 
solution using ELBY™ and Yield Enhancing Systems 
(“YES”) in conjunction with a complete Turbostop™ 
tundish flow design the steel plant was able to 
justify a prolonged evaluation of the technology 
and practise change recommendations to verify the 
improved ladle and tundish yield. In addition, they 
were also able to modify their grade mix model to 
allow for a significant reduction in the mix grade 
casting losses to scrap.
Using the Vesuvius ITI process monitoring system, 
a rapid, online, sophisticated, infra-red, optical 
monitoring system, coupled with novel software that 
allows a quantitative evaluation of slag and steel 
in conjunction with normal steel plant accounting 
processes, they were able to verify the accuracy of all 
of the model predictions. This enabled the steel plant to 
accelerate full implementation in less than six months 
to take immediate advantage of the large cost savings, 
scrap reduction and productivity improvements.
As a result, the steel plant has been able to increase 
yield by 33.25 tons per casting sequence, which 
translates to a reduction of 242 ladles of steel 
being melted per year or an increase in prime yield 
of approximately 40,000 tons per annum or 1.2% 
productivity improvement.
2. ROBOTIC CASTING TECHNOLOGY (“RCT”) WITH 
LADLE TUBE CHANGER (“LTC”) AND SHROUD 
EXCHANGE MECHANISM (SEM 3085)
Vesuvius has focused its efforts at developing innovative 
technical solutions around the continuous caster targeted 
to achieve not one, but all of the steel industries’ critical 
objectives of improved Productivity, Flexibility, Yield, 
Quality, Safety, Cost and Environmental impact.
As a consequence, Vesuvius has recently launched the 
first products of our new Robotic Casting Technology 
range. The Ladle Tube Changer (“LTC”) is a significant 
move in technology away from the traditional ladle 
shroud and collector nozzle joint to a flat plate joint 
with the ladle shroud no longer held in place by a 
manipulator, but becoming an integral part of the 
ladle slide gate system. This arrangement provides 
an improved yield of prime quality steel through the 
reduced possibility of reoxidation with a tighter joint 
and the ability to safely guarantee 100% submerged 
opening into the tundish. The system has also been 
designed to be robot compatible allowing the entire 
ladle shroud operation, including shroud cleaning, 
to be achieved without human intervention, thereby 
removing the operators from the most exposed and 
dangerous environment still existing in the steel plant 
today. 
Innovation continued
Image: Ladle with ELBY™
Image: Ladle and tundish with 
Robotic Casting Technology 45
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
The latest robot-compatible tundish tube changer 
(SEM3085) has also been designed to reduce air 
aspiration and therefore also enhance quality, to 
increase flexibility and safety through the double stroke 
concept, allowing for an emergency shut-off at any 
moment in any situation and to maximise productivity 
and yield through a more robust refractory design 
allowing significantly longer sequences to be cast. 
For devices such as the SEM3085 to achieve their maximum 
potential in terms of quality and yield it is also essential to 
provide extremely precise steel flow regulation. We achieve 
this with our SERT M type electric stopper valve and the 
new generation of Avemis ledge type eddy current mould 
level sensors. Ledge sensors are fully compatible with all 
other electromagnetic actuators employed in the mould, 
such as electromagnetic stirrers and brakes, and do not 
interfere with the tube change function, as is the case for 
the conventional suspended sensors. The Avemis ledge 
sensor coupled with the precise SERT stopper control system 
therefore allows for accurate continuous fully automatic 
mould level control for the entire casting sequence 
maintaining prime quality steel production. 
3. INITEK — AN IMPROVED METHOD OF 
PRODUCING DUCTILE IRON
The production of magnesium-treated ductile iron castings 
is witnessing a radical change in the way liquid metal 
treatment practices are performed. Foundries, worldwide, 
are fundamentally reviewing current processes in light of 
findings embodied in a revolutionary, patented, Foseco 
technology described simply as “an improved method of 
producing ductile iron”. Foseco has branded the metal 
treatment process as “INITEK”. INITEK dramatically 
improves the level of process control in foundries and the 
overall quality and cost for producing ductile iron castings. 
To achieve this, Foseco, together with key business 
partners, has developed a unique combination of new 
metallurgical products, analytical tools, process know-how, 
and a state-of-the-art metallurgical treatment vessel.
At the heart of the INITEK process is the patented, prism-
shaped vessel commonly referred to as a “converter”; a 
specially - designed containment vessel for liquid iron used 
in the foundry as a reaction chamber in the production 
of ductile iron. The interior wall of the converter vessel is 
lined with a novel KAL TEK ISO refractory system, patented 
by Foseco, which promotes a high level of metallurgical 
process consistency and metal temperature control. 
A unique ferro-alloy called INODEX is placed inside the 
converter vessel to “initialise” or remove unwanted 
elements from the iron, thus promoting an efficient 
chemical transition from liquid ”base” iron to ductile iron 
with NODULANT ferro-silicon-magnesium alloy. Results 
are validated using a class-leading ITACA* thermal 
analysis system in combination with other conventional 
metallographic and physical tests.
Successful adoption of the INITEK process requires a 
detailed understanding of metallurgical processes and the 
ability to deliver highly customised, engineering solutions, 
to foundries. Foseco application experts work closely with 
foundry operations and engineers to design, fabricate, and 
install specialised equipment that when used together 
with Foseco products deliver value both in terms of 
financial savings and enhanced capabilities to foundries.
The many benefits of the advanced metal treatment 
technology for ductile iron castings are centred 
on a considerable reduction in liquid iron process 
temperatures in the foundry. Not only is a substantial 
energy saving obtained, but further benefits related 
to productivity, casting quality, and the consumption 
rate of refractories and metallurgical alloys are also 
achieved, delivering net savings to foundries in the 
range of €40–€120 per tonne of liquid iron. 
*ITACA is a trademark of ProService Technologies (Italy). Foseco is the exclusive 
distributor of ITACA systems, worldwide.
Image: INITEK* Ladle 46
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012  47
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Sustainability
BACKGROUND
Vesuvius has a relatively large number of small and 
medium sized facilities located in 30 countries throughout 
the world’s major economic regions. Thanks to this 
network, we are located close to our customers. We can 
operate in just-in-time supply chains with short lead times 
from order to delivery and reduced transport times to our 
customers located in more than 100 countries.
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive 
(total energy costs are less than 3% of revenue) and 
do not produce large quantities of hazardous or other 
wastes and emissions.
Our businesses deliver, under the Vesuvius and the 
Foseco brands, a large range of solutions that help 
our customers improve not only the productivity but 
also the quality of their products, the environmental 
footprint of the processes and employee safety. 
Vesuvius’ products are used in molten metal handling 
and at extreme temperatures. Our first commitment 
to our customers is the reliability of our solutions that 
help to protect their employees’ safety through the 
prevention of failures that could have catastrophic 
consequences for employees or equipment. 
Reducing the impact of our activities on the environment 
is a constant priority at Vesuvius. Vesuvius targets the 
highest standards of quality, safety and sustainability in 
its own operations and endeavours to meet the global 
expectations of its customers and stakeholders. 
Thermal optimisation, slag and reject reduction are key 
factors in the processes for which we supply solutions. 
Vesuvius contributes to the reduction of its customers’ 
energy usage and subsequent CO
2
 emissions reduction 
through insulating materials, laminar flow management, 
extended sequences and reduced downtime. 
 
ENERGY CONSERVATION PLAN
Energy consumption and CO
2
 emissions are regularly 
monitored and taken into account in all our investment 
programmes. All our factory emissions are proactively 
managed in accordance with local regulations. 
Regular analysis of our operations enables us to take 
appropriate actions to reduce our emissions. 
The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan was launched 
in 2011 with the objective of reducing our normalised 
energy consumption by 10% over the following 
three years. Managing our energy intensity is part 
of enhancing our cost competitiveness. It also 
contributes to improving the total environmental 
impact of our customers. It is part of our commitment 
to the communities in which we operate. 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CO
2
 IMPACT INITIATIVE
Vesuvius’ specialised expertise in molten metal 
handling and casting provides assistance to customers 
both by reducing the energy intensity of their existing 
and new breakthrough processes, and through the 
manufacture of new products that improve the energy 
efficiency of metal-using products in society. 
The Energy Efficiency and CO
2
 Impact project is a 
corporate initiative launched to foster the deployment of 
energy efficiency and sustainable solutions engineered 
by our technology departments. A CO
2
 Impact stamp, 
launched in 2011, highlights the most energy efficient 
solutions in our portfolio of products and services.
We will operate all work and business activities in a 
manner which ensures appropriate care and protection 
of the environment. VESUVIUS ENVIRONMENT POLICY 48
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Sustainability
ENERGY SAVING
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
— Natural Gas million kWh
— Electricity million kWh
VESUVIUS PLC
CASE STUDY — OVEN OPTIMISATION FOR 
SLEEVE FIRING AT IZURZA, SPAIN
Lean aims to eliminate non value-adding activities 
and waste from business processes.
Izurza has two main lines for manufacturing sleeves, 
each line is equipped with machines which feed 
an oven. The bottlenecks in both lines were the 
machines, as the ovens have more capacity than the 
machines, even when they are operating at 100%. 
There are also times when the machines are not 
manufacturing, so it appeared there was room for 
improvement. Juan Carlos Cruz tells us about this 
project:
“The objective is to combine both lines into one, 
running into one oven. In Lean, the aim is that the 
product should continuously move towards the 
customer , so that the customer should never be 
kept waiting. Therefore we studied different options 
that do not stop the flow of products. The selected 
option called for the installation of rollers from Line 
1 to Line 2. Oven temperature and process speed 
were adjusted. When the machines are working 
at 100%, it is necessary to have a buffer to ‘store’ 
some trays; time when one machine is stopped for 
a tool change is enough to empty the buffer , so 
no issues arise regarding drying times for different 
recipes and no HSE issues have been detected.”
RESULTS
 ❯ One oven runs at 100% capacity, the second 
oven is turned off
 ❯ Annual saving of €33,000
 ❯ Energy intensity of the firing process reduced 
by 20%
As shown by the above chart, energy use has been stable in the last three years. Our fuel consumption is not 
directly related with quantities produced, as some energy-consuming tools operate continuously. In 2012, 
electricity use decreased by 3% compared with 2011 and gas usage increased marginally.
Image: Back row, left to right: Igor 
Cenigaonaindia, Angel Quintanilla, Jesus Ortiz, 
Juan Carlos Cruz, Javier Salcines.
Front row, left to right: Ruben Marcos, David 
Gomez, Demetrio Maruri. 49
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
KALPUR FEEDING SOLUTIONS FOR FERROUS 
FOUNDRIES
“Ferrous foundries supplying the automotive 
industry use feeding systems to provide liquid 
metal to the casting cavity during solidification. 
This ensures that the castings produced are free 
from shrinkage defects in all critical areas.
Customers’ key objectives are to reduce the weight 
of the feeder , to maximise the amount of castings 
per mould and to minimise the contact area between 
the feed reservoir and the casting. A customer in Italy 
asked for a technical solution to produce two 94kg 
ductile iron axle supports in one mould.
The only way to locate the two castings within one 
mould was to use the direct pouring or KALPUR 
approach. This system is a unique combination 
of metal filtration and feeding system products. 
Foseco demonstrated the viability of this solution 
by the use of MAGMASOFT casting process 
simulation software to model the filling and 
solidification processes. Since implementation 
of this solution, the customer has produced this 
casting successfully for almost two years.
In this example the customer was able to 
double their production capacity without capital 
investment, reduce energy consumption and 
maximise the efficiency of their manufacturing 
process.”
Christof VOLKS, International Product Manager 
Feeding Systems
INNOVATIVE VESUVIUS REFRACTORY SOLUTION 
ALLOWS MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT SLAB 
REHEATING
“For a customer in Romania, increasing the overall 
thermal efficiency with a safe and cost-effective 
solution was the objective for the relining of their 
pusher reheat furnace. For the side walls, Vesuvius 
opted for a combination of products selected 
on the basis of a thermal simulation and of field 
proven mechanical resistance to scale and slag. 
The main product is TRIAD® 70. This is a 70% 
Alumina, Mullite based “no cement” product. 
It was applied using an innovative shotcreting 
technology.
For the hearth design, the choice was driven 
by health and safety issues generated by the 
manipulation of heavy refractory blocks and by the 
overall short life performance of these blocks. 
The product of choice is the HYDRA PLUS® 
SPINEL C-2. This is an ultra-low, coarse-grained 
high alumina product fortified with spinel to 
resist the harsh reheat hearth environment. The 
pumpable installation is safer and faster than the 
former cast block technology.
After more than two years of service, the hearth is 
unmarked. The customer reported energy savings 
of €743,000 per annum. This corresponds to 15% 
energy saving per tonne of finished product.”
George PLATT, Marketing and Technology Director 
Advanced Refractories Europe 50
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: X Ray Fluorescence – Vesuvius R&D 51
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Financial review
INTRODUCTION
We start our journey as a new company in a very strong financial position.
We are a well funded company, with net debt of £295 million and 
committed debt facilities of £580 million with maturities out to 2020. 
Gearing, with net debt representing slightly over one and one half times 
EBITDA, is healthy and well within our debt covenants. Our business is 
strongly cash generative with a relatively low capital intensity. In short, we 
are well positioned to provide superior returns to shareholders, invest in 
organic projects, and fund attractive acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Vesuvius has a well invested manufacturing base, having spent £260 
million of capital expenditure over the last five years. We have aligned 
our production footprint to match customer locations and improve cost 
leadership. Since 2002, the number of operations in emerging markets 
has increased from 23 to 38, whereas the number of sites in developed 
markets has decreased from 55 to 34 over the same period. As part of this 
alignment, we have established a cost-effective manufacturing presence 
in lower cost countries such as Mexico, Poland, the Czech Republic, India 
and China, with investment in state-of-the-art facilities benefiting from 
lower operating costs. We intend to maintain our cost leadership position 
and will continue to ensure our production footprint is closely aligned with 
customer locations in lower cost countries.
In addition to a drive for cost leadership, we have also focused, in recent 
years, on improving our financial and operational flexibility. We have a robust 
balance sheet with ample liquidity headroom under long-term financing 
arrangements. We also have a flexible workforce, with almost half of our 
European workforce either being employed on temporary contracts or 
members of government-subsidised working hour reduction schemes.
We will continue to focus on improving our financial and operational flexibility 
in order to ensure that we are able to react appropriately, and quickly, to 
changes in end-market conditions. These continued cost and working capital 
management actions, combined with our strategy of further penetration of our 
value pricing model, selected bolt-on acquisitions in high margin segments and 
selected disposals of low margin activities should further improve margins and 
position Vesuvius well to take advantage of growth in our markets.
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The creation of Vesuvius plc on 17 December 2012, and the subsequent 
demerger of Alent plc on 19 December 2012 gives rise to some complications 
in the presentation of financial information for 2012. The income statement 
and cash flow statement both include the results of Alent plc from 1 January 
2012 to 18 December 2012; the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 does not 
include any assets or liabilities relating to the demerged Alent plc business.
The 2012 income statement, together with the 2011 comparatives, shows 
the results of Alent plc as discontinued operations, together with the results 
of the whole of the Precious Metals Processing division, as management 
anticipates a 2013 disposal of the remainder of the division not disposed of in 
2012. Most items within the income statement are reasonably attributable to 
the Vesuvius and Alent operations, with the principal exception being finance 
income and costs. The majority of external debt in 2012 was held by companies 
"Following 
the demerger 
of Cookson, 
Vesuvius has a 
strong balance 
sheet and a 
determination 
to improve its 
financial and 
operational 
flexibility."
CHRIS O’SHEA, 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 52
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
remaining within the Vesuvius Group and accordingly, 
finance income and costs are shown principally within 
Vesuvius results from continuing operations. Vesuvius has 
adopted a columnar presentation format to separately 
identify Headline Performance results, as it is considered 
that Headline Performance gives a better view of the 
underlying results of the ongoing business. 
The pro forma results shown in the table below include 
only the finance income and costs that would have been 
incurred by Vesuvius as a stand-alone entity in 2012, using 
the 66:34 split of net debt between Vesuvius plc and Alent 
plc adjusted for the fact that all US Private Placement 
notes (“USPP”) remained with Vesuvius; the remaining 
costs are those which Vesuvius management believe are 
attributable to the demerged Alent plc business.
The cash flow statement (including note 14) separately 
identifies cash flows from operations and free cash flows 
relating to continuing operations.
The balance sheet at 31 December 2011 represents 
the Cookson Group plc balance sheet, including assets 
and liabilities relating both to the demerged Alent 
plc and the Precious Metals Processing division (the 
discontinued operations), and the continuing Vesuvius 
business. The balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 
comprises the continuing Vesuvius plc business with the 
Precious Metals Processing division classified as held for 
sale. The additional disclosure in the income statement 
and the notes to the cash flow statement have been 
provided to help readers better understand the drivers of 
the movements between the balance sheets. 
TRADING RESULTS — HEADLINE AND PRO FORMA 
PERFORMANCE
2012 was a difficult year , with a marked slowdown in 
trading experienced in the second half of the year . Total 
revenue of £1,548 million was weighted towards the 
first half, with a fall of 11% in revenues experienced in 
the second half of the year when compared with the first 
half. The fall in trading profit was more pronounced in the 
same period with a 33% reduction in the second half.
On an underlying basis, adjusting for the effects 
of acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange 
movements, revenue fell by 4%.
In our Steel division, revenues fell 6% to £1,018 million 
with the fall principally related to the Australian Andreco-
Hurll business disposed of in the year . Trading profit fell 
by 22% reflecting the lower revenues and increased 
provisions for doubtful debts.
Overall margins in the Steel division fell from 9.9% 
in 2011 to 8.2% in 2012 (and from 10.4% to 8.7% 
on an underlying basis, adjusted for exchange rates, 
acquisitions and disposals).
Foundry revenues fell by 9% to £530 million at constant 
exchange rates, largely due to a continued decline in the 
selling price of our Solar Crucibles products, together 
with a 3% reduction in other foundry revenue. Trading 
profit fell by 36% (31% at constant rates), reflecting 
losses in the Solar Crucibles business and a 15% 
reduction in profitability in other foundry products. 
Financial review continued
Variance
PRO FORMA
HEADLINE PERFORMANCE 2012 2011
Reported 
rates
Constant 
rates
Revenue (£m) — Steel 1,018 1,078 (5)% (2)%
— Foundry 530 608 (13)% (9)%
— Group 1,548 1,686 (8)% (5)%
Trading profit (£m) — Steel 83.8 107.2 (21)% (19)%
— Foundry 49.2 76.3 (36)% (30)%
— Group 133.0 183.5 (27)% (23)%
Return on sales (%) — Steel 8.2 9.9 (1.7)pts (1.5)pts
— Foundry 9.3 12.6 (3.3)pts (3.0)pts
— Group 8.6 10.9 (2.3)pts (2.1)pts
Profit before tax (£m) 118.2 162.1 (27)%
Effective tax rate (%) 26.7 26.6 0.1pts
Earnings per share (p) 29.4 41.0 (28)%
Dividend per share (p) — Final 9.5 n/a
— Interim 7.5 n/a 53
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Margins in the Foundry division fell from 12.6% in 
2011 to 9.3% in 2012 (and from 13.1% to 11.6% 
on an underlying basis, adjusted for exchange rates, 
acquisitions and disposals).
Headline earnings per share (“EPS”) from continuing 
operations before separately reported items were 
27.5 pence for 2012 (2011: 39.4 pence). After the pro 
forma interest charge adjustment referred to above, 
pro forma headline EPS were 29.4 pence for 2012 
(2011: 41.0 pence). 
TRADING RESULTS — DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Reported as discontinued operations are the 
consolidated results of the Alent plc group of businesses 
up to 18 December 2012, plus the results of the 
Precious Metals Processing division; the latter comprising 
the results of the US Precious Metals operations up to 
their disposal on 1 May 2012 in addition to the full year 
results of the European operations which are held for 
sale at the end of 2012.
Total revenue of Alent plc for the period up to the 
demerger was £698 million, compared with £814 
million in the full year 2011. Trading profit for the 
period was £99.8 million, compared with £99.6 
million in the full year 2011.
Revenue of the Precious Metals division for 2012 
was £190 million, down from £326 million in 2011, 
due to the sale, on 1 May 2012, of the US operations 
of the division. Excluding the results of the US 
operations, revenue of the European businesses was 
£148 million in 2012, down 19% on the prior year 
(15% at constant exchange rates), which reflected 
continuing weak retail jewellery markets, partially 
offset by good levels of precious metals recycling. 
Trading profit for the year of £17.2 million showed an 
increase of £10.1 million on the prior year, principally 
due to the removal of the loss-making US business. 
RESTRUCTURING
The majority of the restructuring charge in the year 
relates to the Solar Crucibles product line where, due 
to a severe downturn in the market, the decision was 
taken in 2012 to close manufacturing facilities in the 
Czech Republic, Poland and China, leaving one plant 
in China producing Solar Crucibles. Subsequent to 
the end of the year, the decision was taken to exit the 
Solar Crucibles product line completely as it became 
clear that, despite the substantial restructuring 
measures implemented in 2012, the business would 
remain loss-making for the foreseeable future.
In addition, the Steel Flow Control plant at Tianjin 
in China was closed in 2012 as production was 
absorbed within other Chinese plants.
Of the total restructuring charge of £57.0 million, 
£46.3 million related to the closure of the Solar 
Crucibles operations, £40.8 million of which related 
to non-cash asset write-offs. The remaining £16.2 
million of restructuring charge represents cash costs, 
some of which will be incurred in 2013 and later 
years, related mainly to redundancy programmes 
initiated during the year.
DIVESTMENTS
On 19 December 2012, the Company demerged the 
Alent business (formerly the Performance Materials 
division of Cookson Group plc), at which date the fair 
market value of Alent plc was £862.4 million. The net 
assets of the Alent group of businesses as at the  
date of the demerger, 19 December 2012, was 
£307.0 milion, resulting in a profit on disposal of 
£555.4 million.
As part of the strategy to exit low margin businesses, 
principally in the Advanced Refractories product  
line of the Steel division, Andreco-Hurll, a 
construction business in Australia was disposed of  
on 24 July to Veolia Environmental Services for a cash 
consideration of Aus$8 million (£5 million). In 2012, 
Andreco-Hurll had revenue of Aus$19 million (£12 
million; 2011: £57 million) and a trading profit of 
Aus$0.7 million (£0.4 million).
On 22 February 2012 we entered into an agreement 
to sell our loss-making US Precious Metals business to 
Richline Group, Inc. a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway 
Inc. for a cash consideration of £18 million. The sale 
completed on 1 May 2012. Following the decision, 
in late 2012, to completely exit the Precious Metals 
Processing business, the results of this entire division is 
reported within discontinued operations. As announced 
on 27 March 2013, we have reached agreement with 
Heimerle + Meule GmbH, a subsidiary of L. Possehl 
& Co, mbH (“Possehl”) to sell the European Precious 
Metals Processing business for a consideration of 
€56.8 million. The cash consideration will be subject 
to closing balance sheet adjustments. Completion, 
which is expected by the end of the first half of 2013, 
will be subject to conditions including approval by the 
European Commission and by the Supervisory Board 
of Possehl.  54
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
ACQUISITIONS
During the year Metallurgica was purchased for £28 
million. Metallurgica, headquartered in Germany, 
is one of the world’s leading suppliers of fluxes, a 
range of powders used alongside refractory products 
in the enclosed continuous casting technology for 
steel production. As well as absorbing impurities in 
the molten steel, these powders also help lubricate 
the mould and prevent oxidation of the molten steel 
during the production process. In 2011, Metallurgica 
had revenue of approximately £40 million and 
trading profit of approximately £3.8 million. Gross 
assets as at 31 December 2011 were approximately 
£20 million.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure in the year, excluding 
acquisitions, comprised £57.2 million on continuing 
businesses, with £38.5 million invested in our Steel 
division and £18.7 million invested in Foundry. 
This represents a reinvestment rate of 1.3 times 
depreciation of £43.1 million.
NET FINANCE COSTS
Interest payable on borrowings fell by £2.8 million 
reflecting the reduction in the Group’s overall interest 
rate on borrowings following the repayment in 
May of US$190 million of the Group’s US Private 
Placement loan notes which attracted an interest rate 
of 8.1%. 
Continuing operations
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net interest payable on 
borrowings 20.6 23.4
Finance costs — pensions 0.6 1.4
Other finance costs 1.0 1.0
Headline Performance 22.2 25.8
Separately reported — 1.9
Total net finance costs 22.2 27.7
Of which:
Pro forma stand-alone 
equivalent 14.9 20.2
The pro forma finance costs noted above, as 
described under Basis of Preparation, represent the 
estimated finance costs attributable to the Vesuvius 
continuing operations had they been a stand-alone 
entity throughout 2011 and 2012.
 
The average interest rate on the aggregate bank 
debt and US Private Placement loan notes was 3.6% 
in 2012 (2011: 4.2%). The average interest rate 
expected in 2013 is 3.7%.
TAXATION
The Group’s effective tax rate, based on the tax 
charge on ordinary activities from continuing 
operations of £29.6 million (2011: £41.9 million), 
was 26.7% in 2012 (2011: 26.6%). 
At the end of the year the Group had an 
unrecognised deferred tax asset of £336.6 million 
(see note 12), which principally comprises unutilised 
tax losses.
PENSIONS
Substantial progress was made in 2012 to de-risk 
the Group’s pension liabilities in both the UK and the 
USA and substantially reduce the Group’s exposure to 
future volatility in pension funding.
The offer of enhanced transfer values to deferred 
members of the UK defined benefit pension plan 
(“the UK Plan”), launched in 2011, was successfully 
completed in the first half of 2012. In total 550 
members took advantage of the scheme and, as 
a result, longevity and investment risk has been 
eliminated in respect of £50 million (c.10%) of the 
Group’s total UK pension liabilities.
On 19 July 2012, the Trustee of the UK Plan and Pension 
Insurance Corporation announced that they had signed 
a pension insurance buy-in agreement covering all of 
the pensioner members of the UK Plan. This eliminates 
inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk in 
respect of around 60% of Vesuvius’ total UK pension 
liabilities for a premium of £319 million.
In 2012, 67% of the deferred pensioners in the US 
defined benefit pension plan accepted an offer of a 
lump sum payment in full and final settlement of the 
Group’s pension liability to them, thus eliminating all 
future risks relating to these liabilities.
The net pension deficit at 31 December 2012 was £69 
million (31 December 2011: £32 million, excluding 
deficits of £26 million in plans which were demerged 
with Alent plc). The net increase in the deficit on an 
accounting basis under IAS 19 arose principally as 
a result of the liabilities insured by the UK pension 
buy-in agreement being valued some £50 million 
lower for accounting purposes than the premium paid. 
Financial review continued 55
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
On a funding basis, which uses more conservative 
discount rate assumptions to value future pension 
liabilities, the liabilities insured under the pension 
buy-in were valued around £10 million higher than 
the premium paid. Accordingly, the pension buy-in 
has simultaneously increased the funding surplus 
of the UK plan by £10 million whilst increasing the 
accounting deficit by £50 million.
In connection with the demerger, a cash injection 
of £38 million was agreed with the UK Plan Trustee 
to be paid into the UK Plan in mitigation for the 
liabilities of the two Alent plc participating employers 
being discharged in full on the demerger. This 
mitigation payment did not represent a charge to 
the income statement under IFRS, but is in effect an 
accelerated funding payment into the UK Plan, and as 
such is neutral when looking at total enterprise value. 
Of the total £38 million, £34 million was paid in 
December 2012, with the remaining £4 million paid 
in January 2013. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group is 
required to adopt IAS 19 (revised), Employee Benefits. 
Whilst we do not expect there to be a material 
change in the Group pension deficit as a result of the 
adoption, it will impact the Group’s income statement 
and the impact on the 2012 pension charge had the 
revised standard been in force is summarised in the 
table below. 
2012
Current
£m
Reclassify
admin 
costs
£m
Discount
Rate adj
£m
2012
Revised
£m
Operating 
costs 3.3 1.6 — 4.9
Net finance 
charge 0.6 (1.6) 1.2 0.2
Total IAS 19 
charge 3.9 — 1.2 5.1
The £1.6 million increase in operating costs in 2012 
results from the requirement to reclassify pension 
scheme administration costs from net finance charge to 
operating costs, reducing trading profit and net finance 
costs by the same amount and thus not impacting 
earnings. In addition, the revised standard requires the 
expected return on assets to be calculated by applying 
a corporate bond yield discount rate to the balance 
sheet pension-related assets, which has the effect of 
increasing the net interest charge. This would have given 
rise to an additional charge, and therefore reduction 
in pre-tax earnings, of £1.2 million in 2012. The latter 
change, combined with the reduction in 2012 of the 
net accounting surplus in the UK Plan, is projected to 
increase the net finance charge in 2013 by some £2 
million. 
WORKING CAPITAL
We have embarked on a focused effort to reduce 
the level of working capital in our businesses and in 
2012 we saw a reduction in trade and other working 
capital of £11.2 million. Average working capital 
to sales for the year was 27.3% (2011: 26.4%), 
reflecting the fact that the fall in revenue in the 
fourth quarter was steeper than the more continuous 
programme of structural working capital reductions.
CASH FLOW
Free cash flow from continuing operations of £54.2 
million was generated in 2012 (2011: £32.1 million).
Cash generated from continuing operations, 
after capital expenditure but before outflows for 
restructuring, demerger costs and additional pension 
funding contributions, was £131.8 million in 2012 
(2011: £95.8 million); which represents a cash 
conversion rate of 99% (2011: 52%) in relation to 
trading profit from continuing operations.
FUNDING POSITION AND LIQUID RESOURCES
£ million 2012 2011
USPP Notes 153.8 283.7
Drawn credit facility 267.3 260.5
Other debt 3.7 7.8
Cash deposits (129.5) (188.1)
Net Debt 295.3 363.9
The Group is well funded, with £580 million of 
committed debt facilities available, of which £158 
million was undrawn at year end. Of this, £425 million 
is a syndicated revolving credit facility with 16 banks 
which expires in 2016. The remainder comprises the US 
Private Placement notes, of which US$110 million are 
repayable in 2017, with the remaining US$140 million 
repayable in 2020.
Net debt at 31 December of £295.3 million was well 
within existing banking covenants of three times 
EBITDA. 56
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Financial review continued
DIVIDEND
Dividends relating to 2012 amount to 17 pence per 
share. This represents the whole of the 7.5 pence per 
share Cookson Group plc interim dividend declared 
during the year and the 9.5 pence per share dividend 
recommended for approval by the Board to the 
Annual General Meeting in June 2013. 
Dividends paid in 2012 of £61.2 million (2011: £51.8 
million) relate to the entire Cookson Group plc 2011 
final dividend of 14.5 pence per share (2010 final 
dividend: 11.5 pence per share) in addition to the entire 
Cookson Group plc 2012 interim dividend of 7.5 pence 
per share (2011 interim dividend: 7.25 pence per share).
SHARE BUY-BACK
Subject to the successful completion of the disposal 
of the Precious Metals Processing division, the Board 
has decided to return the majority of the net sales 
proceeds to shareholders through an on market share 
buy-back. This demonstrates a desire to exercise 
strong capital discipline and generate superior returns 
to shareholders. The strength of our balance sheet 
and the cash generative nature of our business 
allows us to return this capital to shareholders 
whilst retaining the ability to fund attractive growth 
opportunities as they arise.
DEMERGER COSTS
The cash costs associated with the preparation 
and execution of the demerger of the Alent group 
of businesses from Vesuvius plc, to the extent that 
they have been allocated to Vesuvius, have been 
reported as an exceptional item in the income 
statement. Costs totalling £15.7 million have been 
charged in the year (£10.0 million for Alent), primarily 
relating to professional advisor fees for financial, 
audit, accounting, legal and pensions advice. Fees 
in connection with the negotiated changes to the 
debt arrangements in order to provide Vesuvius with 
ongoing borrowings facilities were £2.0 million and 
have, as required by IFRS, been capitalised against 
the associated borrowings and are being amortised 
over the expected life of those debt arrangements.
Tax-related costs of £11.4 million were incurred by 
Vesuvius (£2.9 million by Alent) in connection with 
the transactions necessary to reorganise the legal 
entity structure to facilitate the demerger. 
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
On 14 December 2012, Vesuvius plc issued 278,448,752 
ordinary shares of 638.5 pence each (£1,777.9 million) to 
the public shareholders of Cookson Group plc in exchange 
for the entire share capital of Cookson Group plc. 
On 19 December 2012, the Company demerged the Alent 
business (formerly the Performance Materials division 
of Cookson Group plc), whereby the share capital of 
the Company was reduced, with £862.4 million repaid 
by way of the transfer by the Company to Alent plc of 
the entire share capital of Alent Investments Limited, in 
consideration of the allotment and issue by Alent plc of 
one Alent plc share for each Vesuvius plc share held by 
the Vesuvius plc shareholders at the date of the demerger; 
and the balance of £887.7 million was retained and 
transferred to the reserves of the Company to be available 
for future distributions, leaving issued share capital of 
£27.8 million.
CHRIS O’SHEA
Chief Financial Officer 
28 March 2013 57
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Key performance indicators
Vesuvius’ Board and executives monitor a large number of financial and non-financial performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to 
measure the Group’s performance over time.
Non-financial KPIs Purpose 2012 performance vs 2011
Lost time injury frequency ❯ Measured to monitor progress towards the 
Group’s goal of zero work-related injuries 
and illness
 ❯ The number of work-related illnesses or 
injuries which resulted in an employee 
being absent from work for at least one 
day, per million hours worked, reduced to 
1.8 from 2.5 in 2011
Research and development (“R&D”) spend ❯ Monitored to ensure that adequate 
resources are being invested to maintain 
the Group’s strong pipeline of new products 
and services
 ❯ R&D spend: £24.5m vs £23.2m in 2011
Total energy consumption ❯ Measured as part of the Group’s 
programme to reduce usage and the 
associated carbon emissions
 ❯ Energy usage in manufacturing operations:
 — Gas use up 0.5%
 — Electricity use down 3.2%
Financial KPIs
Underlying revenue growth ❯ Provides an important indicator of 
organic or “like-for-like” growth of Group 
businesses between reporting periods. This 
measure eliminates the impact of exchange 
rates, acquisitions, disposals and significant 
business closures
 ❯ Underlying revenue growth:
 — Group  down 4%
 — Steel  down 2%
 — Foundry  down 9%
Trading profit, return on sales (“RoS”) ❯ Used to assess the underlying trading 
performance of Group businesses
Continuing operations:
 ❯ Group trading profit:  £133.0m, down 27%
 ❯ RoS:
 — Steel  8.2% down 1.7pts
 — Foundry  9.3% down 3.3pts
Headline profit before tax (“PBT”) and headline 
earnings per share (“EPS”)
 ❯ Used to assess the underlying financial 
performance and earnings capacity of the 
Group as a whole
 ❯ Headline PBT:  £110.9m down 29%
 ❯ Headline EPS:  27.5p down 30%
Free cash flow and average working capital to 
sales ratio
 ❯ Free cash flow is used to assess the 
underlying cash generation of the Group. 
One of the factors driving the generation 
of free cash flow is the average working 
capital to sales ratio, which indicates the 
level of working capital used in the business
Continuing operations:
 ❯ Free cash flow: £54.2m vs £32.1m in 2011
 ❯ Average working capital to sales of 27.3% 
(2011: 26.4%)
Return on net assets (“RONA”) ❯ Used to assess the underlying financial 
performance of the Group’s divisions and 
the Group as a whole
 ❯ Group RONA*:  20.0%
Interest cover ratio and ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA
 ❯ Both ratios are used to assess the financial 
position of the Group and its ability to fund 
future growth
 ❯ Interest cover*:  14.5 times
 ❯ Net debt to  
EBITDA*  1.5 times
* The 2011 balance sheet represents total Cookson Group, making comparative indicators not meaningful. 58
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Principal risks and uncertainties
As described in the Corporate Governance Report, there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by 
Vesuvius. Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit 
Committee on the process of how those risks are being managed. The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management and also reviews the 
role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group. The Board receives regular reports on any major issues that have 
arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Throughout its global operations, Vesuvius faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Group’s 
long-term performance. Vesuvius manages the risks inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and 
to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective. The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face. Some risks are not yet known and 
some that are not currently deemed material could later become material. All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its businesses, results 
of future operations or financial condition.
Risk and impact Mitigation
The financial performance and financial position of Vesuvius may be 
adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand in its core 
end-markets.
The global macroeconomic environment remains uncertain. 
In 2012, following a decline in average monthly steel production 
volumes at the beginning of the second half of the year, the normal 
seasonal strengthening did not occur and, indeed, in September, rather 
than our businesses experiencing the normal seasonal strengthening, 
there were signs of some further weakening in steel production volume 
trends, particularly in the US, Europe and Brazil. The downturn was 
particularly marked in the Foundry division and was principally related to 
the weakness of the car market in Europe and the truck market globally.
Vesuvius supplies predominantly consumable products, on short lead 
times, to the global steel and foundry industries. As such, Vesuvius’ 
expectations of future trading are based upon the Directors’ assessment 
of end-market conditions, which conditions are subject to some 
uncertainty. In the event that end-market conditions suffer significant 
deterioration, Vesuvius may experience reductions in trading activity, 
a lower share price, the financial failure of one or more of its key 
customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability and/or a 
material adverse impact on its financial position.
The Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the 
markets in which the Group operates. The current spread of the Group’s 
major businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, 
provides some protection to the Group should conditions, in particular 
markets, deteriorate. Further, the reduction in the Group’s cost base 
during the last three years provides additional insulation to the adverse 
impact of any near-term market downturn and this, together with the 
level and tenor of the Group’s debt facilities, leads the Directors to 
believe that the Group is well positioned financially to sustain a further 
downturn in end-market activity should this occur. 59
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Risk and impact Mitigation
The Group’s financial position and trading results may be adversely 
affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or the rate 
of inflation.
In the normal course of business, many transactions are carried out 
by Group businesses in currencies other than their reporting currency, 
leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, although this is not 
material for the Group overall. The Group is exposed to the effect of 
translating the results and net assets of its overseas subsidiaries into 
sterling. Significant fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it 
operates, in interest rates, or in rates of inflation may adversely impact 
the Group’s financial position, results of operations and ability to comply 
with its financial covenants.
The Group seeks to manage transactional and balance sheet translation 
risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations through its 
hedging and funding policies and it is Group policy that foreign currency 
transaction exposures that are material at an individual operating unit 
level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign 
exchange contracts. For its key operating currencies, the Group broadly 
matches the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies of 
its asset base, but does not hedge translational impact on the income 
statements of overseas subsidiaries. Where appropriate, the Group 
manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swaps or other 
instruments.
The Group may lose customers to competitors with new or alternative 
technologies if its businesses either do not adequately adapt to 
market developments or are unable to protect, maintain and enforce 
their intellectual property.
The markets in which many of Vesuvius’ businesses operate can 
experience rapid changes due to the introduction of new technologies. 
The continued success of Vesuvius depends upon its ability to continue 
to develop and produce new and enhanced products and services on a 
cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with customer demands. 
In addition, the markets for Vesuvius’ products are competitive in 
terms of pricing, product and service quality, product development and 
introduction time, customer service, financing terms and other similar 
factors. If Vesuvius fails adequately to adapt to market developments 
related to new products and technology, it could lose customers to 
suppliers with better or less costly products.
Throughout its operations, Vesuvius relies on a combination of trade 
secrets, patents, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and 
copyright and trade mark laws to protect its proprietary rights. If 
Vesuvius fails to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its existing 
intellectual property, this may result in the loss of the Group’s exclusive 
right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in 
its businesses. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which 
Vesuvius operates may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent 
as those of, for example, the UK or the USA.
Vesuvius invests significant amounts in research and development and 
endeavours to sustain its competitive advantage and take appropriate 
action to ensure that its cost base remains competitive. In 2012, total 
research and development spend was £24.5 million, equivalent to 1.6% 
of revenue.
The Group applies for patents over its major products, technologies 
and processes in a number of jurisdictions, including in Europe and 
the US. New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly 
monitored and any perceived breach of a Group patent is vigorously 
challenged. To the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key 
intellectual property in countries which do not afford an acceptable 
degree of legal protection to the Group. 60
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk and impact Mitigation
The Group’s financial condition may be materially adversely affected 
by any significant liabilities for any defects of its products or services.
If a product of the Group or of one of the Group’s industrial customers 
does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the 
Group may be subject to claims by its customers arising from end-
product defects, injury to individuals or other such claims. Legal claims 
have been brought against certain Group companies by third parties 
alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous 
materials used by those companies in the manufacture of industrial and 
consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future. 
Certain of the Group’s subsidiaries are subject to suits, predominantly 
in the US, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos 
manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group. 
These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers. To 
date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against 
any of these subsidiaries.
The Board believes that, taking into account legal advice received, the 
Group’s insurance arrangements, indemnification provided by former 
owners of certain of the subsidiaries impacted and financial provisions, 
none of the currently pending or potential claims will, either individually 
or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Group’s 
financial position and results of operations.
The Group’s worldwide operations and businesses may be adversely 
affected by various political, legal, regulatory and other developments 
in countries in which it operates.
Vesuvius is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including 
those covering taxation and environmental matters; and political 
risks including the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory 
requirements, lack of protection for intellectual property rights and the 
volatility of input costs, selling prices, taxes and currencies. In particular, 
operating within the rapidly evolving developing nations can expose 
the Group’s businesses to significant local risks and challenges. Future 
global political, legal or regulatory developments concerning Group 
businesses may affect their ability to operate and to operate profitably 
in the affected jurisdictions. Should Group businesses fail to comply 
with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, this may result in a 
financial loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
The Group’s businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, 
including natural catastrophe, terrorist action, theft, fraud and, 
particularly in developing nations, insufficient supply of high-quality 
local management and technical personnel. If any of the operational 
risks materialise to a significant extent, this could result in a substantial 
interruption to a facility, loss of future insurance cover, a potential loss of 
customers and revenue and financial loss.
As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, 
or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes 
a rigorous assessment of the risks involved. In addition, the spread 
of the Group’s major businesses, both geographically and by end-
market served, provides some protection to the Group should any of its 
businesses be adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or other changes 
in an individual market or territory.
The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its 
businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the 
operational risks which they face. 61
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Our Performance
Risk and impact Mitigation
A withdrawal or reduction of precious metal consignment 
arrangements, or increased precious metal prices resulting in 
consignment lines being fully utilised, may cause a shortage of raw 
materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized 
and may result in a short-term material increase in the Group’s 
financial indebtedness.
The Group’s precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant 
quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value. These metals are 
held predominantly on consignment under uncommitted contractual 
arrangements whereby the consignor has the right to demand physical 
return or purchase of its consigned metal. Should precious metals 
consignors decide to reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever 
reason, or require a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal 
prices lead to the consignment arrangements becoming fully utilised, the 
Group’s precious metal fabrication operations may suffer shortages of 
raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized in 
order to be able to operate within its available consignment facilities. In 
the short - term this may require precious metals to be purchased, which 
could materially increase the Group’s financial indebtedness pending 
completion of the downsizing.
The utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the 
precious metals industry. The Group has successfully maintained precious 
metal consignment arrangements of this nature for over 20 years. 
Vesuvius has close commercial relationships with its group of consignor 
banks. Management seek to operate the business at all times with 
appropriate headroom within the consignment facilities, taking account 
of anticipated levels of business activity and precious metals prices.
The sale of the Group’s Precious Metals Processing division will remove 
this risk. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
62
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
1
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE 
Chairman
John McDonough was appointed as a Director and 
Chairman of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012.
John was Group Chief Executive Officer of Carillion 
plc, the support services and construction firm, for 
11 years until he retired in 2011. Prior to joining 
Carillion plc he spent nine years at Johnson Controls 
Inc. working for the automotive systems division, 
initially in the UK, before moving to become Vice 
President of the division’s European operations and 
ultimately to Singapore to develop the business in 
Asia Pacific. He then returned to the UK as VP of the 
integrated facilities management division for EMEA. 
John served as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Tomkins plc from 2007 to 2010 and 
as a non-executive director of Exel plc from 2004 to 
2005. He joined The Vitec Group plc in March 2012, 
and has served as Chairman since June 2012. John 
McDonough is a British citizen.
FRANÇOIS WANECQ 
Chief Executive
François Wanecq was appointed as a Director of 
Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. He previously 
joined the Cookson Group plc Board in February 
2010. François has been the Chief Executive Officer 
of Cookson’s Engineered Ceramics division since 
October 2005. Prior to joining Cookson he held a 
series of senior rnanagement roles at ArjoWiggins 
Group and served as an executive director of 
ArjoWiggins Appleton plc from 1999 until it was 
delisted. From 1985 to 1995 he was Managing 
Director of the technical ceramics division of the 
Saint-Gobain Group. François is currently the 
Chairman of the European Refractory Association 
(PRE).  François Wanecq is a French citizen. 
2
CHRIS O’SHEA
Chief Financial Officer
Chris O’Shea was appointed as a Director of 
Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012, having joined 
Cookson Group plc on 11 October 2012. Prior to 
joining Cookson, Chris held a number of senior 
finance roles at BG Group, latterly serving as CFO 
for the group’s businesses in Africa, the Middle East 
and Asia. From 1998 to 2005 Chris worked in the 
UK, the US and Nigeria for Royal Dutch Shell in a 
variety of roles, including CFO for Shell’s offshore 
exploration and production business in Nigeria. 
Chris is a Chartered Accountant with an MBA from 
Duke University and has also worked for Ernst & 
Young. Chris O’Shea is a British citizen.
3
Board of Directors
1
4
7
2
5
8
3
6
9 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
63
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
CHRISTER GARDELL
Non-executive Director 
Christer Gardell was appointed as a Director of 
Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012 having previously 
joined the Cookson Group plc Board in June 2012. 
Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital 
which held just over 20% of Vesuvius’ issued share 
capital on the date of his appointment. Christer 
co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002. From 1996 
to 2001, he was the Chief Executive Officer of AB 
Custos, the Swedish investment company. Prior to 
joining AB Custos he had been a partner of Nordic 
Capital and McKinsey & Company. Christer is a non-
executive Director of the global Finnish technology 
and services company Metso Corporation. He 
served as a non-executive director of A B Lindex 
until December 2007 and of Tieto Corporation until 
March 2012. Christer Gardell is a Swedish citizen.
4
JEFF HEWITT
Non-executive Director & Audit 
Committee Chair
Jeff Hewitt was appointed as a Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Vesuvius 
plc on 31 October 2012 having previously joined 
the Cookson Group plc Board in June 2005. Jeff 
was previously Deputy Chairman and Group 
Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc. He is a 
non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
committees of Cenkos Securities plc and Foreign 
& Colonial Investment Trust plc. He is also the 
Chairman of Electrocomponents Pension Trustees 
Limited. 
Jeff will take over from John Sussens as Senior 
Independent Director when John retires from the 
Board immediately following the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting. Jeff Hewitt is a Chartered 
Accountant and a British citizen.
5
JAN OOSTERVELD
Non-executive Director
Jan Oosterveld was appointed as a Director of 
Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. He previously 
joined the Cookson Board in June 2004. Jan will 
retire as a Director immediately following Vesuvius’ 
2013 Annual General Meeting. Jan spent 32 years 
with Royal Philips Electronics, where he was a 
member of the Group Management Committee 
with responsibility for corporate strategy, the Chief 
Executive of Philips Asia Pacific and the Chairman 
of LG Philips LCD. He is a non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
of Candover Investments plc and a non-executive 
Corporate Director of Barco N.V ., He is also a 
Director of Alent plc. He served as Chairman of the 
supervisory board of Crucell N.V , until December 
2011. Jan is also a professor at IESE Business School 
in Barcelona. Jan Oosterveld is a Dutch citizen.
6
JOHN SUSSENS 
Senior Independent Director & 
Remuneration Committee Chair
John Sussens was appointed as a Director and 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of Vesuvius plc on  
31 October 2012. He previously joined the Cookson 
Group plc Board in May 2004. John will retire as 
a Director immediately following Vesuvius’ 2013 
Annual General Meeting. John was Managing 
Director of Misys plc until 2004. He is currently 
senior Independent non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of 
Admiral Group plc. He served until March 2011 as a 
non-executive director of Anglo & Overseas plc.  
John Sussens is a British citizen. 
7
JANE HINKLEY
Non-executive Director & 
Remuneration Committee Chair 
Designate
Jane Hinkley was appointed as a Director of 
Vesuvius plc on 3 December 2012. She will take 
over from John Sussens as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee when John retires from 
the Board immediately following the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting. Jane is currently a non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Premier Oil plc. She also serves as a 
non-executive Director of Teekay GP L.L.C. 
Jane spent a large part of her career working at 
Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation, the LNG 
shipping specialist which was listed on both the 
London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. She served 
as CFO from 1988–1992, and as Managing Director 
until 1997. In 1998 Jane was appointed Managing 
Director of Navion Shipping AS, a position she held 
until 2001. Jane is a Chartered Accountant and a 
British citizen.
NELDA CONNORS 
Non-executive Director
Nelda was appointed a Director of Vesuvius plc 
on 1 March 2013. From 2008 to 2011 Nelda was 
President and CEO of Tyco International, Electrical & 
Metal Products division (renamed Atkore International 
in 2010). Prior to that she spent six years at 
Eaton Corporation, in a number of international 
management roles which included nearly four years 
based in Shanghai. Nelda spent much of her early 
career in the automotive industry working for Ford, 
Chrysler and Mogami Denki, a Toyota supplier. During 
this period she undertook roles in plant management, 
engineering, quality, customer service and strategic 
planning and worked in the US, Europe and Asia 
Pacific. Nelda is currently a non-executive director 
of Blount International, Inc., and Boston Scientific 
Corporation. She also sits on the Board of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago and is Chairwoman and 
Founder of Pine Grove Holdings, LLC, a consultancy 
that provides advisory services to private equity and 
investment firms and limited investments to small and 
mid-sized businesses. Nelda Connors is a US citizen.
8 9 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
64
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Corporate governance report
“Following the demerger in December 2012, the Board of Vesuvius plc 
has established a sound corporate governance structure for the new 
stand-alone business. ” 
JOHN MCDONOUGH CBE, CHAIRMAN
INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
Maintaining good governance is a key priority for Vesuvius and much 
of the framework we have adopted builds on the solid structure that 
Cookson Group plc had set out in this regard prior to the demerger. 
The Corporate Governance Report provides a detailed review of the 
Company’s approach and the systems we have put in place.
BOARD
As reported in my Chairman’s statement we have built a strong Board 
for the new Company. We are delighted to have welcomed two women 
onto the Board, Nelda Connors and Jane Hinkley. We continue to 
look at diversity in its broadest sense; this is reflected in the range of 
backgrounds and experience of our Board members. We believe that it is 
important to get the right balance of independence, skills and knowledge, 
both on the Board and across our businesses. All our Board appointments 
have been, and will continue to be, made on merit to ensure that at all 
times we have the most effective team to lead the Company in delivering 
long-term shareholder value.
As Chairman, I recognise my role in ensuring that the Company is led 
by an effective Board. Key to this is not only the calibre of the Directors 
appointed, but also ensuring they attain an appropriate understanding 
of the business, continue to refresh their skills and knowledge and 
are able to devote sufficient time to their roles. It is also important 
that there be clear definition and structure of the Board’s ongoing 
responsibilities and priorities. It is critical that open and transparent 
debate is encouraged, and that the Non-executive Directors work 
effectively with the management team to achieve long-term success.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a keen focus on 
risk. Its annual review for 2012 of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of risk management and internal control covered the whole of 
the year, including a review of the results of the work of the Internal 
Audit function and the senior management’s self-certification exercise. 
This process required senior financial and operational management 
throughout the Group to certify the effectiveness of internal controls 
within the businesses for which they are responsible, together with 
their compliance throughout the whole year with the Group’s (and 
Cookson’s, as appropriate) policies and procedures.
REMUNERATION
In setting the remuneration policy and structure for the new Group, 
we were mindful of the current environment around executive 
remuneration and the need to clearly link pay to the delivery of 
performance. We set out more details on our approach in our 
Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 92.
Yours sincerely
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE
Chairman
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
65
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Contents
66 LEADERSHIP
The Board
The Chairman and the Chief Executive
The Non-Executive Directors
The Senior Independent Director
The Company Secretary
Board Meetings
Board Committees
68 EFFECTIVENESS
Board Composition
Appointments to the Board
Time Commitment of the Chairman and  
Non-executive Directors
Induction and Training
Information and Support
Performance Evaluation
Election of Directors
Directors’ Indemnities
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
70 ACCOUNTABILITY
The Audit Committee
Financial and Business Reporting
Risk Management and Internal Control
Reviewing the Effectiveness of Internal Controls
Executive Compensation and Risk
71 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
72 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
75 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
76 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
93 DIRECTORS’ REPORT 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
66
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Corporate governance report continued
The Board of Vesuvius plc (“the Company”), is responsible for the 
Group’s system of corporate governance and is committed to maintaining 
high standards. In preparation for the Company’s listing following the 
demerger of Cookson Group, a full review of corporate governance 
arrangements was undertaken. These arrangements were summarised 
in the prospectus relating to the Company’s listing published on 
1 November 2012. This report describes the Company’s corporate 
governance structure and explains how Vesuvius plc has applied the 
main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 (“the Code”) since the date of 
its incorporation (17 September 2012) to 31 December 2012. The report 
also explains how the Company plans to apply the main principles of the 
Code going forward. 
For the period from incorporation to listing on 17 December 2012, the 
Company did not comply with the provisions of the Code. The Board 
believes that, for the period from 17 December to 31 December 2012, 
with the exception of completing the Directors’ induction and undertaking 
a Board evaluation, which were not possible given the time available, 
Vesuvius plc has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
LEADERSHIP
THE BOARD
Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests with the 
Board of Directors. The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy 
issues and is responsible for the Group’s long-term success. It approves 
the Group’s strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors 
the performance of the Group in pursuit of this, all within the context of 
ensuring that the Group operates within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing. 
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and promoting 
high standards of corporate governance. He ensures that there is a 
clear structure for the operation of the Board and its Committees and 
encourages open communication between all Directors. In conjunction 
with the Company Secretary and Chief Executive, he sets the Board 
agenda and ensures that the Board receives accurate, relevant and timely 
information about the Company’s affairs. The Chairman meets routinely 
with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary to discuss relevant 
matters. The Chairman also serves as Chairman of The Vitec Group plc. 
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and does, devote 
sufficient time to his duties at Vesuvius.
The Chief Executive manages the Group. He is responsible for 
developing the Group’s strategic direction for consideration and 
approval by the Board. He has day to day responsibility for managing 
the Group’s operations, for the application of the Group’s policies and 
for the implementation of the agreed strategy. He is accountable to, 
and reports to, the Board on the performance of the business. 
THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and experience 
to the Board. They represent a strong, independent element on the 
Board and are well-placed to constructively challenge and support 
management. They help to shape the Company’s strategy, scrutinising 
the performance of management in meeting the Company’s objectives 
and monitor the reporting of performance. Their role is also to satisfy 
themselves with regard to the integrity of the Group’s financial 
information and to ensure that the Group’s financial controls and risk 
management systems are robust and defensible. As members of the 
Remuneration Committee, the independent Non-executive Directors 
determine the appropriate level of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors, and as members of the Nominations Committee the Non-
executive Directors play a pivotal role in Board succession planning and 
the appointment of new Executive Directors.
THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors to act as 
Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative contact at Board 
level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be 
addressed. The Senior Independent Director also acts as a sounding board 
for the Chairman and, should it be required, can act as an intermediary 
for the concerns of other Non-executive Directors. He is responsible for 
undertaking the annual evaluation of the Chairman’s performance and for 
leading the recruitment process for a new Chairman, when required.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman on Board corporate 
governance matters, in particular in planning the agenda for the annual 
cycles of Board and committee meetings, and ensuring information is 
available for the Board in a timely manner . He ensures that there is an 
appropriate level of communication between the Board and its committees 
and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors. He also 
keeps the Board apprised of developments in relevant legislative, regulatory 
and governance matters, facilitates Directors’ induction and assists with 
professional development as required. 
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates 
certain matters to committees as outlined below. It is anticipated that the 
Board will convene on seven formal scheduled occasions during 2013 
as well as holding a number of ad hoc committee meetings to consider 
non-routine business. In addition, it is envisaged that the Chairman 
and the other Non-executive Directors will meet routinely on their own 
without the Executive Directors present. At least once each year the Non-
executive Directors will meet without the Chairman present to discuss 
matters such as the Chairman’s performance.
Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group 
and divisional performance; approving significant transactions 
including acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and changes 
to the Group’s capital structure; setting and approving the Group’s 
strategy and annual budget; approving the Group’s financing and  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
67
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
treasury policies; declaration of dividends; succession planning; and 
approving Board appointments and the remuneration of the Non-
executive Directors. Furthermore, the Board considers health, safety 
and environmental matters and maintains overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and risk management processes. 
BOARD COMMITTEES
The principal governance committees of the Board are the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees. In addition, the Board 
delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the Finance and 
Share Schemes committees.
Role Chair of Committee Membership
Minimum number of 
meetings per year
Audit Committee To monitor the integrity of financial 
reporting and to assist the Board in 
its review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems.
Jeff Hewitt All independent Non-
executive Directors.
Three.
Remuneration 
Committee
To determine the appropriate 
remuneration packages for the 
Group’s Chairman, Executive 
Directors, and Company Secretary, 
and to recommend and monitor the 
level and structure of remuneration 
for other Senior Management.
John Sussens All independent Non-
executive Directors.
As necessary, (it is 
anticipated that at least 
three meetings will be held 
each year).
Nominations 
Committee
To advise the Board on appointments, 
retirements and resignations from the 
Board and its committees and review 
succession planning for the Board.
John McDonough, the 
Chairman (except where 
considering his own 
succession or replacement 
in which case the 
Committee is chaired by 
John Sussens, the Senior 
Independent Director).
The Chairman and any 
three Non-executive 
Directors.
As necessary.
Finance Committee To approve specific funding and 
treasury related matters as set out in 
the Group’s delegated authorities or as 
delegated from time-to-time by  
the Board.
The Chairman The Chairman, Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial 
Officer and Group Treasurer .
As necessary.
Share Schemes 
Committee
To facilitate the administration of 
the Company’s share schemes.
Any member. Any two Directors. As necessary.
Each committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board. These are available to view on the Company’s website — www.vesuvius.com.
In addition to these formal Board Committees, the Group also operates an Executive Committee. This Committee, which is chaired by the Chief 
Executive, assists the Chief Executive in discharging his responsibilities. It is responsible for the executive management of the Group’s businesses 
and comprises the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the five Business Unit Presidents, and the three Vice 
Presidents of Human Resources, Research and Development, and Manufacturing, Engineering, QHSE and Purchasing. The Executive Committee is 
scheduled to meet six times during 2013. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
68
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Corporate governance report continued
The attendance of Directors who served between 31 October 2012 (when the formal Board of Vesuvius plc was appointed) and 31 December 2012, 
at the Board and principal committee meetings held during this period, is shown in the table below. The maximum number of meetings in the 
period when the individual was a Board member is shown in brackets.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
Chairman
John McDonough CBE 1(2) n/a n/a 1(1)
Executive Directors
Chris O’Shea 2(2) n/a n/a n/a
François Wanecq 2(2) n/a n/a n/a
Non-executive Directors
Christer Gardell 2(2) n/a n/a 1(1)
Jeff Hewitt 2(2) 1(1) 1(1) 1(1)
Jane Hinkley 1(1) 1(1) 1(1) 1(1)
Jan Oosterveld 2(2) 1(1) 1(1) 1(1)
John Sussens 2(2) 1(1) 1(1) 1(1)
The Directors also held a number of informal meetings prior to their 
appointment to the Board to discuss matters pertaining to the demerger 
of Cookson Group and the set up and constitution of the new plc. 
Messrs Bryan Elliston and Richard Malthouse served as the initial 
Directors of the Company from the date of incorporation until the 
formal Board was appointed on 31 October 2012. They attended 
two Board meetings of the Company during this period.
EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board currently has nine Directors, comprising the Non-executive 
Chairman, John McDonough CBE; the Chief Executive, François 
Wanecq; the Chief Financial Officer, Chris O’Shea; and six Non-
executive Directors. Richard Malthouse serves as Company Secretary. 
The Board seeks to ensure that both it, and its committees, have the 
appropriate range of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 
of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties 
and responsibilities effectively. The Board considers its size to be 
appropriate for the requirements of the business. The Non-executive 
Directors are drawn from different nationalities and have significant 
experience of managing complex global manufacturing businesses. 
No-one other than committee chairmen and members of the Committees 
are entitled to be present at meetings of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees, but others may attend by invitation.
The Board considers the majority of the Non-executive Directors, 
namely Nelda Connors, Jeff Hewitt, Jane Hinkley, Jan Oosterveld and 
John Sussens, to be independent of management and free from any 
business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of their 
independent judgement. Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian 
Capital which holds 20% of Vesuvius’ issued ordinary share capital and 
is therefore not considered to be independent. The Chairman satisfied 
the independence criteria on his appointment to the Board. Mr Sussens 
currently serves as Senior Independent Director.
Messrs Oosterveld and Sussens intend to retire as Directors of Vesuvius 
plc immediately following the 2013 Annual General Meeting. Ms 
Hinkley will then become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Mr Hewitt will assume the role of Senior Independent Director. The 
biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 62 and 63.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the 
Nominations Committee. The Nominations Committee follows a 
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of 
new Directors to the Board. Board appointments are made on merit 
against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post. 
Non-executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they 
have sufficient time to devote to the role. The Nominations Committee 
is responsible for reviewing the Board succession plans to ensure 
that plans are in place for the appropriate refreshing and orderly 
succession of Board directorships. Further information is set out in the 
Nominations Committee Report on page 75.
TIME COMMITMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN AND THE NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter of 
appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship. 
An indication of the anticipated time commitment was provided in their 
recruitment role specification, and their letters of appointment provide 
details of the meetings that they are expected to attend, along with 
indicating the need to accommodate travelling time (particularly for 
overseas trips) and to set aside sufficient time to prepare for meetings, 
and to regularly refresh and update their skills and knowledge. All 
Directors agree to commit sufficient time for the proper performance of 
their responsibilities and understand that this will vary from year to year 
depending on the Group’s activities. Directors are expected to attend  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
69
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
all Board meetings and any additional meetings (including committee 
meetings) as required. Directors’ other significant commitments are 
disclosed to the Board at the time of their appointment and they are 
required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes. The Company has 
reviewed the availability of the Non-executive Directors and considers that 
each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount 
of time to the Company’s business. 
INDUCTION AND TRAINING
A comprehensive induction programme has been created for new 
Directors. This includes visits to manufacturing facilities, meetings with 
key Group executives and introductions to the Company’s principal 
external advisers, as appropriate. Reference materials are provided, 
including information about the Board, its committees, Directors’ duties, 
procedures for dealing in the Company’s shares and other regulatory 
and governance matters, and Directors are advised of their legal and 
other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company. 
It is envisaged that the Chairman will meet with Directors on an 
ongoing basis to review any training and development needs. In 
addition, the Directors are provided with details of seminars and 
training courses relevant to their role. They are encouraged to attend 
these as they consider appropriate and are supported by the Company 
in so doing. Where a general training need is identified, in-house 
training will be provided to the entire Board. 
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
The Board has in place processes to ensure that it is supplied in a 
timely manner with information of an appropriate quality to enable it 
to adequately discharge its responsibilities. Papers are provided to the 
Directors in advance of the relevant Board or committee meeting to 
enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the 
meeting should they so wish. This also allows Directors who are unable 
to attend to submit views in advance of the meeting. The Company 
Secretary’s role in facilitating the appropriate flow of information is 
described in further detail under the role description above. The Chief 
Executive provides, as a matter of routine, a written update on important 
business issues between meetings and invites the views of the Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, 
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice if 
necessary, at the Company’s expense.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board of Vesuvius 
plc intends to undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own 
performance and effectiveness and to assess the performance of its 
committees and individual Board members on an annual basis. The 
Board will consider the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity, including 
gender, how the Board works together as a unit and other factors 
relevant to its effectiveness.
The Chairman will be responsible for, and will lead, the evaluation 
process and will be assisted by the Company Secretary. The Senior 
Independent Director will be responsible for the performance 
evaluation of the Chairman.
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies 
be subject to annual election by shareholders. All the Directors will 
therefore be offering themselves for election at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), with the exception of Messrs Oosterveld 
and Sussens who will be retiring as Directors at the AGM. The 
biographical details of each of the Directors, including details of their 
other directorships and relevant skills and experience, are set out in 
the 2013 Notice of AGM. The Board believes that each of the Directors 
standing for election is effective and demonstrates commitment 
to their respective roles. Accordingly, the Board recommends that 
shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 
AGM relating to the election of the Directors.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, 
the Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity 
Provisions by the Company and the directors of the Group’s UK 
Pension Plan Trustee Board (none of whom are Directors of Vesuvius 
plc) have been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity 
Provisions by Cookson Pension Plans Trustees Ltd. The indemnities 
for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force since the date of 
their appointment. The Pension Trustee indemnities were in force 
throughout the last financial year and remain in force.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board 
to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a 
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with 
the interests of the Company (“Situational Conflicts”). The Board 
has established a formal system for Directors to declare Situational 
Conflicts so that they can be considered for authorisation by the 
remaining members of the Board. In deciding whether to authorise a 
Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act 
in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success 
of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when 
giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate. 
The Company Secretary records the consideration of any conflict 
and records any authorisations granted. The Board believes that the 
systems it has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continue to 
operate effectively. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
70
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Corporate governance report continued
ACCOUNTABILITY
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The membership of the Audit Committee is set out on page 72. The 
Audit Committee report which summarises the terms of reference 
of the Audit Committee and describes its work in discharging its 
responsibilities is set out on pages 72 to 74.
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING
The Business Review referenced on page 93 sets out explanations for 
the basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the 
longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group. 
A statement of the Directors’ responsibility for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts is set out on page 100 and a statement by 
the Auditor, KPMG LLP about its reporting responsibilities is set out 
on page 101. As detailed on page 93, the Directors consider that 
the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly, 
they have adopted a going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements of the Group and the Company.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and 
maintenance of the Group’s system of risk management and internal 
control, and for reviewing its effectiveness. This system is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and 
safeguard assets. No system of internal control can provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Group’s system 
is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance 
that problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with 
appropriately. In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the 
Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control and that the necessary actions have 
been taken to remedy and control any control weaknesses identified 
during the year. Since the date of this review there have been no 
significant changes in internal controls or other matters which could 
significantly affect them.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal control, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls, and risk management systems. The key 
features of the Group’s system of internal control include:
Strategy and financial reporting
The Group operates a comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting 
process, with an annual budget approved by the Board. Monthly 
operating financial information is reported against this budget and key 
trends and variances analysed. Action is then taken as appropriate. 
Group accounting policies and procedures are formulated and 
disseminated to all Group operations, covering the application of 
accounting standards and the maintenance of accounting records and 
key financial control procedures. 
Operational controls 
Each operating company, including the Corporate offices, maintains 
internal controls and procedures appropriate to its structure and 
business environment, whilst complying with Group policies on items 
such as the authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions 
and the management of intellectual property. 
In addition, the Group’s financial reporting process, including the 
preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, 
incorporates the dissemination and use of common accounting policies 
and procedures and financial reporting software. 
The Board considers significant financing and investment decisions 
concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and 
indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing 
treasury risk. 
Risk assessment and management
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
any significant risks faced by Vesuvius and, previously, Cookson. Group 
management operates a risk management process designed to identify 
the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how 
those risks are being managed. As a basis for this report, each of the 
Group’s major business units produces a “risk map” which identifies 
their key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks occurring, their 
impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those 
risks to a desired level. 
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in 
managing risks across the Group, receives reports on any major issues 
that arise and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have 
changed.
REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
The internal control system is monitored and supported by the Group’s 
internal audit function. This function assists management and the 
Board in the effective discharge of its responsibility for internal control 
by conducting reviews of Vesuvius’ businesses and reporting objectively 
both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal 
control in place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance 
with applicable Group policies and procedures. The Audit Committee 
receives reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit and reports to 
the Board on the results of its review.  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
71
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
As part of the Board’s process for reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control, it delegates the following matters to the 
Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: 
❯ ❯ review of external and internal audit work plans; 
❯ ❯ consideration of reports from management, internal audit and 
external audit on the system of internal control and any significant 
control weaknesses; and 
❯ ❯ discussions with management on the actions taken on problem 
areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in 
external audit management letters. 
At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of 
internal financial controls and of the processes covering other 
controls, the Board evaluated the results of the internal control and 
risk management procedures conducted by senior management. 
This included a self-certification exercise by which senior financial 
and operational management throughout the Group certified the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control within the businesses 
for which they were responsible, together with their compliance 
throughout the year with the Group’s policies and procedures. 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND RISK
All the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees. They are therefore able to bring their 
experience and knowledge of the activities of each committee to bear 
when considering the critical judgements of the other. This means 
that the Directors are in a position to consider carefully the impact of 
incentive arrangements on the Group’s risk profile and to ensure the 
Group’s remuneration policy and programme is structured so as to 
accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company. 
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board seeks to ensure effective engagement with shareholders 
through the Company’s regular communications, the AGM and other 
investor relations activities.
Prior to the demerger of Cookson Group, the Company held a Capital 
Markets Day to provide the Group’s stakeholders with more detailed 
insight into the Group’s future strategy and investment proposition. The 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer then led a series of meetings 
with investors to promote the new Company. In addition, the Senior 
Independent Director, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
met with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies 
to discuss the proposals for the Company’s new remuneration policy.
The Company’s investor relations programme is managed by the Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer. The majority of meetings with 
investors are led by them, but the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and other Directors are also be available to meet with 
significant shareholders as appropriate. 
The Company will report its financial results to shareholders twice 
a year, with the publication of its Annual and Half-Yearly Financial 
Reports, and will issue two further trading updates each year with the 
publication of its Interim Management Statements. In conjunction with 
these announcements, presentations or teleconference calls will be held 
with institutional investors and analysts. Recordings of these will be 
made available on the Group’s website along with hard copies of any 
presentation materials issued — www.vesuvius.com. 
Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions will be provided 
to the Board. Board members will continue to receive copies of 
significant analysts’ notes issued on the Company. All Directors are 
expected to attend the Company’s AGM, providing shareholders with 
the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, 
either during the meeting or informally afterwards. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
72
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Audit committee report
MEMBERS
Jeff Hewitt (Committee Chairman)
Nelda Connors
Jane Hinkley 
Jan Oosterveld
John Sussens
The Audit Committee members are the independent Non-executive 
Directors. The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Hewitt, a qualified 
accountant. The Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least 
one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Board considers that Mr Hewitt possesses the requisite 
financial experience to meet this requirement. 
The Audit Committee has only held two meetings since the 
incorporation of the Company but detailed plans are in place for the 
structure of meetings for the forthcoming year, and the operation of the 
Committee.
At the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman, the Chairman, non-
independent Non-executive Director - Christer Gardell, Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of 
Internal Audit and the Company’s Auditor, KPMG LLP , attend meetings. 
Other executives are invited to attend as and when appropriate. It 
is envisaged that the Audit Committee will meet regularly with the 
Company’s Auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit without any 
executives being present.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference that will 
be reviewed on a regular basis. These terms of reference authorise the 
Committee to obtain outside legal or other independent professional 
advice at the cost of the Company and to secure the attendance at 
Audit Committee meetings of other parties with relevant experience 
and expertise should it be considered necessary. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit 
Committee meetings to the Board and all members of the Board receive 
the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The primary role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are:
❯ ❯ monitoring the integrity of the Company’s half-year and annual 
financial statements, the Interim Management Statements and any 
other formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial 
performance;
❯ ❯ reviewing the process whereby the Board assesses the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems;
❯ ❯ establishing and reviewing procedures for detecting fraud, and 
systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, along with 
overseeing the Company’s arrangements for employees to raise 
concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other 
matters;
❯ ❯ monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function;
❯ ❯ monitoring and reviewing the Auditor’s independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory 
requirements;
❯ ❯ making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and 
dismissal of the Auditor and approving the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the Auditor; and
❯ ❯ helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by 
providing a direct channel of communication between it and the  
Non-executive Directors.
ACTIVITIES
During the period since incorporation, the Audit Committee has met 
on two occasions. In respect of all matters considered by the Audit 
Committee, it believes that it received sufficient, reliable and timely 
information from management and the Auditor, to enable it to fulfil its 
responsibilities.
During the past year Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens served 
as members of the Cookson Group plc Audit Committee before the 
Vesuvius Audit Committee was established. The Cookson Group plc 
Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as follows:
❯ ❯ at its meeting in July 2012 the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed 
the Company’s Half-Yearly Report. In doing so, the Committee 
received reports from management on significant aspects of the 
Group’s financial statements, including matters requiring significant 
“The Audit Committee plays a key role in monitoring the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
and external audit functions. The Committee also assists the Board in 
assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls.”
JEFF HEWITT, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
73
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
management judgement, asset impairment valuation, amounts 
reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items and contingent 
liabilities, and received reports from the Auditor identifying any 
accounting or judgemental issues thereon requiring its attention;
❯ ❯ at each of its meetings, the Cookson Audit Committee received 
reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit covering, amongst 
other things, the work undertaken by the internal audit function 
and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports 
issued by the function during the year. In addition, at the July 
2012 meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed the results 
of the assessments that were undertaken of the performance of 
the internal audit function and at the October 2012 meeting, the 
Committee reviewed and approved the 2013 internal audit plans, 
submitted by the Group Head of Internal Audit;
❯ ❯ the Cookson Audit Committee also reviewed the Auditor’s control 
findings;
❯ ❯ at the July 2012 meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed 
the results of the assessment which had been undertaken of the 
performance of the Auditor, based upon feedback received from 
the Group’s finance management. No significant problems were 
identified with the relationship and quality of audit by KPMG; 
❯ ❯ also at the July meeting, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed 
and agreed the audit plan presented by the Auditor, which detailed 
the approach and scope of the work to be undertaken and the level 
of fee to be charged; and
❯ ❯ at its meeting in October 2012 the Cookson Audit Committee 
reviewed the risk management process operated by management 
designed to identify the key risks facing each business and how 
those risks have been managed;
❯ ❯ in addition, the Cookson Audit Committee reviewed the financial 
disclosures in relation to the demerger, including considering 
relevant matters in relation to the accounting treatment of the 
demerger and the production of the financial statements for the 
two new plc’s. The Cookson Audit Committee also considered the 
Audit and Internal Audit requirements for the two new companies 
and approved the establishment of appropriate systems and 
procedures for them. 
Since its establishment,the Vesuvius Audit Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities as follows: 
❯ ❯ at its meeting in December 2012, the Audit Committee considered 
the major reporting and accounting matters likely to arise 
in connection with the production of the year-end financial 
statements of Vesuvius plc; progress with the Auditor’s year-end 
internal controls review and received an update on internal audit; 
and
❯ ❯ at its meeting in March 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the 
Company’s Annual Results Announcement and Annual Report 
and Accounts. It also reviewed a report from management which 
addressed the appropriateness of the production of the Group and 
Company financial statements on a going concern basis; reviewed 
the Group’s procedures for the identification, management and 
control of specific areas of risk which impact the Company and the 
Group; was presented with information on significant litigation 
involving the Group; received an update from Internal Audit 
and reviewed the independence of the Company’s Auditor and 
considered its re-appointment.
It is envisaged that the Vesuvius Audit Committee will continue 
to adopt a similar approach to the structuring of meetings as that 
operated by Cookson, although this will obviously evolve in line with 
changing best practice. In particular during 2013, in compliance 
with the revised code, the Committee will review its scope and 
accountabilities to ensure that, if requested by the Board, it can monitor 
the effectiveness of the Group’s reporting processes and thence provide 
advice on whether the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable.
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of 
the Auditor. In undertaking this duty, in relation to the reappointment 
of the Auditor for 2013, the Committee was cognisant of the need to 
consider a number of factors concerning the Auditor and the Group’s 
current activity, including: 
❯ ❯ the quality of reports provided by the Auditor to the Audit 
Committee and the Board and of advice given; 
❯ ❯ the level of understanding demonstrated of the Group’s businesses;
❯ ❯ the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision of non-
audit services; 
❯ ❯ the objectivity of the Auditor’s views on the controls throughout the 
Group; 
❯ ❯ its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines; 
❯ ❯ the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the audit 
costs of comparable UK companies; 
❯ ❯ the tenure of the Auditor with the Company’s predecessor Cookson 
Group plc; and 
❯ ❯ the ongoing rotation of the lead audit partner assigned to the 
Group’s audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered external reviews of the 
performance and quality of the Auditor, including:
❯ ❯ the annual report issued by the Audit Inspection Unit of the 
Financial Reporting Council on the work of the Auditor; and
❯ ❯ the Auditor’s own annual Transparency Report. 
KPMG or its predecessor firms have a long-standing tenure as the 
Auditor of Cookson Group plc. The services of KPMG were retained by 
the Company during the demerger of Cookson Group as it represented 
the most efficient and cost-effective provider to undertake the audit 
work necessary. The lead audit partner was changed during 2012 in 
accordance with external partner rotation requirements. KPMG’s audit of 
the Company and Group’s 2012 year-end built on the work undertaken 
in respect of the demerger. KPMG has been the Company’s Auditor since  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
74
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Audit committee report continued
the date of incorporation, 17 September 2012. The Audit Committee 
is cognisant of the Auditor’s previous long-standing relationship with 
Cookson, and is conscious of the transitional arrangements specified in 
the FRC’s guidance on audit tendering. The Audit Committee intends to 
review the need for a tendering process in due course. In the meantime, 
given the recency of the lead partner rotation and taking into account the 
performance of the Auditor during the past year, the Audit Committee is 
recommending the Auditor for reappointment in 2013.
The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include any 
contractual obligations which would prevent the Directors appointing a 
different audit firm should this be considered appropriate.
INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY OF AUDITOR 
The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the 
independence and objectivity of the Auditor is continually maintained. 
It has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the 
external audit is not compromised. These safeguards include:
❯ ❯ seeking ongoing confirmation that the Auditor is independent of 
the Company in its own professional judgement; and
❯ ❯ considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the 
Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit 
services and whether these impair, or appear to impair, the 
Auditor’s judgement or independence.
The Audit Committee monitors the other services being provided to the 
Group by the Auditor. The Company has a policy governing the Group-
wide conduct of non-audit work by the Auditor to ensure that this does 
not impair its independence or objectivity. The Auditor is prohibited 
from performing services where it:
❯ ❯ may be required to audit its own work;
❯ ❯ would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken 
by management;
❯ ❯ is remunerated through a “success fee” structure; or
❯ ❯ acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
The policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor is prohibited 
from undertaking. Other than these, the Company does not impose an 
automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work. The 
Auditor is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are 
not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, 
provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work 
in the best interests of the Group. 
An annual budget for non-audit related fees which the Group is 
proposing to pay to the Auditor, is presented for pre-approval to the Audit 
Committee. Any individual assignment where the fee is likely to be in 
excess of £50,000 must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee. Where 
appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to the Auditor. 
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and 
other services are set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial  
 
statements. The fees analysed in note 6 were all incurred pre-demerger 
and therefore include amounts related to Alent plc. Of the total 
non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor in 2012 of £2.9m, £2.3m 
related to audit and accountancy work associated with the demerger of 
Cookson Group, for which it was concluded that KPMG was best-placed 
to support the Company. In addition to the work undertaken by the 
Auditor in connection with the demerger, considerable work was also 
undertaken by other accounting firms.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Group’s internal audit function operates on a global basis. The 
Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, 
within the framework of common Group policies and standards, and 
for carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan 
approved by the Audit Committee. In 2013, it is proposed that 63 audit 
assignments be undertaken covering 55 businesses. The Group Head 
of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee Chairman. 
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal 
Audit and reports to the Board on the results of its review. 
EMPLOYEE HELPLINE 
The Audit Committee has established procedures for the receipt, 
retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company 
including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters, harassment 
and confidential communications from employees. This is an 
independent and confidential service through which employees 
worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular 
practices they perceive in Vesuvius’ workplaces. The helpline is operated 
24 hours a day, seven days a week, by an organisation that specialises 
in the provision of such services. It can be contacted by phone, email or 
via a designated website. Translation facilities are available for those for 
whom English is not their first or preferred language.
APPROACH TO ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION TRAINING 
The Group’s Code of Conduct and its policies on anti-bribery and 
corruption require that employees and others working on behalf of 
the Group do not engage in any form of bribery or corruption. An anti-
bribery and corruption compliance programme has been established 
throughout the Group, and is being implemented through a targeted 
face-to-face training programme. An e-learning module is being rolled 
out globally. New employees, as relevant, will go through the training 
as part of their induction process. The compliance programme includes 
undertaking risk assessments and engaging with others working on 
behalf of the Group to ensure that their standards comply with the 
Group’s policies. The Company is a member of the corporate supporters 
forum of Transparency International UK. 
On behalf of the Audit Committee
JEFF HEWITT
Chairman, Audit Committee
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
75
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Nominations committee report
MEMBERS
The members of the Committee are John McDonough (Committee 
Chairman) and any three of the Non-executive Directors (Nelda 
Connors, Christer Gardell, Jeff Hewitt, Jane Hinkley, Jan Oosterveld and 
John Sussens). The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to, and 
retirements and resignations from, the Board and its committees, and 
reviews the Company’s succession plans. The Committee meets as and 
when required and is chaired by the Chairman or a Non-executive Director . 
The Chairman would not act as chairman of the Nominations Committee 
where it was dealing with the appointment of his successor . Formal 
meetings are held to consider standing items of business; there is also a 
significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Nominations 
Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
When considering the appointment of new Directors, the Nominations 
Committee draws up a specification, taking into consideration the 
diversity of the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience, the independence of Board members and the ongoing 
requirements of the Group. The Nominations Committee’s foremost 
priority is to ensure that the Company has the best possible leadership. 
Its prime focus is on the strength of the Board, for which appointments 
are made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the best 
candidate for the post. 
At present, two of the nine Vesuvius Directors are women, and four are 
non-British citizens. All Directors have served at a very senior level in 
global organisations, have international experience across a variety of 
industries, and most have spent a considerable amount of time resident 
outside the UK. The Nominations Committee believes that this diversity 
supports the operation of an effective Board. 
The Board has not set any specific aspirations in respect of gender 
diversity but believes that refreshment of the Board should take into 
account the need to consider diversity in all its forms.
The Nominations Committee utilises the services of executive search 
firms to identify appropriate candidates and will only use those 
firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing 
gender diversity and best practice in search assignments. Wherever 
possible, the Nominations Committee arranges for all Directors to 
meet with the preferred candidate. The Nominations Committee makes 
recommendations for each appointment to the full Board. Care is taken 
to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient time available to 
devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The search process for the new Non-executive Directors to replace Messrs 
Oosterveld and Sussens, who will be stepping down at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, gave priority to candidates with global CEO/
CFO experience, an understanding of executive compensation and 
knowledge of, and experience in, Asia - Pacific markets. JCA Group 
and Russell Reynolds Associates, specialist executive recruitment firms, 
were engaged to identify appropriate candidates. A longlist of potential 
appointees was considered, and candidates were shortlisted for interview 
based upon their fulfilment of objective criteria. The Committee then 
recommended the two preferred candidates, Ms Connors and Ms Hinkley, 
to the Board for appointment. 
It is the responsibility of the Nominations Committee to review the 
Company’s succession plans for members of the Board. The Board 
as a whole will also consider the subject. It is envisaged that each of 
Vesuvius’ divisions will submit detailed succession plans in respect of 
senior divisional executives to the Board for review each year. The Board 
will also actively seek to meet with key executives throughout the 
Group so as to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth 
of management talent. This will enable members of the Committee to 
adopt a more informed approach to succession planning.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the outcome of 
the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE  
Chairman, Nominations Committee  
28 March 2013
“The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments, retirements 
and resignations from the Board and its Committees and reviews the Board’s 
succession plans. Its primary focus is on ensuring the ongoing strength of the 
Board, by ensuring that it is appropriately structured and resourced by individuals 
with the skills and experience necessary to discharge its duties and responsibilities.”
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
76
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Directors’ remuneration report
INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT FROM THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE CHAIR
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, 2012 was a year of fundamental 
change for Cookson Group plc (“Cookson”). In December , Cookson 
demerged into two new businesses, Vesuvius plc and Alent plc. Vesuvius 
plc became the new holding company of the Engineered Ceramics and 
Precious Metals Processing divisions, and Alent plc became the new 
holding company of the Performance Materials division. This report focuses 
on the philosophy and remuneration arrangements that the Remuneration 
Committee has put in place for Vesuvius following the demerger . We are 
required by statute to provide details of Directors’ remuneration from the 
date of incorporation of the Company to 31 December 2012, despite 
the fact that Vesuvius plc was only separately listed for 13 days of 2012, 
from 19 December to 31 December . Although not required by statute, 
we have also provided information on Directors’ remuneration for the 
full year ended 31 December 2012 as we believe this is more helpful to 
shareholders. This report therefore contains the following sections:
❯ ❯ Remuneration Committee Structure and Remit;
❯ ❯ Impact of the demerger on Executive Directors’ 2012 Executive 
Remuneration Arrangements and Outstanding Share Incentives;
❯ ❯ Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors for 2013;
❯ ❯ Directors’ Contracts; 
❯ ❯ Directors’ Remuneration for the Statutory Period from 
Incorporation to 31 December 2012; and
❯ ❯ Directors’ Remuneration for 2012.
The report includes a number of the disclosures that have been 
recommended by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills in 
its draft new reporting regulations.
In terms of the Company’s overall remuneration policy, the 
remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other senior 
managers, like that of Cookson, aims to:
❯ ❯ attract and retain high calibre executives;
❯ ❯ strongly support the Company’s strategy;
❯ ❯ align management’s interests with those of shareholders; and
❯ ❯ foster a high performance culture, with a substantial portion of 
remuneration being performance linked.
The Company aims to provide median total remuneration levels for target 
performance and up to upper quartile total remuneration levels for superior 
performance. This is assessed against FTSE 250 companies and relevant 
international sector-specific companies to reach a rounded judgement. 
As disclosed in the demerger prospectus and approved by shareholders 
at the time of the demerger, the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
comprises base salary, annual incentive, the long-term incentive plan 
(“LTIP”) and retirement benefits. This is similar to the pre-demerger 
remuneration structure at Cookson except that it is simpler as it excludes 
both bonus deferral of the annual incentive and the matching shares 
which formed part of the Cookson Group plc long-term incentive plan.
When formulating this remuneration policy and structure at the time 
of the demerger, the overall intention was that it would result, in broad 
terms and as far as possible, in a “no gain-no loss” position for Executive 
Directors as compared with the pre-demerger Cookson remuneration 
arrangements, aside from some individuals who were either new hires 
or promotions. This remuneration policy, structure and positioning may 
change at some point post-demerger, but it is not anticipated that any 
material changes will be made within the Company’s first year.
The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its 
shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters. As 
a matter of course the Remuneration Committee will consult with key 
institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about the 
incentive arrangements of the Company’s Executive Directors. Indeed, 
during the demerger process, the views of Cookson’s largest shareholders 
were sought on a number of matters, including in relation to the proposed 
remuneration policy, structure and positioning of Vesuvius. These views were 
very supportive and were reflected in 97.73% of votes at the demerger 
General Meeting being cast in favour of the approval of the new Alent and 
Vesuvius Share Plans. We look forward to continuing this dialogue. 
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
JOHN SUSSENS
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
28 March 2013
“The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its 
shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters. As 
a matter of course the Remuneration Committee will consult with key 
institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about the 
incentive arrangements of the Company’s Executive Directors.” 
JOHN SUSSENS, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
77
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE STRUCTURE AND REMIT
Members
John Sussens (Committee Chairman)
Nelda Connors
Jeff Hewitt 
Jane Hinkley 
Jan Oosterveld
Roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) is responsible for:
❯ ❯ setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary;
❯ ❯ recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below 
Board level; and
❯ ❯ overseeing the operation of any Executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website, www.vesuvius.com.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The current members of the Remuneration Committee are all the independent Non-executive Directors. Mr Sussens, who chairs the Remuneration 
Committee, will be retiring as a Director at the forthcoming AGM, and Ms Hinkley will take over this role. Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens 
were appointed as Directors of the Company on 31 October 2012. Ms Hinkley was appointed on 3 December 2012 and Ms Connors on 1 March 
2013. The Company Secretary acts as Committee Secretary. The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the non-independent 
Non-executive Director, Mr Gardell, are invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate, but do not participate in discussions of their own 
remuneration.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee appointed the external advisers Towers Watson (“Towers”) to assist it in formulating policies and deciding individual 
remuneration levels. The Committee is also advised by the Chief Executive, the Vice President Human Resources, the Company Secretary, and by the 
law firm Clifford Chance LLP (“CC”). Towers was appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration 
matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practices and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation 
of long-term incentive plans. Towers has also provided the Remuneration Committee with remuneration benchmarking data for certain executives. 
CC provides advice on the operation of executive share plans. Towers is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in 
relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK. 
Towers provides other remuneration and benchmarking advice to the Company, and CC provides legal advice to the Company. The Remuneration 
Committee does not believe that the provision of any of these services to the Company compromises the independence or integrity of the advice 
that it receives from Towers and CC. 
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee only met formally once during the year under review, but as members of the Cookson Remuneration 
Committee, Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld and Sussens were involved in discussions regarding the implementation of Vesuvius’ new remuneration 
programme for senior executives in advance of the demerger.  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
78
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The Remuneration Committee expects to meet at least four times in 2013 to consider key matters, including:
❯ ❯ the salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and senior management;
❯ ❯ reviewing achievement against the performance targets, and approving payouts, in respect of the 2012 annual incentive arrangements;
❯ ❯ setting performance targets and approving the structure of the 2013 annual incentive arrangements; 
❯ ❯ considering the Company’s performance against the performance conditions applicable to the 2010 Cookson Long-Term Incentive Plan, and 
authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant;
❯ ❯ setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan;
❯ ❯ receiving feedback on the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s meetings with key institutional shareholders regarding the Company’s 
remuneration policy and practice, and in the light of this, and advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration 
practice and governance, discussing the Company’s approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made; 
❯ ❯ reviewing the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference, and recommending any amendments to the Board for approval; and
❯ ❯ reviewing and approving the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
IMPACT OF THE DEMERGER ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ 2012 COOKSON REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS AND OUTSTANDING SHARE 
INCENTIVES:
Cookson 2012 Annual Incentive
For the financial year 2012, Mr Wanecq’s Annual Incentive was based on financial targets for Cookson as a whole and separately, for the 
Engineered Ceramics Division. The Cookson element was based on Cookson Group Headline Earnings performance, with an adjustment based on 
Cookson’s working capital performance to focus greater attention on cash flow performance. The effect of this was to reduce the level of payout 
that could be achieved by up to 10% if specified working capital targets were not attained. The adjuster could increase the level of payout by up to 
10%, but not above the usual plan maximum. Half of Mr Wanecq’s Annual Incentive was assessed against this criterion and the remainder based 
upon the Cookson Engineered Ceramics division’s trading profit adjusted for performance against working capital targets. His maximum incentive 
potential was 100% of salary. For 2012 the Cookson Group Headline Earnings performance and the Engineered Ceramics Division’s trading profit 
were both below threshold; there is therefore no payout due to Mr Wanceq in relation to the 2012 Annual Incentive. 
As part of the arrangements agreed upon his recruitment to the Company, Mr O’Shea is entitled to receive the maximum Annual Incentive payout 
of 100% for 2012 based on his pro rated salary for his period in employment. No performance conditions were applicable to this award.
For 2012, the following Annual Incentive payments are payable:
Name Measure Weighting
Target
Performance
Achieved
(% of salary)
Incentive Paid
(% of salary)
François Wanecq Group Headline Earnings 50% £207m nil nil
Engineered Ceramics Trading profit 50% £208m nil nil
Chris O’Shea None n/a n/a 100% 100%
Mr O’Shea’s Annual Incentive payment is reported in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 89. 
Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan (“Cookson LTIP”) 
The Demerger did not result in the early vesting of awards held under the Cookson LTIP . 
2010 Cookson LTIP Award
In the case of the grants made in 2010 under the Cookson LTIP where the performance period was due to end on 31 December 2012, the period 
was shortened very slightly, to end at the Demerger Effective Time (18 December 2012), so that performance was measured purely in relation to 
Cookson’s performance — being relative TSR performance and its growth in Headline Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) (50% each). These awards are 
due to vest on, or shortly after, 7 April 2013 and were rolled over to become awards over a combination of Vesuvius and Alent shares in the same 
combination that applied to Cookson shareholders under the terms of the demerger. This reflects the fact that these awards relate to Cookson 
performance and not the future performance of Vesuvius or Alent. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
79
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
The proportion of shares vesting under the 2010 Cookson LTIP is based on the performance of Cookson Group plc against specified performance 
conditions. Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the three-year TSR performance of the Cookson Group relative to that of the 
constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on Headline EPS growth over a three-year period. The two measures 
operate independently. 
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2010 Cookson LTIP awards is based on TSR performance in 
accordance with the following schedule:
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250
excluding Investment Trusts
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
(Matching Shares: Investment Shares)
Below Median 0% 0
Median 12.5% 0.25 : 1
Upper Quintile (top 20%) 50% 1.125 : 1
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2010 Cookson LTIP awards is based on Headline EPS growth, as 
compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”), in accordance with the following schedule:
Annual Compound Headline
EPS Growth above RPI
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
(Matching Shares: Investment Shares)
Below 3% 0% 0
3% 12.5% 0.25 : 1
At or above 10% 50% 1.125 : 1
Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1
Matching Share Awards only vest if the Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained. 
The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2010 ended on 18 December 2012. Cookson’s TSR performance during this almost 
three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group (FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts) and it was determined that 
Cookson’s performance was between the median and the upper quintile, a level which results in the vesting of 17.7% out of a maximum of 50% 
of Performance Share awards and Matching Share awards vesting at a ratio of 0.372 : 1, compared to a maximum vesting ratio of 1.125 : 1. In 
addition, Cookson’s annual compound Headline EPS growth was assessed for the performance period as being over 10% above RPI, a level which 
results in the maximum 50% of Performance share awards vesting and Matching shares awards vesting at a ratio of 1.125 : 1. Prior to the vesting 
of any award, as an additional hurdle, vesting must be justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson over the performance period.  
It has been concluded that the vesting of the 2010 LTIP awards is justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson. Accordingly,  
67.7% of Mr Wanecq’s 2010 LTIP Performance Share award will vest and his Matching Share award will vest at a ratio of 1.497 : 1 on, or shortly 
after, 7 April 2013. 
2011 and 2012 LTIP Awards
In the case of the grants made in 2011 and 2012 under the Cookson LTIP , it was agreed prior to the demerger that awards for participants who 
went on to be employed by Alent plc, would be rolled over to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value. For those participants who 
went on to be employed by Vesuvius plc, their awards would be rolled over to become awards over Vesuvius shares of equivalent value. For those 
participants who had already left the Cookson Group under circumstances in which they retained their LTIP entitlement, or who, at the request 
of Cookson, left or are leaving the Cookson Group as a result of the demerger and who have not joined either Alent or Vesuvius on a permanent 
basis, their awards have been rolled over to become awards over a combination of Alent and Vesuvius shares in the same combination as applied 
to Cookson shareholders. Mr Wanecq’s oustanding 2011 and 2012 awards have therefore been rolled over to become awards over Vesuvius shares. 
Details of these awards are given on page 91.
Performance will still be measured over a three-year period, but by reference to Cookson performance up to the Demerger Effective Time (18 
December 2012) and by reference to Vesuvius performance (for Vesuvius shares) or Alent performance (for Alent shares) thereafter to the end 
of the period. The awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Cookson LTIP , save that the relevant company (and relevant 
Remuneration Committee) is Vesuvius for Vesuvius employees and leavers, and Alent for Alent employees, instead of Cookson. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
80
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The method of measuring performance for the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards is as follows:
❯ ❯ As regards the EPS targets, the mechanics of the proposed adjustments were disclosed in the Demerger Circular. The previously disclosed Cookson 
Headline EPS threshold and maximum vesting targets for the final year of the relevant three-year performance period have been split between 
Vesuvius and Alent by reference to their respective trading profit contributions to Cookson’s total 2012 trading profit such that the new Vesuvius 
and Alent targets aggregate to the previously disclosed Cookson targets. The new 2013 EPS targets for Vesuvius plc, are therefore 48.6 pence at 
Threshold and 58.4 pence at Maximum, and for 2014, 50.4 pence at Threshold and 62.3 pence at Maximum. When added to the revised Alent 
plc targets, these targets aggregate to the former Cookson Group plc targets. The respective Vesuvius Headline EPS values as reported for the final 
year of the three-year performance period will be compared with these new threshold and maximum targets to determine the vesting outcome. 
Prior to the vesting of any award, as an additional hurdle, vesting must be justified by the underlying financial performance of Vesuvius over the 
performance period.
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2011 Cookson LTIP awards will be based on Headline EPS growth in 
accordance with the following schedule:
Headline EPS for 2013 financial year
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
(Matching Shares: Investment Shares)
Less than 48.6 pence 0% 0
48.6 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1
58.4 pence or more 50% 1.125 : 1
Between 48.6 pence and 58.4 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards for the 2012 Cookson LTIP awards will be based on Headline EPS growth in 
accordance with the following schedule:
Headline EPS for 2014 financial year
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
(Matching Shares: Investment Shares)
Less than 50.4 pence 0% 0
50.4 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1
62.3 pence or more 50% 1.125 : 1
Between 50.4 pence and 62.3 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1
❯ ❯ As regards the TSR targets, Cookson’s TSR growth from the start of the relevant three-year performance period up to the time of the demerger 
has been determined. For the purpose of the 2011 LTIP awards, Cookson’s TSR grew by 9% in the period from 1 January 2011 to 18 December 
2012, and for the purpose of the 2012 LTIP awards, Cookson’s TSR grew by 28.1% in the period from 1 January 2012 to 18 December 2012. 
These growth figures will be added to the TSR growth of Vesuvius from the demerger date to the end of the three-year performance period. 
This aggregate TSR growth will then be ranked against the TSR of the relevant comparator group and the resulting vesting outcome will be 
calculated against the TSR performance schedule in the LTIP .
Vesting of 50% of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards will be based on TSR performance in 
accordance with the following schedule:
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250
excluding Investment Trusts
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Matching Shares Vesting Ratio
(Matching Shares: Investment Shares)
Below Median 0% 0
Median 12.5% 0.25 : 1
Upper Quintile (top 20%) 50% 1.125 : 1
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
81
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Cookson Deferred Share Bonus Plan (“Cookson DSBP”)
The Cookson DSBP was implemented in 2007 to provide an alternative long-term incentive arrangement for certain executives. The senior 
managers who participated in this plan received an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus. In the case of 
the grants made in 2010 under the Cookson DSBP , these awards over Cookson shares were rolled over to become awards over a combination of 
Vesuvius and Alent Shares in the same combination that applied to Cookson shareholders under the terms of the demerger.
In the case of the grants made in 2011 and 2012 under the Cookson DSBP it was agreed prior to the demerger, that awards for participants who 
went on to be employed by Alent plc would be rolled over to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value. For those participants who 
went on to be employed by Vesuvius plc, their awards would be rolled over to become awards over Vesuvius shares of equivalent value. For those 
participants who had already left the Cookson Group, or who, at the request of Cookson, left or are leaving the Cookson Group as a result of the 
demerger and who have not joined either Alent or Vesuvius on a permanent basis, their awards have been rolled over to become awards over a 
combination of Alent and Vesuvius shares in the same combination as applied to Cookson shareholders.
The awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing Cookson DSBP , save that the relevant company (and relevant 
remuneration committee) is Vesuvius in respect of outstanding awards for Vesuvius employees and leavers, and Alent in respect of Alent employees, 
instead of Cookson.
Cookson Restricted Share Award
As part of his one-off appointment arrangements, and to partly offset the loss of value of long-term share incentive awards forgone as a result of 
him joining Cookson, Mr O’Shea was granted (on 5 November 2012) a restricted share award with a face value of 100% of his annual base salary 
(£340,000). Half of the award is due to vest on the first anniversary of his date of joining (11 October 2013) and the remainder on the second 
anniversary (11 October 2014), subject to him remaining employed with the Company and not under notice of termination. Mr O’Shea is also entitled 
to receive shares or cash to the value of any dividends that would have accrued on the shares he has been awarded during the period between his date 
of joining and the date of vesting of his awards. This restricted share award was granted over Cookson shares (which rolled over into Vesuvius Shares 
on demerger) and was granted by individual award agreement (not under the terms of the Cookson LTIP or the Vesuvius Share Plan).
DIVIDEND ACCRUAL
The Committee has the discretion to award participants in the Cookson LTIP and Cookson DSBP the dividends that would have been paid on 
the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting. 
These dividends can be paid in either cash or shares. The Committee believes that this can be an important step in aligning the interests of senior 
executives with those of shareholders. 
Details of all awards outstanding under the Cookson share plans as at 31 December 2012 are given in note 32 to the consolidated financial 
statements and note 10 to the Company financial statements. 
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2013 
The remuneration policy of the Company aims to establish a remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other senior managers which:
❯ ❯ attracts and retains high calibre executives;
❯ ❯ strongly supports the Company’s strategy;
❯ ❯ aligns management’s interests with those of shareholders; and
❯ ❯ fosters a high performance culture, with a substantial portion of remuneration being performance linked.
When formulating this remuneration policy and structure at the time of the demerger, the overall intention was that it will result, in broad 
terms and as far as possible, in a “no gain-no loss” position for Executive Directors as compared with the pre-Demerger Cookson remuneration 
arrangements, aside from some individuals who were either new hires or promotions. The Remuneration Committee will undertake a regular review 
of the Company’s remuneration policy, structure and positioning. These may change at some point post-Demerger but it is not anticipated that any 
material changes will be implemented within the first 12 months. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
82
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
In formulating remuneration policy going forward, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the international scale and nature of the 
Company’s operations and take into consideration the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and guidelines issued by its leading 
shareholders and bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds. The Remuneration Committee 
takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors’ remuneration, particularly 
when determining base salary increases. The Remuneration Committee will also obtain information on the remuneration paid for comparable roles 
at other companies to provide a point of reference for determining remuneration policy. 
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the remuneration policy is firmly linked to the Company’s strategy, including 
its risk management philosophy. As all Remuneration Committee members also serve on the Audit Committee, each Committee benefits from the 
Directors’ experience on the other. This will be particularly relevant going forward, when the Remuneration Committee is considering matters such 
as the Company’s achievement of performance conditions and the implications for the Company’s risk profile of the award of incentives under the 
Company’s remuneration programmes. The Remuneration Committee considers the Company’s current executive remuneration policy and incentive 
structure to be compatible with the Company’s risk management and internal control systems.
The Board has set a strategy (as described on page 11) designed to deliver superior returns to Vesuvius’ shareholders by focusing on five key 
objectives:
❯ ❯ maintaining Vesuvius’existing technology leadership position;
❯ ❯ enlarging Vesuvius’ addressable market through the penetration of product and service solutions;
❯ ❯ leveraging Vesuvius’ strong positions in developing markets to capture growth;
❯ ❯ improving cost leadership and margins; and
❯ ❯ building a comprehensive offering in metal casting engineering;
whilst maintaining a rigorous focus on cash flow generation.
The remuneration policy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Company’s strategy, with a 
significant proportion of the executive Directors’ total remuneration based on the variable, performance-related elements of the Annual Incentive 
and Performance Share awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan. The performance conditions under these arrangements support the Company’s 
focus on growth in profit, cash flow generation and shareholder returns by targeting key business imperatives such as relative total shareholder 
return (“TSR”), defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, Headline EPS and working capital. These targets are 
objective, auditable and transparent and as such are considered to be appropriate performance measures for management. To ensure that their 
interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build a significant stake in the Company in accordance with the 
Company’s share retention guidelines. 
The Remuneration Committee will evaluate the efficacy of the Company’s Executive remuneration policy each year and commission formal reviews 
as it considers appropriate. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
83
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
FIXED & VARIABLE REMUNERATION FOR 2013
The following illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for the Executive Directors based on the remuneration policy  
for 2013:
The following illustrates the value of the Executive Directors’ fixed and variable remuneration below threshold, on-target and at maximum 
performance: 
Note: All these charts assume Target payouts consist of base salary, pension allowance and incentive awards payable at 50% of Maximum.
Maximum
Target
Below Threshold
£0 £500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,500,000 £3,000,000
■ Base Salary ■ Pension ■ Cash Bonus
£2,502,500
£1,608,750
£715,000
*
■ Performance Shares
François Wanecq 
Maximum
Target
Below Threshold
£0 £500,000 £1,000,000 £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,500,000 £3,000,000
■ Base Salary ■ Pension ■ Cash Bonus
£1,462,000
£952,000
£442,000
*
■ Performance Shares
Chris O’Shea
François Wanecq — Target
François Wanecq — Maximum
Chris O’Shea — Target
Chris O’Shea — Maximum
Variable portion 56%
Variable portion 71%
Variable portion 54%
Variable portion 70%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
■ Base Salary ■ Pension ■ Cash Bonus
34.2% 10.3% 21.3%
22% 7% 27%
35.7% 10.7% 17.9%
23% 7% 23%
■ Performance Shares
34.2%
44%
35.7%
47% 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
84
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR 2013
Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to remuneration policy Levels of Award Key features
Base salary ❯ ❯ Helps to recruit and retain key 
employees.
❯ ❯ Reflects the individual’s experience, 
role and contribution within the 
Company.
❯ ❯ n/a ❯ ❯ Paid in cash.
❯ ❯ Normally reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee annually.
Annual Incentive ❯ ❯ Incentivises executives to achieve 
specific, pre-defined annual targets. 
❯ ❯ For 2013, Annual Incentives are 
based on Group Headline Earnings 
performance with a working capital 
adjustment target. 
❯ ❯ Below Threshold: 0%
❯ ❯ On-Target: 62.5% of base salary for 
the Chief Executive, 50% of base 
salary for the Chief Financial Officer
❯ ❯ Maximum: 125% of base salary for 
the Chief Executive, 100% of base 
salary for the Chief Financial Officer
❯ ❯ Entire bonus amount payable in 
cash.
❯ ❯ No deferral.
❯ ❯ Subject to clawback.
Vesuvius Share Plan ❯ ❯ Flexible “umbrella” plan.
❯ ❯ Aligns executives’ interests with 
those of shareholders through the 
delivery of shares.
❯ ❯ Rewards growth in shareholder 
value and earnings.
❯ ❯ Aids retention of key executives over 
a three-year performance period.
❯ ❯ Executive Directors eligible to 
receive, on an annual basis, a 
performance share award with a 
face value of up to 200% of base 
salary.
❯ ❯ Participants are eligible to receive 
annual allocations of Performance 
Share Awards.
❯ ❯ These awards are eligible to vest 
three years after their award date 
subject to the achievement of 
specified performance conditions.
❯ ❯ Vesting of half of awards is subject 
to the Company’s TSR performance 
versus the FTSE 250 (excluding 
Investment Trusts).
❯ ❯ Vesting of the remaining half of 
awards is subject to the growth in 
the Company’s EPS.
❯ ❯ Prior to any vesting the Remuneration 
Committee has also stipulated that, 
as an additional hurdle, it needs to 
be satisfied that vesting has been 
justified by the underlying financial 
performance of the Company over the 
performance period.
❯ ❯ The Remuneration Committee  
has the discretion to award 
participants the dividends accrued 
on any shares that vest.
❯ ❯ Subject to clawback.
Retirement Benefits ❯ ❯ Helps to recruit and retain key 
employees.
❯ ❯ Ensures income in retirement.
❯ ❯ Executive Directors are eligible to 
receive a pension allowance of 30% 
of their base salaries.
❯ ❯ Benefits are provided by way of an 
allowance which can be delivered 
in cash and/or as a payment to a 
defined contribution arrangement.
Other Benefits ❯ ❯ Provides core benefits to Executive 
Directors. 
❯ ❯ Relocation assistance provided to 
the Chief Executive to support his 
move from Brussels to London.
❯ ❯ Core benefits on same terms as 
those provided to other Group 
Executives.
❯ ❯ Relocation benefits in accordance 
with the Vesuvius Relocation policy.
❯ ❯ Core benefits include car allowance, 
life assurance, disability and health 
insurance.
❯ ❯ Relocation benefits include short-
term rent allowance, and assistance 
locating a property for purchase and 
paying associated expenses.
Directors’ remuneration report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
85
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
FURTHER DETAILS OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR 2013
BASE SALARY 
Base salary levels reflect the individual’s contribution and experience, the Company’s financial performance, the pay environment for employees 
within the Company and the salaries paid in comparator companies. 
At the time of the demerger, Mr Wanecq’s promotion was reflected in a base salary increase of 10% due to changing role and increased 
responsibilities. Mr Wanecq’s salary is currently £550,000 p.a. and Mr O’Shea’s salary £340,000 p.a. It is envisaged that base salaries will be 
reviewed annually, with the next review scheduled for 1 January 2014. 
ANNUAL INCENTIVE 
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an Annual Incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against 
specified targets. There is no deferral of annual bonuses for Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine that 
actual incentive payments should be lower than levels calculated by reference to achievement against the specified targets if it considers this to 
be appropriate. Each year the Remuneration Committee will establish the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year. These criteria will 
be set by reference to the Company’s financial budget and prior year actual financial results. The target range will be set to ensure that maximum 
bonuses are only paid for significantly exceeding market expectations. The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of 
these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Company’s longer-term strategic goals.
The Annual Incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum performance level at which a 
maximum award is earned. Mr Wanecq’s maximum Annual Incentive potential is 125% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential is 62.5% of 
base salary. Mr O’Shea’s maximum Annual Incentive potential is 100% of base salary and his target annual incentive proposal is 50% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2013 Messrs Wanecq’s and O’Shea’s Annual Incentives will be based on Group Headline 
Earnings, with an adjustment based on the Group’s working capital performance, to focus greater attention on cash flow performance. The effect 
of this will be to reduce the level of payout that the Directors can achieve by up to 10% if specified working capital targets are not attained. The 
adjuster can increase the level of payout by up to 10%, but not above the usual plan maximum. 
VESUVIUS SHARE PLAN
Summary
The Vesuvius Share Plan was approved by shareholders at the time of the demerger. The Vesuvius Share Plan does not replicate the Cookson LTIP . 
It has been simplified to remove matching shares and is structured as an “umbrella” plan, which gives greater flexibility in terms of the awards 
which can be made, in line with current market practice. This means that the Company only needs to have one set of share plan rules to cover all its 
current and prospective share plan needs. The Vesuvius Share Plan permits awards to be granted as:
❯ ❯ performance share awards;
❯ ❯ deferred share bonus awards;
❯ ❯ restricted share awards; and
❯ ❯ market-price options.
Performance Share Awards
It is the Remuneration Committee’s intention to grant awards to Executive Directors under the first element, performance share awards, in 2013. 
Awards under this element reward executives for delivering superior TSR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested 
dividends, and EPS growth over a set period of time, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders’ interests. 
Eligibility and individual grant levels
Executive Directors are eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a performance share award with a face value of up to 200% of base salary. 
Performance conditions for performance share awards
The vesting of performance share awards granted by the Company will be based on the Company’s performance against specified performance 
conditions measured over a three-year period. For 2013, the performance metrics are similar to the Cookson Long-Term Incentive Plan (Headline 
EPS and TSR based). The performance scale for the 2013 Vesuvius Share Plan awards has been set to be stretching. The nominal figures for Headline 
EPS part of the award have been selected in the light of a relatively low base period result. The performance scale for future awards is intended to 
be of similar difficulty, but the nominal growth rates selected for 2014 and after are expected to be set at a lower rate  than those for 2013. The 
Remuneration Committee will take into account the Group’s prospects and the broader global economic environment when setting future targets.  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
86
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
For awards made in 2013, the proportion of shares vesting will be based on the Company’s performance against specified performance conditions. 
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based upon the Company’s three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of 
the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on Headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in global GDP over a 
three-year period. The two measures will operate independently. 
Vesting of 50% of performance share awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule:
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250
excluding Investment Trusts
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Below Median 0%
Median 12.5%
Upper Quintile (top 20%) 50%
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
Vesting of 50% of performance shares awards will be is based on EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule:
Annual Compound Headline EPS Growth above global GDP
Performance Shares
Vesting Percentage
Below 7% 0%
7% 12.5%
At or above 15% 50%
Between 7% and 15% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
The Remuneration Committee will obtain independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the performance conditions at the 
end of the relevant performance period. Measurement of the Company’s TSR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day 
of the Company’s financial year in which the award is granted. TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index for the Company and 
each comparator company between the beginning and end of the performance period. The return index at the beginning of the performance period 
is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period. The same three-month 
averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period. The companies are then ranked, in descending order, 
according to their TSR. If the Company is ranked at or above the median of the comparator group then a proportion of the awards is eligible to vest. 
Headline EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis and the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it 
deems appropriate. Growth in Headline EPS is the annualised percentage growth over the performance period. Headline EPS for the base year (i.e. 
the calendar year prior to the award date) is compared with the final year (i.e. the calendar year three years after the base year). 
Performance shares awards vest after three years. Performance share awards can be granted as allocations with a fixed vesting date, or in the form of 
nil-cost options. Nil-cost options awarded in 2013 would become exercisable, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, 
three years after their award, and then remain exercisable until the fifth anniversary of their award. This allows each participant the flexibility to decide 
when to exercise their awards rather than the shares being subject to a one-off vesting date on the third anniversary of their award. 
Deferred Share Bonus Awards
The Remuneration Committee also intends to grant deferred share bonus awards to certain executives in 2013. The senior managers who 
participate in this plan will receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus. Neither of the Executive 
Directors will participate. The deferred shares awarded will vest after three years, although an executive’s allocation may lapse if he or she ceases 
employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
Dividend Accrual
The Committee has the discretion to award participants in the Vesuvius Share Plan the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that 
vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting. These dividends can be paid in either 
cash or shares. The Committee believes that this can be an important step in aligning the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
87
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
CLAWBACK ARRANGEMENTS 
The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements. In the event that a misstatement is identified in the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior year’s accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of International 
Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate of any variable 
executive remuneration (including from both the Annual Incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan) resulting from a measure of financial performance 
affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
SHARE USAGE
Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the 
allotment of newly issued shares. The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate 
sourcing arrangement for the Company. As at 31 December 2012, 903,983 Vesuvius shares and 903,983 Alent shares were held in the Company’s 
employee share ownership trust (“ESOP”). The trustee of the ESOP purchases shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly issued shares 
as required, to meet obligations for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest. The Vesuvius Share Plan rules comply with the 
current ABI guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to 
the Company’s issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on discretionary schemes. If all the awards over Vesuvius 
shares oustanding under the Cookson share plans were satisfied by the allotment of new Vesuvius shares, then this would require Vesuvius to allot 
less than 1% of its current issued share capital.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) GRAPH
Given that the demerger did not become effective until 19 December 2012, it is not possible to produce a graph which compares the Company’s 
TSR over the last five years with the return on an appropriate index (in compliance with the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts & Reports) Regulations 2008). The graphs below therefore: 
i.  compare the Company’s TSR over the short period from the Demerger to 31 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts). This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company; and
ii. compare Cookson’s TSR over the almost five year period to 18 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment  
 Trusts) 
 
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE — GROWTH IN THE VALUE OF A HYPOTHETICAL £100 HOLDING OVER 12 DAYS
Source: DataStream
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE — GROWTH IN THE VALUE OF A HYPOTHETICAL £100 HOLDING OVER FIVE YEARS
Source: DataStream
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE
19 Dec 2012
£110
£100
£90
21 Dec 2012 23 Dec 2012 25 Dec 2012 27 Dec 2012 29 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2012
Value of Hypothetical £100 Holding
31 Dec 2007
£150
£125
£100
£75
£50
£25
£0
Value of Hypothetical £100 Holding
31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 18 Dec 2012
Vesuvius plc
FTSE 250 Index  
(excluding Investment Trusts)
Cookson Group plc
FTSE 250 Index  
(excluding Investment Trusts) 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
88
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
DIRECTORS’ CONTRACTS 
The following paragraphs summarise the main terms and conditions of the contracts of the Directors: 
François Wanecq
François Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated  
17 October 2012, which was assigned to the Company upon completion of the demerger. Mr Wanecq’s appointment is terminable by the Company 
on not less than 12 months’ written notice, and by Mr Wanecq on not less than six months’ written notice. The Company has the option to make a 
payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period. Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of 
benefits to which Mr Wanecq would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case. 
Chris O’Shea
Chris O’Shea is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Cookson Group plc dated 10 September 
2012, which was assigned to the Company upon completion of the demerger. Mr O’Shea’s appointment is terminable by the Company on not less 
than 12 months’ written notice, and by Mr O’Shea on not less than six months’ written notice. The service agreement provides that, in the event of 
termination notice by either party, Vesuvius may make a payment in lieu of any remaining notice to Mr O’Shea. Any such payment in lieu will consist 
of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which Mr O’Shea would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice 
period net of statutory deductions in each case. 
Half of any payments in lieu of notice to be made to Messrs O’Shea and Wanecq would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal monthly 
instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their foregone notice period falls; if they found a role paying equivalent or better 
base salary or fees, no further instalments would be payable, and the value of any lesser new base salary or fees would be deducted from any further 
instalments. 
Messrs O’Shea and Wanecq are also subject to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a 
period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment. The agreements are governed by English law. Neither of the Executive Directors’ 
contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation 
in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination. No Directors had any material interest in a 
contract of significance (other than service agreements) with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The terms of service of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment. Each Non-executive Director is 
appointed subject to their election at the Company’s first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual 
General Meetings. With the exception of the Chairman, none of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at 
any time. During the first year of his appointment the Chairman he is entitled to 12 months’ notice from the Company; thereafter he is entitled to 6 
months’ notice from the Company. All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association. The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject 
to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board sets the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of 
other companies. The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration. 
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
Neither of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-executive Director of any other quoted companies outside the Group.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS 
In accordance with their contracts, Messrs Wanecq and O’Shea are entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of base salary, which they can use to 
participate in Vesuvius’ pension arrangements, invest in their own pension arrangements or take as a cash supplement (or any combination of the 
aforementioned options).
Mr Wanecq’s pension allowance in 2012 amounted to £159,015. Mr O’Shea’s pension allowance in 2012 amounted to £22,885. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
89
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR THE STATUTORY PERIOD FROM THE DATE OF INCORPORATION (17 SEPTEMBER 2012) TO 31 DECEMBER 2012
The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director for their services to Vesuvius plc for the statutory period from the Company’s date of 
incorporation to 31 December 2012. With the exception of Mr McDonough and Ms Hinkley, who received remuneration as Directors of the Company on 
appointment to the Board, no Director was paid for their services to Vesuvius plc prior to the listing of Vesuvius plc on 17 December 2012. Messrs O’Shea and 
Wanecq, received remuneration as Directors of the Company following the assignment of their contracts to the Company on the demerger becoming effective.
Base 
salary and
Non-executive
Directors’ fees
£
Benefits
in kind
1
£
Annual
Incentive
bonuses
2
£
T otal  
17 September 
2012 to  
31 December 
2012
£
Chairman (Non-executive)
John McDonough CBE
4
31,545 — — 31,545 
Executive Directors
Chris O’Shea
5
12,143 536 12,143 24,822
François Wanecq
6
19,643 4,336 — 23,979
Non-executive Directors
3
Christer Gardell
7
1,964 — — 1,964 
Jeff Hewitt
7
2,619 — — 2,619
Jane Hinkley
8
 3,750 — — 3,750 
Jan Oosterveld
7
1,964 — — 1,964
John Sussens
7
2,837 — — 2,837
Total Directors’ remuneration 76,465 4,872 12,143 93,480
Notes
1. Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of relocation benefits, medical insurance and company car allowances.
2. The Annual Incentive bonus awarded to Mr O’Shea resulted from a contractual entitlement to receive a full prorated bonus for 2012. The award had no performance conditions.
3. Details of the annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors can be found on page 94.
4. Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 31 October 2012.
5. Recruited as an employee of Cookson Group plc on 11 October 2012, and appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. Remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date the demerger became 
effective (19 December 2012) when his contract of employment was assigned to Vesuvius plc.
6.  Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. Remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date the demerger became effective (19 December 2012) when his contract of employment was assigned to Vesuvius plc. 
7. Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012, and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date of listing, 17 December 2012.
8. Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 3 December 2012.
9. Messrs Elliston and Malthouse served as the original Directors of Vesuvius plc from the date of incorporation to 31 October 2012. They received no remuneration in respect of their appointments.
10. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION FOR THE NON-STATUTORY PERIOD 1 JANUARY 2012 TO 31 DECEMBER 2012 
The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director for their services to Cookson Group plc (as appropriate) and Vesuvius plc in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, together with comparative totals (where applicable) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Base 
salary and
Non-executive
Directors’ fees
£
Benefits
in kind
1
£
Annual
Incentive
bonuses
2
£
2012
T otal
remuneration
£
2011
Total
remuneration
£
Chairman (Non-executive)
John McDonough CBE
5
31,545 — — 31,545  —
Executive Directors
Chris O’Shea
6
76,282 3,365 76,282 155,929 —
François Wanecq
7
530,050 73,115 — 603,165 673,287
Non-executive Directors
4
Christer Gardell
8
23,552 — — 23,552 —
Jeff Hewitt
9
55,218 — — 55,218 55,000
Jane Hinkley
10
 3,750 — — 3,750 —
Jan Oosterveld
9
40,218 — — 40,218 40,000
John Sussens
9
55,436 — — 55,436 55,000
Total Directors’ remuneration 816,051 76,480 76,282 968,813 823,287 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
90
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Notes
1. Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of relocation benefits, medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
2. The Annual Incentive bonus awarded to Mr O’Shea resulted from a contractual entitlement to receive a full prorated bonus for 2012. The award had no performance conditions.
3. Mr Wanecq’s remuneration details are translated into sterling at the average euro:sterling exchange rate for the year.
4. Details of the annual fees payable to Non-executive Directors can be found on page 94.
5. Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 31 October 2012.
6. Recruited as an employee of Cookson Group plc on 11 October 2012, and appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. Remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date the demerger became 
effective (19 December 2012) when his contract of employment was assigned to Vesuvius plc.
7.  Served as a Director of Cookson Group plc. Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012. Remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date the demerger became effective (19 December 2012) 
when his contract of employment was assigned to Vesuvius plc. 
8. Appointed as a Director of Cookson Group plc on 1 June 2012. Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012, and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date of listing, 17 December 2012.
9. Served as a Director of Cookson Group plc. Appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc on 31 October 2012, and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from the date of listing, 17 December 2012.
10. Appointed and remunerated as a Director of Vesuvius plc from 3 December 2012.
11. Messrs Elliston and Malthouse served as the original Directors of Vesuvius plc from the date of incorporation to 31 October 2012. They received no remuneration in respect of their appointments.
COOKSON LTIP ALLOCATIONS 
Details of Mr Wanecq’s allocation of shares under the Cookson LTIP are shown in the tables below: 
2009 Cookson LTIP Award (Awards vested on 26 March 2012 over Cookson shares)
Grant date and type of award
Cookson
Share
allocations
outstanding
as at 
31 Dec
2011
1
No.
Additional
shares
allocated
for
Dividend
Accrual
3
No.
Shares
vested
during
the year
3
No.
Share
allocations
outstanding
as at
31 Dec
 2012
No.
Market
price of
shares
on day
before
award
1
(p)
Performance
Period
3
Vesting
date of 
 shares
LTIP
25/03/09
3
Performance Shares 303,486 8,187 (311,673) — 180.00
01/01/09–
31/12/11 26/03/12
Matching Shares 980,170 26,444 (1,006,614) — 180.00
01/01/09–
31/12/11 26/03/12
Totals 1,283,656 34,631 (1,318,287) —
2010 Cookson LTIP Award (as adjusted for the demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Alent plc and Vesuvius plc)
Demerger Adjustments
Grant date and type of award
Cookson Share 
allocations 
outstanding as 
at 31 Dec 2011
No.
Revised 
allocations
over Alent
shares
4
No.
Revised
allocations
over Vesuvius
shares
4
 
No.
Total share allocations 
outstanding as at 
31 Dec 2012
No.
Market price 
of shares on 
day before
award 
(as adjusted 
for the
demerger)
4
(p)
Performance
Period
2,5
Earliest 
vesting 
date
Alent  
shares 
Vesuvius 
shares 
07/04/10
5
Performance Shares 93,327 93,327 93,327 93,327 93,327 311.15
01/01/10–
18/12/12 07/04/13
Matching Shares 61,761 61,761 61,761 61,761 61,761 311.15
01/01/10–
18/12/12 07/04/13
Totals 155,088 155,088 155,088 155,088 155,088
Directors’ remuneration report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
91
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
2011 and 2012 LTIP Awards (as adjusted for the Demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Vesuvius plc)
Grant date and type of award
Cookson 
Share 
allocations 
outstanding 
as at 
31 Dec 
2011
No.
Cookson 
shares 
allocated 
during the 
year
No.
Revised
allocation
over Vesuvius
shares
4
No.
Total share 
allocations 
outstanding 
as at 
31 Dec 
2012 
No.
Market price
of shares on
day before
award (as
adjusted
for the
demerger)
4
(p)
Performance
 Period
2
Earliest 
vesting
date
Vesuvius 
shares
01/04/11 Performance Shares 78,656 — 148,260 148,260 365.80
01/01/11–
31/12/13 01/04/14
Matching Shares 176,367 — 332,437 332,437 365.80
01/01/11–
31/12/13 01/04/14
05/04/12
6
Performance Shares — 79,619 150,075 150,075 365.80
01/01/12–
31/12/14 05/04/15
Matching Shares — 32,475 61,212 61,212 365.80
01/01/12–
31/12/14 05/04/15
Totals 255,023 112,094 691,984 691,984
Notes 
1. The 2009 interests and market prices shown have been adjusted for the consolidation of Cookson’s ordinary shares which took effect on 15 May 2009, when every ten ordinary 10p shares held by shareholders at the 
close of business on 14 May 2009 were exchanged for one new £1 ordinary share.
2. The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the LTIP are summarised on pages 79 to 80.
3. The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2009 ended on 31 December 2011. The Company’s TSR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and 
it was determined that the Company’s performance was above the upper quintile. The Company’s annual compound Headline EPS growth over RPI was assessed as being greater than 10% during this period. The 
Remuneration Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the vesting of awards under the 2009 LTIP was justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period. Accordingly, 
100% of the 2009 LTIP awards vested on the first dealing day after the third anniversary of their award. The Remuneration Committee also exercised its discretion to award participants in the LTIP the dividends that 
would have accrued during the vesting period on the shares that vested. Mr Wanecq’s award vested on 26 March 2012. The mid-market closing price of Cookson’s shares was 704.5p; the value of shares transferred to 
Mr Wanecq was £9,287,332. Mr Wanecq sold 642,989 Cookson shares. 
4. The 2010, 2011 and 2012 interests and market prices shown have been adjusted for the demerger which took effect in December 2012.
5. The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2010 ended on 18 December 2012. The Company’s TSR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it 
was determined that the Company’s performance was between the median and upper quintile. The Company’s annual compound Headline EPS growth over RPI was assessed as being above 10% during this period. 
The Remuneration Committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that the vesting of awards under the 2010 LTIP is justified by the underlying financial performance of Cookson over the performance period. Accordingly, 
67.7% of the 2010 Performance Share awards will vest on the third anniversary of their award, and the Matching Share awards will vest at a ratio of 1.497 : 1.
6. In 2012 Mr Wanecq received a potential maximum allocation of Performance Shares worth one times his base salary. Under the Matching Share award element of the L TIP he used his 2011 Annual Incentive payment to purchase 7,856 
Cookson shares, and received a maximum allocation of Matching Share Award based on this amount which had a maximum potential value on the date of award equivalent to circa 40% of his base salary. The allocations were made to 
Mr Wanecq on 5 April 2012 and were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cookson’s shares on the day before the awards were made. Cookson’s mid-market closing price on 4 April 2012 was 689.5p.
7. The mid-market closing price of Cookson’s shares ranged between 509p and 747.5p from 1 January 2012 to 14 December 2012 when Cookson ceased to be listed. The mid-market closing price of shares in Vesuvius 
plc was 641p and 645p on 17 and 18 December respectively, when the Cookson Group traded under the name Vesuvius plc and from 19 December to 31 December 2012, when the demerger was effective ranged 
between 324p and 352p. 
8.  The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor. 
RESTRICTED SHARE AWARD
Details of the restricted share award that Mr O’Shea received on joining Cookson Group plc are given in the table below:
Date of award
Cookson 
shares 
allocated 
during the
 year 
 No.
1
Revised 
allocation 
over Vesuvius
 shares
2
No.
Total share 
allocation 
outstanding 
as at 
31 Dec
 2012
No.
Market price 
of shares on
 day before 
award (as
 adjusted for 
the demerger)
2
(p)
Vesting 
date
1
Vesuvius 
shares 
05/11/12 57,724 108,805 108,805 312.48
50% on
50% on
11/10/13
11/10/14
Notes 
1. On his appointment, Mr O’Shea was granted a restricted share award with a face value of 100% of base salary. Half of the award is due to vest on the first anniversary of his date of joining and the remainder on the 
second anniversary, subject to him remaining employed by the Company and not under notice of termination. No other performance conditions apply to this award. 
2. Mr O’Shea’s interest and the market price shown have been adjusted for the demerger which took effect in December 2012.
3. The mid-market closing price of Cookson’s shares ranged between 509p and 747.5p from 1 January 2012 to 14 December 2012 when Cookson ceased to be listed. The mid-market closing price of shares in Vesuvius plc was 641p 
and 645p on 17 and 18 December respectively, when the Cookson Group traded under the name Vesuvius plc and from 19 December to 31 December 2012, when the demerger was effective, ranged between 324p and 352p. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
92
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
On 17 December, as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, Vesuvius plc was inserted as the new parent of Cookson Group plc. The beneficial interests 
of the current Directors of Vesuvius plc and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Cookson Group plc and the Company during 2012 
were as shown below.
 
Cookson 
shares held 
as at 
31 Dec 2011 
or date of 
appointment
Cookson 
shares held 
as at 
14 Dec 2012
Vesuvius 
shares held 
as at 
17 Dec 2012
Vesuvius 
shares held 
as at 
31 Dec 2012
Chairman (Non-executive)
John McDonough CBE — — — —
Executive Directors
Chris O’Shea — — — —
François Wanecq 462,162 1,145,316 1,145,316 1,145,316
Non-executive Directors
Christer Gardell
3
— — — —
Jeff Hewitt 14,737 15,284 15,284 15,284
Jane Hinkley — — — —
Jan Oosterveld 15,684 16,254 16,254 16,254
John Sussens 26,000 26,000 26,000 26,000
Notes
1. With the exception that Mr McDonough acquired 50,000 ordinary shares in the Company, there were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 
2013 to 28 March 2013. Ms Connors has not had an interest in Vesuvius’s shares since the date of her appointment.
2. Full details of Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the Company’s registered office during business hours.
3. Mr Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held just over 20% of Cookson’s issued share capital on the date of his appointment to the Cookson Board and continued 
to hold an interest of just over 20% in Vesuvius’s issued share capital following the demerger, and as at the date of this report. None of the other Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial 
interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
4.  Mr Malthouse, one of the initial Directors of the Company, holds one deferred share in the Company (which was formally the initial subscriber share of the Company) along with 50,000 redeemable preference shares 
which were issued in order to obtain a trading certificate for the Company. Neither the deferred share nor the redeemable preference shares carry any voting rights or have any right to participate in the profits of the 
Company (other than on a winding up of the Company). Both the deferred share and the redeemable preference shares will be cancelled in due course.
5. The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s Auditor.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES 
The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times 
salary. To this end, Executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% (measured as the value after tax) of any Performance Share Awards 
vesting under the L TIP , until this criterion has been met. New Executive Directors will be allowed four years in which to acquire this shareholding.
As at 31 December 2012, using the Company’s share price at 31 December 2012 of 346 pence, the Executive Directors’ shareholdings against this 
guideline were as follows:
Director
Actual share ownership 
as a 
percentage of salary at 
31 December 2012
Guideline share 
ownership 
as a 
percentage of salary
Guideline 
met?
François Wanecq 721% 100% Yes
Chris O’Shea nil 100%
Not yet   
reached
On behalf of the Board
JOHN SUSSENS
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
93
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Directors’ report
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Directors’ 
Report for Vesuvius plc, for the period since incorporation, 17 September 
2012, to 31 December 2012. In order to assist shareholders, the Company 
has included information on the activities of the Company for the full year 
2012. The Directors therefore submit their Annual Report together with 
the audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, 
registered in England and Wales No. 8217766, for the year ended  
31 December 2012 and for the period from 17 September to 31 December 
2012, respectively. Vesuvius plc was originally registered with the name 
Vesuvius Technologies plc on 17 September 2012 and changed its name to 
Vesuvius plc on 18 October 2012.
The message from our Chairman, the message from our Chief 
Executive, the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate 
Governance Report (including the Directors’ Remuneration Report), the 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties, the section on Vesuvius’s business 
model, the Key Performance Indicators and Board of Directors sections 
of the Annual Report, together with the information on financial risk 
management objectives and policies contained in notes 22 and 30 
to the consolidated financial statements, are each incorporated by 
reference into, and form part of, this Directors’ Report. This Directors’ 
Report also represents the management report for the purpose of 
compliance with DTR 4.1.8R of the UK Listing Authority disclosure 
rules.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since 
future events and circumstances can cause results and developments 
to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date 
of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
Vesuvius is a global leader in metal flow engineering, developing, 
manufacturing and marketing mission-critical advanced ceramic 
consumable products and systems to demanding applications, primarily 
in the global steel and foundry industries and in industries that require 
refractory materials for high temperature, abrasion-resistant and 
corrosion-resistant applications such as the aluminium, cement and glass 
industries.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to provide a fair 
review of the development and performance of the Company since 
incorporation, its financial position at the end of the year and likely 
future developments in the Group’s business, together with information 
on environmental matters and employees and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The information 
which satisfies these requirements is to be found in the message from 
our Chief Executive on pages 09 to 11; the Operating Review on 
pages 17 to 27; the Financial Review on pages 51 to 56; the section 
on Vesuvius’ business model on pages 13 to 15; the Key Performance 
Indicators on page 57; this Directors’ Report on pages 93 to 99; the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 to 92; and the Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 58 to 61. 
GOING CONCERN
Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, 
including the factors that are likely to impact the future prospects of 
the Group, is included in the message from our Chief Executive and the 
Operating Review. The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group 
faces throughout its global operations are shown on pages 58 to 61. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
debt facilities are described in the Financial Review. In addition, notes 
22 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements set out the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; financial risks; 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit, 
market (both currency and interest rate-related) and liquidity risk. Further 
details of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are included in 
notes 15, 16 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a 
period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2012 
financial statements. These forecasts reflect an assessment of current 
and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Group’s 
future trading performance. The forecasts show that the Group will be 
able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show 
continued compliance with the Company’s financial covenants. On 
the basis of the exercise described above and the Group’s available 
committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and 
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and 
the Company.
DIVIDENDS
Prior to the demerger of Cookson Group plc, the Boards of Alent 
plc and Vesuvius plc stated that it was their intention, subject to 
completion of the demerger, general market conditions and trading 
performance, to recommend final dividends for 2012 that aggregated 
to 15 pence per Cookson share. Vesuvius plc stated its intention to pay 
a final 2012 dividend of 9.5 pence per Vesuvius share, and Alent plc its 
intention to pay a final dividend of 5.5 pence per Alent share. In line 
with this stated intention, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
in respect of 2012 of 9.5 pence per ordinary share which, if approved, 
will be paid on 27 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at  
17 May 2013. 
 An interim dividend of 7.50 pence (2011: 7.25 pence) per Cookson 
ordinary share was paid on 15 October 2012 to Cookson shareholders. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
94
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the 
Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 100 
and 101 respectively. The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in 
their statement within the context of an overall control environment of 
central strategic direction and decentralised operating responsibility.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR
As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they have 
taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITOR
Resolutions for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the 
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration 
are to be proposed at the AGM.
DIRECTORS
The current Directors of the Company are Ms Hinkley, who was appointed 
on 3 December 2012, Ms Connors who was appointed on 1 March 2013, 
and Messrs Gardell, Hewitt, McDonough, Oosterveld, O’Shea, Sussens 
and Wanecq, all of whom were appointed on 31 October 2012. Messrs 
Elliston and Malthouse served as the initial Directors of the Company 
from the date of incorporation to 31 October 2012. Biographical 
information for all the current Directors of the Company is given on 
pages 62 and 63. Messrs Oosterveld and Sussens intend to retire as 
Directors of Vesuvius plc immediately following the 2013 Annual General 
Meeting. All other Directors will retire at the AGM and offer themselves 
for election. Further information on the contractual arrangements of the 
Executive Directors is given on page 88. The Non-executive Directors do 
not have service agreements. 
REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
The Board considers the remuneration policy for the Non-executive 
Directors. Non-executive Directors’ fees are £45,000 per annum. 
Supplementary fees of £15,000 per annum are payable to the 
Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. A supplementary 
fee of £5,000 per annum is also payable to the Senior Independent 
Director. 
The Chairman is paid a fee of £185,000 per annum. The Chairman’s 
remuneration is a matter for the Remuneration Committee and it will 
be subject to periodic review. Neither the Chairman, who is not an 
Executive Director, nor the other Non-executive Directors are members 
of the Group’s pension plans, nor do they participate in the Group’s 
incentive schemes.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The 
Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Tuesday 4 
June 2013 at 10.00 am. The notice of meeting is contained within the 
AGM circular.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Vesuvius recognises that its operations impact a wide community 
of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, business 
associates and local communities, and that appropriate attention to 
the fulfilment of its corporate responsibilities can enhance overall 
performance. In structuring its approach to the various aspects 
of corporate social responsibility, the Company takes account of 
guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and 
other regulatory bodies from around the world. Social, environmental 
and ethical matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact 
such matters may have on the Group’s management of risk. 
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: 
❯ ❯ Code of Conduct: requiring all Vesuvius’ businesses and employees 
to comply with the highest standards of legal and ethical 
behaviour. 
❯ ❯ Health, Safety and Environment: protecting the health and safety of 
our employees, contractors, customers and the general public and 
reducing energy consumption and waste in our operations. 
❯ ❯ Products and Services: developing innovative products and 
services which promote sustainability in our customers’ production 
processes and products. 
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (“HS&E”) 
Vesuvius regards HS&E matters as mainstream management 
responsibilities. The Board has overall responsibility for the Vesuvius 
HS&E policy and for monitoring its implementation. Executives and 
line managers at all levels are directly responsible through the normal 
management structure for HS&E matters in the operations under their 
control. Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: 
❯ ❯ Safety Performance: work-related injuries and illnesses. 
❯ ❯ Regulatory Compliance: compliance with permitted air, water, 
waste and noise emissions criteria. 
❯ ❯ Energy Usage: reducing electricity and gas consumed in our 
operations and hence carbon dioxide (“CO
2
”) emissions. 
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
Regulatory actions against Vesuvius companies have been at a low 
level for several years. This is indicative of the emphasis on continuous 
HS&E performance improvement across Vesuvius in relation to statutory 
obligations. A small number of enforcement notices were issued to Group 
companies in 2012, including several that assessed minor penalties. 
Directors’ report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
95
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential 
environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current 
or former sites. Where remediation is required, we work with external 
specialists and with government authorities to ensure that remediation 
is conducted effectively and efficiently. 
A number of Vesuvius work activities are undertaken in higher risk 
locations such as steel mills or other customer-controlled facilities. Such 
environments prove particularly dangerous for all personnel engaged 
in such facilities. Vesuvius and its customer Corus Steel, were recently 
prosecuted as a consequence of one of Vesuvius’ employees being 
fatally injured in 2008 at a Corus facility. Employee safety remains 
Vesuvius’ greatest priority. The initiative “Safety Breakthrough” 
was launched after the sad loss of Kristian Norris, to facilitate the 
elimination of severe work-related accidents. Vesuvius remains 
committed to achieving world-class safety performance across its 
business activities.
CODE OF CONDUCT 
Vesuvius has a Code of Conduct (“the Code”), which has been 
distributed throughout the Group in over 25 languages and by which 
all our businesses are required to operate. The Code emphasises the 
Group’s commitment to compliance with the highest standards of legal 
and ethical behaviour. The Code is reproduced in full on the Company’s 
website — www.vesuvius.com. The Code sets out clear and simple 
principles covering: Customers, Products and Services; Employees; 
Investors; Society and Local Communities; Health, Safety and the 
Environment; Conflicts of Interest; and Competitors. 
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the 
attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for integrity 
in all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers. 
The Code defines how we must compete vigorously and honestly. 
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and transparent investor communication. The Group 
seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts business, to 
observe all national and local laws and take into account regional and 
local concerns, customs and traditions. 
The Code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a duty 
of loyalty to the Group and personal interests that do, may or might 
appear to conflict with Group interests must be avoided at all times. 
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
A fundamental concept embodied in the Company’s Code of Conduct 
is that Vesuvius’ goals can only be met through the efforts of its 
employees. Vesuvius recognises that job satisfaction requires working 
environments that motivate employees to be productive and innovative 
and provide opportunities for employee training and development to 
maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Group. 
Vesuvius is managed on a decentralised basis and it is the responsibility 
of the Vice President of Human Resources, together with the relevant 
operational managers, to adopt employment policies and practices that 
best suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations. 
This management structure allows the Group’s operations to respond 
competitively to changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain 
a strong sense of identity, whilst benefiting from being a part of a 
major international group. 
Vesuvius values the involvement of its employees and keeps them 
informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors 
relevant to Group performance. It is established policy throughout 
Vesuvius that decisions on recruitment, career development, training, 
promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on 
the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct. 
These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without 
regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, 
sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job 
performance or prohibited by applicable law. Vesuvius gives full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons. 
Should an employee become disabled during their employment with 
Vesuvius, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service 
with the Group.
PENSIONS
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements 
in place are considered to be consistent with good employment 
practice in that particular area. Independent advisers are used to 
ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with local legislation 
and the rules of each plan. Group policy prohibits direct investment of 
pension fund assets in the Company’s shares. Outside the UK, the US, 
Germany and Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the Group are 
of a defined contribution nature.
The Group’s UK defined benefits plan (the “UK Plan”) and the 
main US defined benefits plan are closed to new entrants and have 
ceased providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible employees 
instead being provided with benefits through defined contribution 
arrangements.
Cookson Group plc was the principal employer of the UK Plan. 
Following the demerger, the UK Plan remained with Vesuvius and 
all pension liabilities of the Alent employers who participated in the 
UK Plan immediately prior to the demerger were discharged in full. 
Cookson had agreed, with the Trustee of the UK Plan, a mitigation 
package in light of the loss of support from the Alent participating 
employers. That mitigation package comprised a £38m payment to 
the UK Plan. See note 31 to the consolidated financial statements for 
further information. 
For the Group’s closed UK Plan a Trustee Board exists comprising 
employees, former employees and an independent trustee. The Board 
currently comprises seven trustee directors, of whom three are member 
nominated. The administration of the plan is outsourced. The Company 
is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
96
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
need to comply with the guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator. 
Regular dialogue is maintained between the Company and the Trustee 
Board of the UK Plan to ensure that both Company and Trustee are 
apprised of the same financial and other information about the Group 
and the UK Plan. This is pertinent to each being able to contribute to 
the effective functioning of the UK Plan. The Company currently has 
in place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee Board, 
which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK Plan as at 
31 December 2009 by February 2016. The adequacy of this schedule of 
contributions will be monitored over time, so as to assess the need for 
it to be modified in the light of changes in the deficit position.
The Group’s worldwide net pension deficit at 31 December 2012 
was £69m (31 December 2011: £59m). The increase arose largely as 
a result of a reduction in the applicable interest rates used to value 
liabilities. 
The offer of enhanced transfer values to deferred members of the 
UK Plan, launched in 2011, was successfully completed in the first 
half of 2012. In total 550 members took advantage of the scheme 
and, as a result, longevity and investment risk have been eliminated 
in respect of £50m (c.10%) of Vesuvius’ total UK pension liabilities. 
On 19 July 2012, the Trustee of the UK Plan and Pension Insurance 
Corporation announced that they had signed a pension insurance buy-
in agreement covering all of the pensioner members of the UK Plan. 
This eliminates inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk in 
respect of around 60% of Vesuvius’ total UK pension liabilities. Both 
the enhanced transfer offer and pensioner insurance buy-in are further 
steps in the ongoing strategy of de-risking the Group’s defined benefit 
pension arrangements.
Current active employees in the UK are offered membership of a 
defined contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, with 
oversight by a governance committee.
All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive benefit 
of plan participants and their beneficiaries. An independent financial 
institution acts as the Trustee. The trust assets are protected by law 
and by Federal Government Regulation and are subject to annual audit 
by an independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the 
Department of Labor. Further details of pension arrangements are given 
in note 31. In 2012, 67% of the deferred pensioners in the US defined 
benefit pension plan accepted an offer of a lump sum payment in 
full and final settlement of the Group’s pension liability to them, thus 
eliminating all future risks relating to these liabilities.
DONATIONS
No donations were made by the Company in the UK for charitable 
purposes in 2012. In accordance with Company policy, no political 
donations were made in 2012.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY
Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the 
terms and conditions under which business transactions with their 
suppliers are conducted. It is Group policy that payments to suppliers 
are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is 
also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2012, the number 
of days’ purchases outstanding was 21.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH CUSTOMERS, 
CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS
The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other 
arrangements with customers, contractors and suppliers which it 
considers are essential to its business. The Company has a number of 
contractual arrangements in support of its business activities. Whilst the 
loss of some of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, 
none is considered to be essential in the context of Vesuvius’ business 
as a whole.
CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS
The terms of the Group’s committed bank facility and US Private 
Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties 
to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of 
control on takeover of the Company. A number of other arrangements 
to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other 
debt arrangements and share incentive plans, may alter or terminate 
on a change of control in the event of a takeover. In the context of the 
Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not considered to be 
significant. 
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 27 March 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into an 
agreement with Heimerle + Meule GmbH, a subsidiary of L. Possehl & 
Co, mbH (“Possehl”)to sell the European Precious Metals Processing 
business for a consideration of euro56.8m. The cash consideration will 
be subject to closing balance sheet adjustments. Completion, which 
is expected by the end of the first half of 2013, will be subject to 
conditions including approval by the European Commission and by the 
Supervisory Board of Possehl. 
DEMERGER AND SHARE CAPITAL
During the fourth quarter of 2012 Cookson Group plc demerged into 
two new businesses, Vesuvius plc and Alent plc. Vesuvius plc, which 
became the new holding company of Cookson Group (the Engineered 
Ceramics and Precious Metals Processing divisions), and Alent plc, 
which became the new holding company of the Performance Materials 
division. This resulted in Cookson shareholders holding shares in these 
two new listed companies, on the basis of one Vesuvius share and one 
Alent share for each Cookson Share that they held.
Directors’ report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
97
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
The demerger was effected through the following steps:
a.  Prior to the demerger, Cookson Group underwent a reorganisation 
which involved, amongst other things, the transfer of the various 
Cookson Group subsidiaries which held the Performance Materials 
division business to a single holding company, Alent Investments 
Limited. Alent Investments Limited was subsequently transferred 
to Alent plc as part of the Vesuvius capital reduction, as further 
described below. 
b.  A Scheme of Arrangement was then effected. This resulted in a 
new holding company, Vesuvius plc, being inserted as the holding 
company of Cookson Group. Cookson shareholders received one 
Vesuvius share in respect of each Cookson share held by them 
at the Scheme Record Time. Vesuvius shares were admitted to 
the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on 
the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities at 
8.00am on 17 December 2012.
c.  Following the Scheme becoming effective, Vesuvius plc effected 
a reduction and repayment of capital in order to implement the 
demerger itself. The repayment of capital was satisfied by the 
transfer of Alent Investments Limited, the holding company of the 
Performance Materials division, to Alent plc. In consideration for 
such transfer, Alent plc allotted and issued to Vesuvius shareholders 
one Alent share for each Vesuvius share held at the Demerger 
Record Time. Alent shares were admitted to the premium listing 
segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange’s main market for listed securities at 8.00am on 19 
December 2012.
Prior to the demerger, the share capital of Vesuvius plc consisted of one 
ordinary share with a par value of £1 (the subscriber share) and 50,000 
Redeemable Preference Shares of £1 each. As part of the demerger, 
Vesuvius plc issued 278,448,752 Vesuvius shares, credited as fully 
paid, to Cookson shareholders on the basis of one Vesuvius Share for 
every Cookson Share held at the scheme record date. The one Vesuvius 
Subscriber Share of £1 was then converted into a Vesuvius Deferred 
Share of £1.
As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital 
of 278,485,071 ordinary shares of 10p each, being the total number 
of Vesuvius plc shares with voting rights. The Company also has one 
Deferred Share of £1 and 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
Further information relating to the Company’s issued share capital can 
be found in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and 
make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders 
in certain circumstances will be proposed at the AGM.
APPORTIONMENT OF TAX BASE COST OF COOKSON GROUP PLC 
SHARES BETWEEN ALENT PLC SHARES AND VESUVIUS PLC SHARES
Based on the share prices of Alent plc and Vesuvius plc on 19 December 
2012, a shareholder’s base cost in Cookson Group plc shares for UK 
capital gains tax purposes, and also for US federal income tax purposes, 
will be allocated 48.87% to Alent plc and 51.13% to Vesuvius plc. US 
shareholders are referred to IRS Form 8937 for more information.
SHARE PLANS
Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans which have 
been carried over from Cookson Group plc (further details about these 
are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report). For the majority of 
these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition 
of existing shares or by the issue of new shares. Existing shares are 
held in an employee share ownership trust (“ESOP”). The trustee of the 
ESOP purchases shares in the open market as required, to enable the 
Group to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy 
awards that vest. The trustee does not register votes in respect of these 
shares and has waived the right to receive any dividends.
In 2012 the trustee purchased 2.7 million £1 ordinary shares in 
Cookson Group plc with a nominal value of £2.7m at a cash cost of 
£17.9m, and was allotted a further million 1.9 ordinary shares at a 
nominal value cost of £1.9m to satisfy the actual and potential vesting 
of awards under the Group’s share-based payment plans (see note 10 
to the Company financial statements).
Adjustments were made to outstanding share-based incentives as 
appropriate following the demerger of Cookson Group, including to the 
number of shares granted under options and awards and any relevant 
performance conditions. Such adjustments were made in accordance 
with the rules of the relevant plans. Participants in the Cookson 
Group Executive Share Option Scheme were notified in February 2013 
that, under the rules of this scheme, they had one month in which to 
exercise their outstanding options following the demerger. The Cookson 
shares that they acquired were compulsorily exchanged for Vesuvius 
shares pursuant to a new article which was incorporated into the 
articles of association of Cookson Group plc as part of the demerger. 
The number of Vesuvius shares which they acquired was increased to 
reflect the fact that they were not able to acquire any Alent shares. 
36,319 ordinary shares in Vesuvius plc have been issued since the year-
end in relation to the exercise of options granted under the Cookson 
Group plc share option schemes. 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Company’s 
current Articles of Association (“Articles”) and applicable English law 
concerning companies (the Companies Act 2006 (the “Companies Act”)). 
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the 
Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
98
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
AUTHORITY FOR PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other applicable 
regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares. At the General 
Meeting of the Company held on 31 October 2012 the initial Vesuvius 
shareholder gave authority to the Company to make market purchases of up 
to 27,835,743 Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Company’s 
expected issued ordinary share capital immediately after the Demerger . As at 
the date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases under this 
authority. The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority 
at the forthcoming AGM. The Company’s Articles specify that, subject to the 
authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed by a general meeting of 
the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section 551 of 
the Companies Act, up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by that 
Act. In addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority 
of shareholders in general meeting to allot equity securities for cash without 
first being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary shareholders in 
proportion to their existing holdings in connection with a rights issue and 
in other circumstances up to an aggregate nominal amount as specified in 
Section 561 of the Companies Act.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by 
transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form 
acceptable to the Directors and may be under hand only. The instrument 
of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and (except 
in the case of fully paid shares) by or on behalf of the transferee. The 
transferor will remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name 
of the transferee is entered in the register of members. 
Uncertificated shares may be transferred in accordance with the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, transfers being effected by 
means of a Relevant System (as defined in such Regulations).
The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer, 
relating to shares in certificated form, which is:
i.  not in respect of only one class of shares; or
ii.  not lodged (duly stamped if required) at the place where 
Vesuvius plc’s register is located accompanied by the relevant 
share certificate(s), and such other evidence as the Directors may 
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the 
transfer (and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some 
other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to 
do). In the case of a transfer by a recognised clearing house, or 
by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised 
investment exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will only 
be necessary if and to the extent that certificates have been issued 
in respect of the shares in question.
The Directors may also, in the case of shares in certificated form, in 
their absolute discretion refuse to register any transfer of shares (not 
being fully paid shares or, broadly, shares which are being transferred 
from a person resident in the US holding the shares in any manner 
described in Rule 12g3-2(a)(1) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (a “US Holder”) to a person who is a US Holder) provided that 
such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent 
dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and 
proper basis.
The Directors may also decline to recognise any allotment or transfer of 
shares (whether fully paid or not) which is in favour of more than four 
joint holders. If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, 
they must within two months after the date on which (a) the letter of 
allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company; or (b) the operator 
instruction was received by the Company (in the case of shares held 
in uncertificated form), send to the allottee or transferee notice of the 
refusal.
The Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of US persons 
who hold shares in the Company so as to prevent the Company from 
having obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
VOTING RIGHTS
Subject to the Company’s Articles generally and to any special rights or 
restrictions attached to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every 
shareholder who is present in person and every duly appointed proxy 
has one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder who 
is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share 
of which he is the holder. A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a 
general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or 
any of his rights to attend and speak and vote in his place. A shareholder 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting 
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to 
a different share or shares held by the shareholder. Proxies need not be 
shareholders of the Company. For the purposes of determining which 
persons are entitled to attend or vote at a meeting and how many votes 
such person may cast, the Company may specify in the notice of the 
meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the 
meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register of members 
in order to be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
No shareholder will, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be 
entitled in respect of any share held by him, to vote either personally or 
by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred 
by membership in relation to general meetings, if any call, or other 
sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of that share, 
remains unpaid; or he, or any person who appears to be interested 
in the shares held by him, has been served with a notice pursuant to 
section 793 of the Companies Act, and is in default for the prescribed 
period. In the case of joint holders of shares, only the vote of the 
senior holder who votes (and any proxies duly authorised by him) may 
be counted. For this purpose, the senior holder of a share shall be 
determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders stand 
in the register of members.
Directors’ report continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Governance
99
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends or other 
moneys payable in respect of the Company’s shares from a person with 
0.25% interest or more if such person has been served with a notice after 
failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in 
those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Whenever the share capital of Vesuvius plc is divided into different 
classes of shares, the special rights attached to any class may be varied 
or abrogated, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, either (a) 
with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal 
value of the issued shares of that class, or (b) with the sanction of a 
special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the 
shares of that class. At every separate meeting, the necessary quorum is 
two persons holding, or representing by proxy, not less than one-third 
in nominal value of the issued shares of the class (but at any adjourned 
meeting any holder of shares of the class present, in person or by proxy, 
will be a quorum). Any holder of shares of the class present in person or 
by proxy may demand a poll and every such holder will, on a poll, have 
one vote for every share of the class held by him. Subject to statute, the 
Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied 
with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters 
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction 
of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the 
holders of those shares. At every such separate general meeting the 
quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least 
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class. The rights 
conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise 
expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to 
be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu 
with them.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING
No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be 
entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either 
personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise any 
other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ 
meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him or her to 
the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition, if 
any shareholder, or any other person appearing to be interested in 
shares held by such shareholder, has been duly served with a notice 
to provide the Company with information under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act and has failed to do so within 14 days, then (unless the 
Directors otherwise determine) the shareholder shall not (for so long 
as the default continues) be entitled to attend or vote either personally 
or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise any other right 
conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ meetings.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
The Board shall not be fewer than 5 nor more than 15 in number 
save that the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time 
vary this minimum and/or maximum number of Directors. Directors 
may be appointed by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A Director 
appointed by the Board must retire from office at the first AGM after 
his appointment. A Director who retires in this way is then eligible for 
reappointment. The Board may appoint one or more Directors to any 
executive office, on such terms and for such period as it thinks fit and it 
can also terminate or vary such an appointment at any time. The Articles 
specify that at every AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the 
Vesuvius Board since the last AGM, any Director who held office at the 
time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of 
them, and any Director who has been in office, other than holding an 
executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the 
date of the meeting shall retire from office. Any Director who retires at 
an AGM may offer himself for reappointment. 
AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the Company 
by way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act. 
INTERESTS IN THE COMPANY’S SHARES 
The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in its issued 
ordinary shares: 
31 Dec 2012 
%
Current 
%
Cevian Capital II G.P . Ltd 20.01 20.01
Artisan Partners 6.10 7.20
Morgan Stanley 6.01 <3 
Axa S.A. 5.34 5.34
Pelham Capital Management CFD 5.91 5.91
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.87 4.87
Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.78 4.78
BlackRock, Inc 4.46 4.46
Fidelity Investments Ltd 4.20 4.20
Governance for Owners LLP 4.05 <3
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary 
shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing 
Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 92 and details 
of the Directors’ long-term incentive awards and, where appropriate 
their deferred share bonus awards, are set out on pages 90 and 91. 
The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on 
its behalf by:
RICHARD MALTHOUSE
Company Secretary 
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
100
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors of Vesuvius plc are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the Group and parent company (“the Company”) financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (“UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice”).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit 
or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
❯ ❯ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
❯ ❯ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
❯ ❯ for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union;
❯ ❯ for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial 
statements; and
❯ ❯ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those 
regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual 
Financial Report
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are indicated below 
confirms that to the best of their knowledge:
❯ ❯ the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
❯ ❯ the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
The names and functions of the Directors of Vesuvius plc are as follows:
John McDonough Chairman
François Wanecq Chief Executive
Chris O’Shea Chief Financial Officer
Nelda Connors Non-executive Director
Christer Gardell Non-executive Director
Jeff Hewitt Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Jane Hinkley Non-executive Director
Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director
John Sussens Non-executive Director, Senior 
Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
On behalf of the Board
CHRIS O’SHEA
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
101
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of Vesuvius plc
We have audited the financial statements of Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group 
statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of cash flows, the Group and Company balance sheets, the group statement of changes in equity, 
and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (“UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice”). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 100, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion: 
❯ ❯ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
❯ ❯ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
❯ ❯ the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
❯ ❯ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion: 
❯ ❯ the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
❯ ❯ the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
❯ ❯ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
❯ ❯ the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
❯ ❯ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
❯ ❯ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
❯ ❯ the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 93, in relation to going concern; 
❯ ❯ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 66 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
❯ ❯ certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
PAUL KOROLKIEWICZ (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
28 March 2013 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
102
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Group income statement
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012
2012 2011
Notes
Headline
performance
£m
Separately 
reported items 
£m
Total
£m
Headline
performance
£m
Separately 
reported items
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 1,547.5 — 1,547.5 1,685.8 — 1,685.8
Manufacturing costs (1,149.3) — (1,149.3) (1,249.8) — (1,249.8)
Administration, selling and distribution costs (265.2) — (265.2) (252.5) — (252.5)
Trading profit 5 133.0 — 133.0 183.5 — 183.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 18 — (17.5) (17.5) — (17.8) (17.8)
Restructuring charges 7 — (57.0) (57.0) — (7.0) (7.0)
Demerger costs 8 — (15.7) (15.7) — — —
Gains relating to employee benefits plans 31 — — — — 13.2 13.2
Profit/(loss) from operations 133.0 (90.2) 42.8 183.5 (11.6) 171.9
Finance costs 11 (50.9) — (50.9) (60.7) (1.9) (62.6)
Finance income 11 28.7 — 28.7 34.9 — 34.9
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures 0.1 — 0.1 (1.2) — (1.2)
Loss on disposal of continuing operations 10 — (2.3) (2.3) — (1.6) (1.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 110.9 (92.5) 18.4 156.5 (15.1) 141.4
Income tax costs — ordinary activities 12 (29.6) (2.0) (31.6) (41.9) 5.7 (36.2)
Profit/(loss) for the year from                              
continuing operations 81.3 (94.5) (13.2) 114.6 (9.4) 105.2
Discontinued operations 25 — 612.5 612.5 — 47.5 47.5
Profit for the year 81.3 518.0 599.3 114.6 38.1 152.7
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the parent 76.2 518.0 594.2 108.7 38.1 146.8
Non-controlling interests 5.1 — 5.1 5.9 — 5.9
Profit for the year 81.3 518.0 599.3 114.6 38.1 152.7
Earnings per share — pence 13
Continuing operations — basic (6.6) 36.0
 — diluted (6.5) 35.4
Total operations — basic 214.2 53.2
 — diluted 212.3 52.3 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
103
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Group statement of  
comprehensive income
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit for the year 599.3 152.7
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations (80.8) (47.5)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations 31.5 —
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 27 14.0 (3.3)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 27 2.3 (0.2)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit for the year 27 (0.3) —
Actuarial gains on employee benefits plans 31 1.4 39.6
Actuarial losses on employee benefits plans 31 (109.0) (18.4)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 27 (0.3) 0.1
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 12 14.8 (11.9)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of income tax (126.4) (41.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year 472.9 111.1
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent 469.5 108.7
Non-controlling interests 3.4 2.4
Total comprehensive income for the year 472.9 111.1 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
104
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Group statement of cash flows
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 14 165.3 233.3
Interest paid (24.1) (27.6)
Interest received 5.4 10.0
Income taxes paid (60.1) (55.9)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 86.5 159.8
Cash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure (80.0) (85.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 3.3 2.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired 36 (26.1) (11.3)
Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash disposed of 24 (46.2) (4.4)
Settlement of closed-out interest rate swaps (1.0) (4.0)
Dividends received from joint ventures 1.3 1.2
Other investing outflows (2.4) (2.1)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (151.1) (103.4)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before financing activities (64.6) 56.4
Cash flows from financing activities
Increase in borrowings 16 119.1 41.2
Settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts (23.7) (27.6)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 2.2 —
Purchase of own shares (19.8) (7.8)
Borrowing facility arrangement costs (5.0) (4.3)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 29 (61.2) (51.8)
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (1.2) (1.3)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 10.4 (51.6)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 16 (54.2) 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 183.9 181.4
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents (5.0) (2.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 15 124.7 183.9
Continuing 
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations
 £m 
2012
Total
£m
Continuing 
operations
 £m
Discontinued 
operations
 £m
2011
Total
£m
Free cash flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities 64.0 22.5 86.5 86.7 73.1 159.8
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 45.2 2.1 47.3 11.5 1.7 13.2
Capital expenditure (56.2) (23.8) (80.0) (66.5) (18.6) (85.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.9 3.3 1.7 0.6 2.3
Dividends received from joint ventures 1.0 0.3 1.3 — 1.2 1.2
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (1.2) — (1.2) (1.3) — (1.3)
Free cash flow 54.2 3.0 57.2 32.1 58.0 90.1 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
105
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Group balance sheet
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 277.8 399.4
Intangible assets 18 763.7 1,104.7
Employee benefits — net surpluses 31 23.3 65.6
Interests in joint ventures 14.4 31.2
Investments 4.6 5.7
Income tax recoverable 2.9 3.4
Deferred tax assets 12 17.9 20.8
Other receivables 14.1 21.7
Total non-current assets 1,118.7 1,652.5
Cash and short-term deposits 15 129.5 188.1
Inventories 21 194.1 300.2
Trade and other receivables 20 338.9 530.0
Income tax recoverable 2.8 1.9
Derivative financial instruments 22 — 3.7
Assets classified as held for sale 23 39.9 28.8
Total current assets 705.2 1,052.7
Total assets 1,823.9 2,705.2
Equity
Issued share capital 26 27.8 1,765.1
Other reserves 27 (1,399.0) (1,356.7)
Retained earnings 28 2,212.2 899.3
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 841.0 1,307.7
Non-controlling interests 26.8 24.6
Total equity 867.8 1,332.3
Liabilities
Interest-bearing borrowings 30 420.3 421.3
Employee benefits — net liabilities 31 92.1 124.3
Other payables 33 14.2 19.2
Provisions 35 31.8 55.7
Deferred tax liabilities 12 60.7 106.5
Total non-current liabilities 619.1 727.0
Interest-bearing borrowings 30 4.5 130.7
Trade and other payables 33 234.2 409.4
Income tax payable 45.0 53.6
Provisions 35 29.5 24.9
Derivative financial instruments 22 0.3 19.6
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 23 23.5 7.7
Total current liabilities 337.0 645.9
Total liabilities 956.1 1,372.9
Total equity and liabilities 1,823.9 2,705.2
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 March 2013 and signed on their behalf by:
FRANÇOIS WANECQ, Chief Executive CHRIS O’SHEA, Chief Financial Officer 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
106
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Group statement of changes in equity
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012
Issued 
share 
capital 
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Owners of
the parent
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
As at 1 January 2011 1,765.1 (1,309.3) 797.8 1,253.6 23.5 1,277.1
Profit for the year — — 146.8 146.8 5.9 152.7
Exchange differences on translation of 
the net assets of foreign operations — (44.0) — (44.0) (3.5) (47.5)
Exchange translation differences arising
on net investment hedges — (3.3) — (3.3) — (3.3)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — (0.2) — (0.2) — (0.2)
Actuarial gains on employee benefits plans — — 39.6 39.6 — 39.6
Actuarial losses on employee benefits plans — — (18.4) (18.4) — (18.4)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — 0.1 — 0.1 — 0.1
Income tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income (note 12) — — (11.9) (11.9) — (11.9)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income — (47.4) 9.3 (38.1) (3.5) (41.6)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (47.4) 156.1 108.7 2.4 111.1
Purchase of own shares — — (7.8) (7.8) — (7.8)
Recognition of share-based payments — — 5.0 5.0 — 5.0
Dividends paid (note 29) — — (51.8) (51.8) (1.3) (53.1)
Total transactions with owners — — (54.6) (54.6) (1.3) (55.9)
As at 1 January 2012 1,765.1 (1,356.7) 899.3 1,307.7 24.6 1,332.3
Profit for the year — — 594.2 594.2 5.1 599.3
Exchange differences on translation of the
net assets of foreign operations — (79.1) — (79.1) (1.7) (80.8)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal 
of foreign operations — 31.5 — 31.5 — 31.5
Exchange translation differences arising
on net investment hedges — 14.0 — 14.0 — 14.0
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — 2.3 — 2.3 — 2.3
Change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred 
to profit for the year — (0.3) — (0.3) — (0.3)
Actuarial gains on employee benefits plans — — 1.4 1.4 — 1.4
Actuarial losses on employee benefits plans — — (109.0) (109.0) — (109.0)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — (0.3) — (0.3) — (0.3)
Income tax relating to components of
other comprehensive income (note 12) — — 14.8 14.8 — 14.8
Other comprehensive (loss)/income — (31.9) (92.8) (124.7) (1.7) (126.4)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income — (31.9) 501.4 469.5 3.4 472.9
Purchase of own shares — — (19.8) (19.8) — (19.8)
Recognition of share-based payments — — 4.8 4.8 — 4.8
Dividends paid (note 29) — — (61.2) (61.2) (1.2) (62.4)
Issue of share capital 12.8 (10.4) — 2.4 — 2.4
Capital reduction satisfied by transfer of Alent plc
business (note 24) (862.4) — — (862.4) — (862.4)
Court approved capital reduction (887.7) — 887.7 — — —
Total transactions with owners (1,737.3) (10.4) 811.5 (936.2) (1.2) (937.4)
As at 31 December 2012 27.8 (1,399.0) 2,212.2 841.0 26.8 867.8 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
107
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements
1. General information
Vesuvius plc (“Vesuvius” or “the Company”) (formerly Vesuvius Technologies plc) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales 
and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary and joint 
venture companies (“the Group”) is set out in the Business Review referenced on page 93 and its registered address is shown on page 160.
2.  Basis of preparation
2.1  Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (“IFRS”) and, with the exception of defined benefits pension plans and derivative financial instruments, under the historical 
cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
2.2  Group reorganisation and demerger
On 14 December 2012, Cookson Group plc (“Cookson”) effected a group reorganisation and Vesuvius plc became the new holding company 
for Cookson via a Scheme of Arrangement. Vesuvius, which had been incorporated as Vesuvius Technologies plc on 17 September 2012, 
replaced Cookson (renamed Cookson Group Limited) as the parent company of the Cookson group from this date. On 14 December 2012 
shareholders were given one ordinary share of Vesuvius for every share of Cookson held on that date. Application was made to the UK Listing 
Authority and to the London Stock Exchange for the issued share capital of Vesuvius to be admitted to the premium listing segment of the 
Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities as from 17 December 2012. Also on 17 December 
2012, Vesuvius effected a court approved capital reduction to create distributable reserves.
The Scheme of Arrangement was accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting contained within IFRS 3, Business 
Combinations. In these consolidated financial statements, the transaction to interpose the new holding company, Vesuvius, has been 
presented as though Cookson acquired Vesuvius.
On 19 December 2012, the businesses of Cookson’s former Performance Materials division were demerged from Vesuvius and thereafter 
became the Alent group. This was achieved by the reduction of capital and repayment of capital to the shareholders of Vesuvius, the latter 
being satisfied by the transfer of the former Performance Materials division to Alent plc, in consideration for which Alent plc issued the 
entirety of its shares to Vesuvius shareholders. 
In these financial statements, the effect of adopting the principles of reverse acquisition accounting for the Scheme of Arrangement results 
in a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of Cookson, now renamed Vesuvius. As a consequence of this, the financial 
statements of Vesuvius include the full results of the Alent group of companies up to the date of the demerger becoming effective. In 
preparing the segmental disclosure of the total results of Vesuvius for 2012, the following approach has been applied:
(i) The costs incurred by Vesuvius within its central headquarters in London have been allocated in full between the underlying trading 
results of Cookson’s three divisions and therefore between continuing and discontinued operations in arriving at the results for 
Vesuvius as a whole. 
(ii) As Cookson Group Limited remained with Vesuvius after the demerger, all of the borrowings entered into by Cookson in the period up 
to the date of demerger have been treated as belonging to Vesuvius in these consolidated financial statements, with the consequence 
that all of the finance costs relating to those Cookson borrowings have been reported as finance costs of Vesuvius. Borrowings and 
borrowing costs relating to local debt arrangements established by individual Cookson Group companies other than Cookson Group 
plc have been reported according to whether they are now part of the Alent or Vesuvius group structure. This approach has also been 
applied to financial assets (net cash) and the related finance income.
(iii) Vesuvius has established similar policies to those of Cookson for managing the financial risks to which its Group activities are exposed, 
including the market risk resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates; and liquidity risk, being the risk that Vesuvius 
has insufficient debt facilities to finance its operational cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities. In managing 
these risks, Vesuvius uses derivative financial instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. As 
the borrowings entered into by Cookson in the period up to the date of demerger have been treated as belonging to Vesuvius in 
these consolidated financial statements, any hedging activity relating to those borrowings is similarly reported within these financial 
statements. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
108
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
2.  Basis of preparation (continued)
2.2  Group reorganisation and demerger (continued)
(iv) Tax charges in the consolidated financial statements have been determined based on the tax charges recorded by Vesuvius companies 
in local statutory accounts, together with certain adjustments relating to those entities made for Group consolidation purposes. The 
tax charges recorded in the Group income statement have been affected by the tax arrangements within the former Cookson Group 
and are not necessarily representative of the tax charges that would have been reported had Vesuvius been an independent group 
throughout the period covered by these financial statements, nor of tax charges that may arise in the future.
2.3  Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its “subsidiaries”). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so 
as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing whether control exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into 
account. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those 
detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s interest therein. Non-
controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-
controlling interests’ share of profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income since the date of the combination. Total 
comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance.
2.4  Going concern
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2012 
financial statements. These forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future end-market conditions and their impact on the Group’s 
future trading performance. The forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show 
continued compliance with the Company’s financial covenants. On the basis of the exercise described above and the Group’s available 
committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and 
the Company.
2.5 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and rounded to one 
decimal place. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 30.1.
2.6  Disclosure of exceptional items as “Separately reported items”
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines 
which should be disclosed. It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the face of the 
income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entity’s financial performance. In accordance with IAS 1, the Company 
has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement, within the column entitled “Separately reported 
items”, the effect of any components of financial performance for which the Directors consider separate disclosure would assist both in a 
better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation. 
Such items may include, inter alia, amortisation charges relating to intangible assets, the financial effect of major restructuring activity, profits 
or losses relating to non-current assets, gains or losses relating to employee benefits plans, finance costs, profits or losses arising on business 
disposals, and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Group’s results 
either due to their size or nature.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
109
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
2.  Basis of preparation (continued)
2.7  New and revised IFRS
During the year a number of amendments to IFRS became effective and were adopted by the Group, none of which had a material impact on 
the Group’s net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share. A number of other new and amended IFRS 
were issued during the year which do not become effective until after 1 January 2013, none of which are likely to have a material impact on 
the Group’s net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
3.  Critical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Determining the carrying amount of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effect of uncertain future events. The major sources 
of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are 
noted below.
3.1  Goodwill and other intangible assets
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value that will 
benefit the performance of the Group over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at  
least annually, of the carrying value of the Group’s capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets. In the assessment undertaken as at  
31 December 2012, further details of which are given in note 19, value in use was derived from discounted five-year cash flow projections, 
using a growth rate of 2.5% in the years beyond the projection period and pre-tax discount rates. The projection period is, in the opinion 
of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s businesses for this purpose. Changes to the 
assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other 
intangible assets.
3.2  Employee benefits
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-retirement 
benefits to current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of 
the costs of meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Group’s actuaries and include those used 
to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans’ assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors believe that the 
assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used could affect the Group’s profit and financial position.
3.3  Liability reserves
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and 
environmental matters. Several of the Group’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the 
ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute 
with tax authorities. Reserves are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or 
other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which reserve is made is subject 
to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty. The Directors use their 
judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate amount relating to such matters. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
110
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
3.  Critical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.4  Taxation
(a)  Current tax
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group. In assessing the amount 
of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of negotiations, 
litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement. Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are 
provided for in the tax charge. The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions. As a consequence, the 
Group is routinely subject to tax audits and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude. 
Provisions are made for known issues based upon the Directors’ interpretation of country-specific tax law and their assessment of the likely 
outcome.
(b)  Deferred tax
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a number of the Group’s 
businesses. Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised. If these 
forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing differences might 
be recognised, then the value of deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group also has losses and other timing differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in these financial statements, 
relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of the timing difference is not probable or to where the timing 
difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits. If trading or other 
appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the 
form of a reduced tax charge.
4.  Non-GAAP financial measures
The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”) financial measures in addition to those reported 
in accordance with IFRS. The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing the underlying 
financial and operating performance of the Group and its divisions.
4.1  Headline 
Headline performance is from continuing operations (excluding Alent and the Precious Metals Processing division) and before items reported 
separately on the face of the income statement. 
4.2 Underlying 
Underlying performance is adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in exchange rates and business acquisitions, disposals and closures. 
4.3 Return on sales 
Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue. 
4.4 Trading profit
Trading profit is defined as profit from operations before exceptional items. The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure 
of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
4.5  Headline profit before tax
Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Group’s share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total 
net finance costs associated with ordinary activities. 
4.6  Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share is calculated as headline profit before tax and after income tax costs associated with ordinary activities and profit 
attributable to non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
111
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
4.  Non-GAAP financial measures (continued)
4.7  Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and 
equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to 
Group pension plans. 
4.8 Average working capital to sales ratio
The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances to the annualised revenue 
for the year. Average working capital (comprising inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables) is calculated as the 
average of the six previous month-end balances, and annualised revenue is derived from the revenue for the previous six months. 
4.9 EBITDA
EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges. 
4.10 Net interest
Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein considered by the Directors to 
be exceptional.
4.11 Interest cover
Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest. 
4.12  Net debt
Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings and cash and short-term deposits. 
4.13 Net debt to EBITDA
Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year. 
4.14  Return on net assets
Return on net assets (“RONA ”) is calculated as trading profit plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by average net operating assets 
(being the average over the previous 12 months of property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and 
payables).  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
112
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
5.  Segment information
The segment information contained in this note makes reference to several non-GAAP financial measures, definitions for which can be found 
in note 4.
5.1 Accounting policy
(a)  Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers after 
deducting rebates, discounts and value-added taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised 
when persuasive evidence exists, usually in the form of an executed sales agreement, that the significant risks and rewards of ownership have 
been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and 
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. A provision for anticipated returns is made based primarily on historical return rates. Where 
a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate elements that can be provided to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as 
an extra, such as the provision of supplementary materials with equipment, revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual 
contractual arrangement.
(b) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. Expenditure on 
development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources 
to complete development. All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is 
incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
5.2 Business segments
Operating segments for continuing operations
For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into two main business segments: Steel and Foundry and the senior executive management 
of each of these business segments reports to the Chief Executive of the Group. It is the Vesuvius Board which makes the key operating 
decisions in respect of these segments. The information used by the Vesuvius Board to review performance and determine resource allocation 
between the business segments is presented with the Group’s activities segmented between the two business segments, Steel and Foundry. 
Taking into account the basis on which the Group’s activities are reported to the Vesuvius Board, the Directors believe that these two 
business segments are the appropriate way to analyse the Group’s results. The principal activities of each of these segments are described in 
the Operating Review on pages 17 to 27.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers (inter-segment revenue is not material). Trading profit includes items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations in 2012 include the results of the Alent group of companies for the period up to 19 December 2012, when they 
were demerged from Vesuvius, together with the results of the US Precious Metals Processing business for the period up to 1 May 2012 
when it was sold and the European Precious Metals Processing business, which was held for sale as at 31 December 2012, for the whole of 
the year. Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly. 
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
113
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
5.3 Income statement
The operating segment results from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 December 2012 are presented below.
2012
Steel
£m
Foundry
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Segment revenue 1,017.3 530.2 1,547.5
Segment EBITDA 108.9 67.2 176.1
Segment depreciation (25.1) (18.0) (43.1)
Segment trading profit 83.8 49.2 133.0
Amortisation of intangible assets (17.5)
Restructuring charges (57.0)
Demerger costs (15.7)
Profit from operations 42.8
Finance costs — ordinary activities (50.9)
Finance income 28.7
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 0.1
Loss on disposal of continuing operations (2.3)
Profit before tax 18.4
Return on sales margin (%) 8.2 9.3 8.6
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 38.5 18.7 57.2
2011
Steel
£m
Foundry
£m
Continuing
operations
£m
Segment revenue 1,078.0 607.8 1,685.8
Segment EBITDA 131.8 95.8 227.6
Segment depreciation (24.6) (19.5) (44.1)
Segment trading profit 107.2 76.3 183.5
Amortisation of intangible assets (17.8)
Restructuring charges (7.0)
Gains relating to employee benefits plans 13.2
Profit from operations 171.9
Finance costs — ordinary activities (60.7)
 — exceptional items (1.9)
Finance income 34.9
Share of post-tax loss of joint ventures (1.2)
Loss on disposal of continuing operations (1.6)
Profit before tax 141.4
Return on sales margin (%) 9.9 12.6 10.9
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 33.5 25.5 59.0 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
114
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
5. Segment information (continued)
5.6 Geographic analysis 
External revenue Non-current assets
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
United States of America 290.4 268.0 209.6 335.4
Germany 212.5 212.0 106.9 126.9
China 102.9 130.5 69.6 122.0
United Kingdom 78.3 76.4 167.6 198.2
Brazil 93.4 118.3 62.3 70.5
India 91.3 97.6 41.4 47.9
France 61.1 64.4 14.7 18.8
Spain 43.1 46.8 44.7 50.1
Rest of the world 574.5 671.8 347.9 582.6
Continuing operations 1,547.5 1,685.8 1,064.7 1,552.4
External revenue disclosed in the table above is based upon the geographical location of the operation. The Group’s customers are widely 
dispersed around the world and no single country included within Rest of the World in the table above, for either of the years presented, 
amounts to more than 10% of the total external revenue of continuing operations. Non-current assets exclude employee benefits net 
surpluses and deferred tax assets.
5.7 Products and customers
Information relating to the Group’s products and services is given in the Operating Review on pages 17 to 27. The Group is not dependent 
upon any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years presented in the tables above, accounts for more than 
10% of the Group’s total external revenue.
6.  Amounts payable to KPMG LLP and its associates
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.6 0.5
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 2.4 2.0
Tax compliance 0.2 0.2
Tax advisory 0.4 0.1
Other assurance services — 0.1
Corporate finance services relating to the demerger 2.3 —
Total Auditor’s remuneration 5.9 2.9
Of the total Auditor’s remuneration of £5.9m (2011: £2.9m), £2.9m (2011: £nil) relates to discontinued activities, including £1.6m of non-
audit fees, with £3.0m relating to continuing operations, including £1.3m of non-audit fees.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
115
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
7.  Restructuring charges
The restructuring charge for the year from continuing operations was £57.0m (2011: £7.0m) and arose in connection with initiatives that 
included redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure of facilities, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of 
product lines. Of the total charge, £46.3m arose in connection with the actions taken during 2012 to downsize the Solar Crucibles operations of 
the Foundry division. Of the total charges of £57.0m, £40.8m represented non-cash asset write-offs, with the remaining £16.2m of total charges 
comprising cash-related costs in respect of redundancy and other cost-reduction initiatives. The net tax credit attributable to these restructuring 
charges was £4.6m (2011: £1.4m).
Cash costs of £11.4m (2011: £9.3m) were incurred in the year in respect of the restructuring initiatives commenced both in 2012 and in prior 
years, leaving provisions made but unspent of £17.1m (note 35) as at 31 December 2012 (2011: £12.0m), of which £5.6m relates to future 
costs in respect of leases expiring between one and ten years.
8.  Demerger costs
The cash costs associated with the preparation and execution of the demerger of the Alent group of businesses from Cookson Group plc, 
to the extent that they were allocated to Vesuvius, have been separately reported in the income statement. Costs totalling £15.7m have 
been charged in the year, primarily relating to professional adviser fees for financial, audit, accounting, legal and pensions advice. Fees in 
connection with the negotiated changes to the former Cookson debt arrangements in order to provide Vesuvius with ongoing borrowing 
facilities were £2.0m and have, as required by IFRS, been capitalised against the associated borrowings and are being amortised over the 
expected life of those debt arrangements.
Tax-related costs of £11.4m were incurred in connection with the transactions necessary to reorganise the legal entity structure of the former 
Cookson group of companies so as to facilitate the demerger.
In addition to the costs charged to the income statement noted above, a cash injection of £38.0m was agreed with the UK pension plan 
Trustee to be paid into the UK defined benefit plan in mitigation for the loss of strength in the employer covenant which resulted from the 
demerger as a consequence of the two UK Alent participating employers leaving the plan. The mitigation payment did not represent a charge 
to the income statement under IFRS, but is reported as an additional employer funding contribution to the UK pension plan. Of the total 
£38.0m, £34.0m was paid in December 2012, with the remaining £4.0m paid in January 2013. See note 31 for further information.
9.  Employees
9.1  Employee benefits expense
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 439.0 493.5
Social security costs 55.7 58.8
Share-based payments (note 32) 4.3 5.2
Pension costs — defined contribution pension plans (note 31) 17.0 17.7
 — defined benefit pension plans (note 31) (1.5) (9.1)
Other post-retirement benefits (note 31) 0.9 0.9
Total employee benefits expense 515.4 567.0
Of the total employee benefits expense of £515.4m (2011: £567.0m), £367.4m (2011: £416.9m) was charged in arriving at trading profit, 
£nil (2011: £13.2m) was credited within gains relating to employee benefits plans, £27.5m (2011: £30.7m) was charged within ordinary 
finance costs, £26.9m (2011: £29.0m) was credited within finance income, and £147.4m (2011: £161.6m) was charged to profit on disposal 
of discontinued operations. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
116
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
9.  Employees (continued)
9.2  Average number of employees
2012
No.
2011
No.
Steel 7,805 7,989
Foundry 3,798 4,070
Continuing operations 11,603 12,059
Discontinued 3,164 4,069
Total average number of employees 14,767 16,128
9.3  Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the 
audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 91.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.1 2.2
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments 1.9 3.1
Total remuneration of key management personnel 4.4 5.7
10.  Loss on disposal of continuing operations
The net loss on disposal of continuing operations comprises £4.0m profit on sale of the Andreco-Hurll refractory lining installation business in 
Australia, together with the write-down of £2.7m related to assets of a non-core business held for sale as at 31 December 2012, plus £3.6m 
of trailing costs of prior year disposals. The tax charge attributable to these transactions was £1.9m (2011: £0.4m credit).
11.  Finance costs and finance income
11.1  Accounting policy
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges is included within interest payable on 
loans and overdrafts. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. All other borrowing 
costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
117
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
11.  Finance costs and finance income
11.2  Total net finance costs
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest payable on borrowings
Loans, overdrafts and factoring arrangements 20.6 27.2
Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2
Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 1.2 1.2
Total interest payable on borrowings 22.0 28.6
Other interest payable
Interest on retirement benefits obligations 27.5 30.7
Unwinding of discounted provisions 1.4 1.4
Total ordinary finance costs 50.9 60.7
Exceptional finance costs — 1.9
Total finance costs 50.9 62.6
Interest receivable (1.4) (5.5)
Expected return on retirement benefits assets (26.9) (29.0)
Unwinding of discounted receivables (0.4) (0.4)
Total finance income (28.7) (34.9)
Total net finance costs 22.2 27.7
11.3  Exceptional finance costs
The exceptional finance costs incurred in 2011 resulted from the early write-off of unamortised borrowing costs as a consequence of the Group 
entering into a new revolving credit facility in 2011. The costs written off related to the old facility that had been due to expire in 2012. 
12.  Income tax
12.1  Accounting policy
Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent 
that they relate to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the associated tax is also 
dealt with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because 
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other 
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or 
substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
118
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
12.  Income tax (continued)
12.1  Accounting policy (continued)
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred 
tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on 
a net basis.
12.2  Income tax costs
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current tax
Overseas taxation 40.4 41.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 (0.8)
Total current tax, continuing operations 40.7 41.0
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences (10.3) (4.2)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 (0.6)
Total deferred tax, continuing operations (9.1) (4.8)
Discontinued operations 31.1 22.7
Total income tax costs 62.7 58.9
Total income tax costs attributable to:
Continuing operations — Ordinary activities 29.6 41.9
 — Exceptional items 2.0 (5.7)
Discontinued operations 31.1 22.7
Total income tax costs 62.7 58.9
The Group’s total income tax costs relating to exceptional items are analysed in the following table:
Exceptional items
2012
£m
2011
£m
Restructuring charges 4.6 1.4
Demerger costs (11.4) —
Amortisation of intangibles 6.7 7.2
Gains relating to employee benefits plans — (3.3)
Disposal of continuing operations (1.9) 0.4
Total tax (charge)/credit on exceptional items (2.0) 5.7
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
119
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
12.  Income tax (continued)
12.2  Income tax costs (continued)
Tax credited in the Group statement of comprehensive income in the year amounted to £14.8m (2011: £11.9m charge), all of which related 
to net actuarial gains and losses on employee benefits plans. 
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices. Changes in any of these areas could, adversely 
or positively, impact the Group’s tax charge in the future. Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any 
subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2012, as effective tax relief may not be available for those 
losses or expenses. Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in notes 3.4 and 12.1.
12.3  Reconciliation of income tax costs to profit before tax
2012
 £m
2011
£m
Profit before tax 18.4 141.4
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate
of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 4.5 37.5
Overseas tax rate differences 8.8 7.3
Withholding taxes 5.8 2.5
Amortisation of intangibles (2.4) (2.6)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 14.1 3.4
Deferred tax assets not recognised 11.0 (4.8)
Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses (11.7) (5.7)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.5 (1.4)
Total income tax costs 31.6 36.2
12.4  Deferred tax
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Other
operating
losses
£m
Pension
costs
£m
Intangible
assets
£m
Timing
differences
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 January 2011 (3.8) 4.6 5.3 (88.7) 6.8 (75.8)
Exchange adjustments 0.3 (0.3) — 0.8 (0.6) 0.2
Charge to Group statement of comprehensive income — — (11.9) — — (11.9)
Credit/(charge) to Group income statement 0.2 0.8 (3.8) 4.3 0.3 1.8
As at 1 January 2012 (3.3) 5.1 (10.4) (83.6) 6.5 (85.7)
Exchange adjustments 1.6 (0.6) (1.0) 2.9 (0.5) 2.4
Credit to Group statement of comprehensive income — — 14.8 — — 14.8 
Credit/(charge) to Group income statement (0.3) (1.0) 1.1 2.1 (0.2) 1.7
Transferred to held for sale — — (0.8) 0.1 (1.0) (1.7)
Business disposals 0.5 (3.5) (0.6) 28.9 0.4 25.7
As at 31 December 2012 (1.5) — 3.1 (49.6) 5.2 (42.8)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Non-current deferred tax assets 17.9 20.8
Non-current deferred tax liabilities (60.7) (106.5)
Net total deferred tax liabilities (42.8) (85.7) 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
120
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
12.  Income tax (continued)
12.4  Deferred tax (continued)
Tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences of £7.0m (2011: £1.6m) were recognised by subsidiaries reporting a loss in 2011 or 
2012. On the basis of approved business plans of these subsidiaries, the Directors consider it probable that the tax loss carry-forwards and 
temporary differences can be offset against future taxable profits.
The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2012 was £336.6m (2011: £483.7m), as analysed below. In accordance with 
the accounting policy in note 12.1, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that their future economic 
benefit is not probable. In total, there was a decrease of £147.1m (2011: increase £0.7m) in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during  
the year.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Capital losses available to offset future UK capital gains (may be carried forward indefinitely) 38.0 41.9
Operating losses 144.3 230.9
Unrelieved US interest (may be carried forward indefinitely) 91.8 92.3
UK ACT credits (may be carried forward indefinitely) 13.1 13.1
Other timing differences 49.4 105.5
Total deferred tax not recognised 336.6 483.7
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of £144.3m (2011: £236.0m). 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Losses available to set against future US taxable income:
Due to expire in 2020 — 7.6
Due to expire 2022 to 2031 34.9 95.4
US operating losses 34.9 103.0
Losses available to set against future UK taxable income (may be carried forward 
indefinitely) 87.5 101.5
Losses available to set against future taxable income in ROW:
Due to expire within 5 years 7.9 11.8
Due to expire between 5 and 20 years 2.0 4.2
Carried forward indefinitely 12.0 15.5
ROW operating losses 21.9 31.5
Total net operating losses 144.3 236.0
The above losses available relating to the rest of the world arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread 
of the Group’s operations. 
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
121
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
12.  Income tax (continued)
12.4  Deferred tax (continued)
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of £3.5m (2011: £10.2m) as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
US research and experimentation credits (due to expire 2018 to 2031) 1.0 2.8
US foreign tax credits (due to expire 2014 to 2018) 2.5 7.4
US tax credits 3.5 10.2
Due to changes in UK tax law enacted in 2009 exempting dividends received from UK tax, there are no temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised. 
From 1 April 2012, the UK corporation tax rate reduced to 24% from 25%. A further UK corporation tax rate reduction to 23% was 
substantially enacted on 3 July 2012 and will have effect from 1 April 2013. It is the UK Government’s intention to enact legislation 
which will reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax to 22% by 2014, although this has not yet been substantively enacted under IFRS. 
Accordingly, the Group’s closing UK deferred tax liability has been provided using a tax rate of 23%. The impact of using this lower tax rate 
was to increase the exceptional tax credit relating to the amortisation of intangible assets from £4.7m to £6.7m.
13.  Earnings per share (“EPS”)
13.1  Per share amounts
Continuing
operations
pence
Discontinued
operations
pence
2012
Total
pence
Continuing
operations
pence
Discontinued
operations
pence
2011
Total
pence
Earnings/(loss) per share — basic (6.6) 220.8 214.2 36.0 17.2 53.2
 — diluted (6.5) 218.8 212.3 35.4 16.9 52.3
 — headline 27.5 60.5 39.4 70.4
 — diluted headline 27.2 60.0 38.7 69.1
13.2 Earnings for EPS
Basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations are based upon the loss attributable to owners of the parent, as reported in the Group 
income statement, of £18.3m (2011: £99.3m profit), being the loss for the year of £13.2m (2011: £105.2m profit) less non-controlling 
interests of £5.1m (2011: £5.9m); basic and diluted EPS from total operations are based on the profit attributable to owners of the parent 
of £594.2m (2011: £146.8m); headline and diluted headline EPS are based upon headline profit from continuing operations attributable to 
owners of the parent of £76.2m (2011: £108.7m). The table below reconciles these different profit measures. 
Continuing
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations
 £m
2012
Total
£m
Continuing 
operations
 £m
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
2011
Total
£m
Profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent (18.3) 612.5 594.2 99.3 47.5 146.8
Adjustments for exceptional items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 17.5 — 17.5 17.8 — 17.8
Restructuring charges 57.0 3.8 60.8 7.0 1.9 8.9
Demerger costs 15.7 10.0 25.7 — — —
Gains relating to employee benefits plans — — — (13.2) (2.0) (15.2)
Exceptional finance costs — — — 1.9 — 1.9
Loss on disposal of continuing operations 2.3 — 2.3 1.6 — 1.6
(Profit)/loss on disposal of discontinued operations — (541.3) (541.3) — 34.9 34.9
Tax relating to exceptional items 2.0 6.7 8.7 (5.7) 3.2 (2.5)
Headline profit attributable to owners of the 
parent 76.2 91.7 167.9 108.7 85.5 194.2 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
122
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
13.  Earnings per share (“EPS”) (continued)
13.3  Weighted average number of shares
2012
m
2011
m
For calculating basic and headline EPS 277.4 275.7
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 2.5 5.2
For calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS 279.9 280.9
As a result of the reorganisation of the Cookson legal structure, Vesuvius plc became the new parent of Cookson Group plc. Therefore the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding has been calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Vesuvius plc
at the date of reorganisation, 17 December 2012, and adjusted for movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cookson Group plc 
from the beginning of each period prior to the reorganisation and movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the 
reorganisation date to 31 December 2012 using the actual number of ordinary shares in Vesuvius plc outstanding during that period.
For the purposes of calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to the 
Company’s share-based payment plans. Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would 
decrease EPS, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations. 
In addition to the ordinary shares shown as being dilutive in the table above, the Company had no (2011: 0.2m) outstanding options and 
share awards in relation to its share-based payment plans that could dilute EPS in the future, but which are not included in the calculation of 
diluted and diluted headline EPS above because they were anti-dilutive in the years presented.
14.  Cash generated from operations
Continuing 
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations
 £m 
2012
Total
£m
Continuing 
operations
 £m
Discontinued 
operations
 £m
2011
Total
£m
Profit from operations 42.8 103.2 146.0 171.9 106.8 278.7
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 17.5 — 17.5 17.8 — 17.8
Restructuring charges 57.0 3.8 60.8 7.0 1.9 8.9
Demerger costs 15.7 10.0 25.7 — — —
Gains relating to employee benefits plans — — — (13.2) (2.0) (15.2)
Depreciation 43.1 9.8 52.9 44.1 12.2 56.3
EBITDA 176.1 126.8 302.9 227.6 118.9 346.5
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 39.5 (7.2) 32.3 (32.6) (5.1) (37.7)
Decrease/(increase) in trade receivables 13.6 (10.9) 2.7 (24.0) 2.2 (21.8)
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables (31.6) (8.7) (40.3) 5.2 (6.3) (1.1)
Increase in other working capital balances (10.3) (24.8) (35.1) (13.9) (12.3) (26.2)
Net decrease/(increase) in trade and other working 
capital 11.2 (51.6) (40.4) (65.3) (21.5) (86.8)
Net operating outflow related to assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale 0.7 0.4 1.1 — — —
Outflow related to restructuring charges (11.4) (20.5) (31.9) (9.3) (3.9) (13.2)
Outflow related to demerger costs (12.5) (6.6) (19.1) — — —
Additional pension funding contributions (45.2) (2.1) (47.3) (11.5) (1.7) (13.2)
Cash generated from operations 118.9 46.4 165.3 141.5 91.8 233.3
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
123
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
15.  Cash and cash equivalents
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term deposits 8.2 42.1
Cash at bank and in hand 121.3 146.0
Cash and short-term deposits 129.5 188.1
Bank overdrafts (4.8) (4.2)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group statement of cash flows 124.7 183.9
Short-term deposits include demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable 
on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
16.  Reconciliation of movement in net debt
Balance 
as at
1 January
2012
£m
Foreign
exchange
adjustments
£m
Non-cash
movements
£m
Debt
disposed
£m
Cash flow
£m
Balance
as at
31 December
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
Short-term deposits 42.1 (0.5) — — (33.4) 8.2
Cash at bank and in hand 146.0 (4.5) — — (20.2) 121.3
Bank overdrafts (4.2) — — — (0.6) (4.8)
(54.2)
Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts
Current (127.7) 2.5 — 1.8 121.6 (1.8)
Non-current (424.4) 13.9 — 227.8 (240.7) (423.4)
Capitalised borrowing costs 4.3 — 3.8 (2.9) — 5.2
(119.1)
Net debt (363.9) 11.4 3.8 226.7 (173.3) (295.3)
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and 
short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
124
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
17. Property, plant and equipment
17.1 Accounting policy 
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future 
economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged 
to the Group income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset 
is available for use and is charged to the Group income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the 
asset over its estimated useful life as follows:
Asset category Estimated useful life
Freehold property between 10 and 50 years
Leasehold property the term of the lease
Plant and equipment — motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years
 — information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years
 — other between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each 
financial year-end. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, 
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. As described in note 19.1, an asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to 
its recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on disposals are 
determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the Group income statement.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
125
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
17. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
17.2 Movement in net book value
Freehold
property
£m
Leasehold
property
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Construction
in progress
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 2011 215.8 23.5 660.6 44.4 944.3
Exchange adjustments (5.2) (2.3) (17.9) (0.9) (26.3)
Capital expenditure additions 5.4 1.5 39.3 31.3 77.5
Business combinations — — 0.3 — 0.3
Disposals (5.6) (1.1) (25.0) — (31.7)
Business disposals — (0.7) — — (0.7)
Reclassifications (3.3) 0.1 29.4 (26.2) —
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (7.1) — (43.0) (0.8) (50.9)
As at 1 January 2012 200.0 21.0 643.7 47.8 912.5
Exchange adjustments (8.8) (0.5) (26.0) (1.6) (36.9)
Capital expenditure additions 10.2 0.8 41.8 28.1 80.9
Business combinations 5.5 — 4.2 — 9.7
Disposals (9.7) (0.1) (74.6) — (84.4)
Business disposals (note 24) (2.8) — — — (2.8)
Reclassifications (2.0) 2.5 23.9 (24.4) —
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (6.6) (3.3) (19.1) — (29.0)
Demerger of Alent plc (note 24) (52.4) (16.8) (133.2) (18.2) (220.6)
As at 31 December 2012 133.4 3.6 460.7 31.7 629.4
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 2011 87.6 10.1 435.3 — 533.0
Exchange adjustments (1.8) (0.9) (11.0) — (13.7)
Depreciation charge 6.1 1.4 48.8 — 56.3
Impairment charge 0.1 — 0.1 — 0.2
Disposals (2.3) (0.5) (20.3) — (23.1)
Business disposals — (0.4) — — (0.4)
Reclassifications (3.2) 0.4 2.8 — —
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (3.5) — (35.7) — (39.2)
As at 1 January 2012 83.0 10.1 420.0 — 513.1
Exchange adjustments (3.7) (0.3) (16.1) — (20.1)
Depreciation charge 5.0 2.0 45.9 — 52.9
Disposals (3.9) — (35.4) — (39.3)
Business disposals (note 24) (0.7) — — — (0.7)
Reclassifications (1.4) 1.4 — — —
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (0.9) (1.7) (13.0) — (15.6)
Demerger of Alent plc (note 24) (29.9) (9.4) (99.4) — (138.7)
As at 31 December 2012 47.5 2.1 302.0 — 351.6
Net book value as at 31 December 2012 85.9 1.5 158.7 31.7 277.8
Net book value as at 31 December 2011 117.0 10.9 223.7 47.8 399.4
Net book value as at 1 January 2011 128.2 13.4 225.3 44.4 411.3
The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2012, 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2011 was not material.  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
126
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
18.  Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets that have been acquired through business combinations.
18.1 Accounting policy
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is initially recognised as an asset at cost, measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest acquired over the net of the 
acquisition-date fair value amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain 
purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, 
with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the 
goodwill has been allocated may be impaired. On disposal of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the calculation of 
the profit or loss on disposal. 
(b) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal 
rights, and their value can be measured reliably. They are initially measured at cost, which is equal to the acquisition date fair value, and subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated amortisation charges and accumulated impairment losses. Other intangible assets are subject to impairment 
testing when there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been incurred and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
18.2  Movement in net book value
2012 2011
Goodwill
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 January 904.0 273.1 1,177.1 945.1 277.4 1,222.5
Exchange adjustments (37.4) (6.7) (44.1) (17.9) (4.3) (22.2)
Business combinations (note 36) 14.0 — 14.0 8.3 — 8.3
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (note 23) (6.0) — (6.0) (31.5) — (31.5)
Demerger of Alent plc (note 24) (295.0) — (295.0) — — —
As at 31 December 579.6 266.4 846.0 904.0 273.1 1,177.1
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 6.1 66.3 72.4 36.2 49.2 85.4
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.5) (1.6) — (0.7) (0.7)
Amortisation charge for the year — 17.5 17.5 — 17.8 17.8
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (note 23) (6.0) — (6.0) (30.1) — (30.1)
As at 31 December — 82.3 82.3 6.1 66.3 72.4
Net book value as at 31 December 579.6 184.1 763.7 897.9 206.8 1,104.7
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
127
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
18.  Intangible assets (continued)
18.3  Analysis of goodwill by cash-generating unit (“CGU”)
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination. For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has three CGUs: the Steel division, the Foundry 
division and the Precious Metals Processing division. These CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored. 
The goodwill attributable to the Precious Metals Processing CGU has been fully impaired and consequently the amount recognised in the 
Group balance sheet is £nil (2011: £nil).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Steel 374.5 383.1
Foundry 205.1 216.0
Discontinued operations — 298.8
Total goodwill 579.6 897.9
18.4  Analysis of other intangible assets
Other intangible assets arose in 2008 on the acquisition of Foseco plc and are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives. The assets acquired and their remaining useful lives are shown below.
Remaining
useful life
years
Net book
value as at
31 December
2012
£m
Foseco — customer relationships (useful life: 20 years) 15.3 86.7
 — trade name (useful life: 20 years) 15.3 55.3
 — intellectual property rights (useful life: 10 years) 5.3 42.1
Total 184.1
19.  Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
19.1  Accounting policy
At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying value of the Group’s tangible and other intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. Where it is not feasible to estimate the recoverable amount of an 
individual asset, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination and the Directors carry out annual impairment testing of the carrying value of each CGU, to assess the need for any impairment 
of the carrying value of the associated goodwill and other intangible and tangible assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its 
value in use. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount 
of each asset in the CGU. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. An impairment loss recognised 
in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the estimates used to measure the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. The value in use calculations of the Group’s CGUs are based on detailed business 
plans covering a three year period from the balance sheet date, higher level assumptions covering a further two year period and perpetuity 
calculations beyond this five year projection period. The cash flows in the calculations are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount 
rates. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
128
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
19.  Impairment of tangible and intangible assets (continued)
19.2  Key assumptions
The key assumptions used in determining value in use are return on sales, growth rates and discount rates. Return on sales assumptions 
are based on historical financial information, adjusted to factor in the anticipated impact of restructuring and rationalisation plans already 
announced at the balance sheet date.
Growth rates are determined with reference to: current market conditions; external forecasts and historical trends for the Group’s key end-
markets of steel production and foundry castings; and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group business 
unit operates. A perpetuity growth rate of 2.5% (2011: 2.5%) has been applied based on the long-term growth rates experienced in the 
Group’s end-markets and external forecasts. The Group’s projections are based on historical trends and external forecasts.
Discount rates are calculated for each CGU, reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each CGU. The 
pre-tax discount rate used for the Steel CGU was 12.2% and for the Foundry CGU was 15.4%. In the prior year, the Steel and Foundry CGUs 
were reported as a combined Engineered Ceramics CGU, for which the pre-tax discount rate was 14.9%. 
19.3  Goodwill impairment
In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2012, the Directors made use of detailed calculations of the recoverable 
amount of the Group’s CGUs as at 31 December 2012. Those calculations resulted in recoverable amounts significantly higher than the 
carrying values of each of the Group’s CGUs and consequently no impairment charges were recognised.
20.  Trade and other receivables
20.1 Accounting policy
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method, less impairment losses.
20.2  Analysis of trade and other receivables
2012 2011
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Net
£m
Gross
£m
Impairment
£m
Net
£m
Trade receivables — current 195.7 (3.2) 192.5 325.4 (3.2) 322.2
 — 1 to 30 days past due 45.8 (0.8) 45.0 68.4 (0.9) 67.5
 — 31 to 60 days past due 17.2 (0.2) 17.0 22.5 (1.0) 21.5
 — 61 to 90 days past due 8.4 (1.4) 7.0 11.6 (0.6) 11.0
 — over 90 days past due 42.4 (22.4) 20.0 44.3 (22.0) 22.3
Trade receivables 309.5 (28.0) 281.5 472.2 (27.7) 444.5
Other receivables 27.0 40.8
Prepayments and accrued income 30.4 44.7
Total trade and other receivables 338.9 530.0
All of the Group’s operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the customers with whom 
they do business. Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference 
between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered. Evidence of impairment may include such 
factors as the customer being in breach of contract, or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings. Impairment provisions 
are assessed on an individual customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances, based upon 
historical loss experience. Historical experience has shown that the Group’s trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are 
sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
129
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
20.  Trade and other receivables (continued)
20.3  Movements on impairment provisions
2012
£m
2011
£m
As at 1 January 27.7 31.3
Exchange adjustments (1.0) (0.9)
Charge for the year 11.9 8.4
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (4.4) (4.4)
Unused amounts reversed (0.8) (1.1)
Transferred to assets classified as held for sale (1.3) (5.6)
Demerger of Alent plc business (note 24) (4.1) —
As at 31 December 28.0 27.7
 
Write-offs and the reversal of unused amounts shown in the table above are charged or credited as appropriate within administration, selling 
and distribution costs in the Group income statement. Of the total provision for impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2012 of 
£28.0m (2011: £27.7m) shown in the table above, £24.2m (2011: £22.8m) related to balances that were impaired on an individual basis. 
The ageing analysis of these individually impaired balances is shown in the table below.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Ageing analysis of individually impaired trade receivable balances
Current 1.3 1.1
1 to 30 days past due 0.7 0.5
31 to 60 days past due 0.2 0.7
61 to 90 days past due 1.4 0.5
Over 90 days past due 20.6 20.0
Total individually impaired trade receivable balances 24.2 22.8
Due to the large number of customers with which the Group transacts its business with, none of which represent a significant proportion of 
the total outstanding trade receivables balance, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk. There is no significant 
difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other receivable balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group 
balance sheet. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
130
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
21.  Inventories
21.1 Accounting policy
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using the first in, first out method) and net realisable value. Cost comprises expenditure incurred 
in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location 
and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. The amount of 
any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
21.2 Analysis of inventories
2012
£m
2011
£m
Raw materials 67.2 110.4
Work-in-progress 16.2 33.4
Finished goods 110.7 156.4
Total inventories 194.1 300.2
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year was £1,206.9m 
(2011: £1,459.2m). £517.9m (2011: £721.6m) of this expense related to discontinued operations.
As at 31 December 2012, in addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held £183.3m (2011: £362.8m) of precious 
metals on consignment terms and £57.1m (2011: £271.4m) of precious metals on behalf of customers for processing. 
22.  Derivative financial instruments
22.1 Accounting policy
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, forward commodity 
contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate risk. 
The way in which derivatives are used to manage the Group’s financial risk is detailed in note 30.
Derivatives are measured at fair value. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts and forward commodity contracts is calculated 
using market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of an interest rate swap is the estimated amount that the Group would receive 
or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap 
counterparty.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument for hedge accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Strict conditions have to be satisfied in order to 
qualify for hedge accounting, including a determination both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis that the hedge is expected 
to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The change in fair value of 
a derivative that is not designated as a hedging instrument for hedge accounting purposes is recognised within trading profit in the Group 
income statement. Wherever possible, the Group avoids the administrative burden of hedge accounting, and does not designate a derivative 
as a hedge when, in the absence of hedge accounting, the change in fair value of the hedged item is itself recognised within trading profit in 
the Group income statement in the same period as the change in fair value of the derivative. No derivatives are held for speculative purposes. 
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
131
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
22.  Derivative financial instruments (continued)
22.1 Accounting policy (continued)
Cash flow hedges
The effective part of any gain or loss on a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit, or 
within finance costs in the case of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. When the transaction that was being hedged is 
realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the 
income statement in the same period.
Fair value hedges
The change in fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recognised within trading profit in the Group income 
statement. The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in its fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk and this 
adjustment is recognised within trading profit in the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges
The effective part of any gain or loss on a derivative that is designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised 
in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity, and is subsequently recognised in the Group income 
statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately 
within trading profit in the Group income statement.
22.2  Analysis of derivative financial instruments
2012 2011
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Cash flow hedges — 0.1 0.4 2.5
Fair value hedges — — 2.5 0.1
Net investment hedges — — — 15.6
Other derivatives — not designated for hedge accounting purposes — 0.2 0.8 1.4
Total derivative financial instruments — 0.3 3.7 19.6
All of the fair values shown in the table above have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets. Cash flows in respect of the 
cash flow hedges shown in the table above will all occur in 2013. All of the £0.3m (2011: £19.6m) of derivative liabilities reported in the 
table above will mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
(a)  Cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges in the table above include: floating to fixed interest rate swaps that are used to manage the interest rate profile of the 
Group’s borrowings (note 30.2); forward foreign currency contracts used to hedge the currency risk in forecast sales; and forward purchase 
contracts used to hedge the cash flow risk relating to future sales arising from fluctuation in commodity metals prices.
(b)  Fair value hedges
Fair value hedges in the table above comprise forward sales contracts used to hedge the fair value risk relating to the balance sheet value of 
inventory arising from fluctuation in commodity metals prices. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
132
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
22.  Derivative financial instruments (continued)
22.2  Analysis of derivative financial instruments (continued)
(c)  Net investment hedges
Net investment hedges in the table above, which matured during the year, comprised forward foreign exchange contracts used to provide a 
hedge against the foreign exchange risk associated with the Group’s investments in its foreign operations. Of the change in the fair value of 
these contracts in the year, £16.7m (2011: £10.7m) (which was associated with the change in spot prices) was determined to be an effective 
hedge and was recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within translation reserves (note 27) and £3.7m (2011: £4.0m) 
(which was associated with the change in forward prices) was credited to the Group income statement within finance income.
(d)  Derivatives not designated for hedge accounting purposes
Other derivatives in the table above that are not designated for hedge accounting purposes comprise forward foreign exchange contracts 
used to hedge the change in fair value of the Group’s US Private Placement Loan Notes arising from fluctuation in exchange rates and 
forward purchase contracts used to hedge against the cash flow risk relating to future commodity metals purchases. 
23.  Assets and liabilities held for sale
2012
£m
2011
£m
Property, plant and equipment 12.2 3.7
Intangible assets — 1.4
Inventories 9.2 8.8
Trade and other receivables 16.8 14.9
Deferred tax 1.7 —
Total assets held for sale 39.9 28.8
Trade and other payables (22.9) (4.6)
Provisions (0.6) (3.1)
Net assets held for sale 16.4 21.1
As at 31 December 2012, all European operations of the Group’s Precious Metals Processing division and a non-core business of the Group’s 
Steel division, were both in the process of being disposed and were classified as held for sale. The assets in the table above are stated after a 
write-down of £2.7m to bring their carrying value down to their fair value less cost to sell.
As at 31 December 2011, the US operations of the Group’s Precious Metals Processing division (“US Precious Metals”) and a non-core 
business of the Group’s Steel division, were both in the process of being disposed and were classified as held for sale. An agreement was 
signed on 22 February 2012 with Richline Group, Inc. (“Richline”) for Richline to acquire the whole of the Group’s interest in its US Precious 
Metals business and the transaction was completed on 1 May 2012. The prior year assets in the table above are stated after a write-down of 
£17.4m to bring their carrying value down to their estimated fair value less costs to sell. This write-down, together with a further £11.6m of 
redundancy and other costs incurred in preparing the business for sale, comprise the £29.0m loss on disposal referred to in note 24.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
133
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
24. Business disposals
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
Net consideration:
Net proceeds received 7.3 17.4 24.7
Proceeds receivable 1.6 0.3 1.9
Fair value of Alent plc — 862.4 862.4
Disposal costs payable (1.1) — (1.1)
Total net consideration 7.8 880.1 887.9
Assets and liabilities disposed of:
Property, plant and equipment 2.1 81.9 84.0
Attributable goodwill — 295.0 295.0
Investment in joint ventures and other investments — 13.6 13.6
Trade working capital 1.2 131.1 132.3
Cash and debt — (157.3) (157.3)
Provisions — (18.6) (18.6)
Employee benefits — (24.4) (24.4)
Tax — (39.3) (39.3)
Assets previously classified as held for sale 3.3 22.1 25.4
Liabilities previously classified as held for sale — (3.8) (3.8)
Recycled foreign exchange — 31.5 31.5
Net assets disposed of 6.6 331.8 338.4
Disposal provisions charged to the income statement 3.5 7.0 10.5
(Loss)/profit on disposal of operations (2.3) 541.3 539.0
Net cash received from disposals:
Net proceeds received 7.3 17.4 24.7
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of — (69.4) (69.4)
Disposal costs paid in relation to prior year’s disposals (0.1) (4.9) (5.0)
Disposal costs paid in relation to closure cost provisions (0.6) (0.3) (0.9)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of subsidiaries 6.6 (57.2) (50.6)
Recognition in the Group Statement of Cash Flows:
Disposal of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 6.1 (52.3) (46.2)
Within other investing outflows, including additional costs for prior year’s disposals 0.5 (4.9) (4.4)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of subsidiaries 6.6 (57.2) (50.6)
Further details of the loss on disposal of continuing operations is given in note 10.
The total net profit arising in respect of discontinued operations of £541.3m (2011: £34.9m loss) comprised a profit on the demerger of Alent 
of £555.4m, net of a loss arising on the sale of the US operations of the Precious Metals Processing division of £8.4m (2011: £29.0m), and 
other losses arising on the closure of non-core businesses and trailing costs related to prior year disposals of £5.7m (2011: £5.9m). 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
134
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
24. Business disposals (continued)
On 22 February 2012, an agreement was signed to sell the US Precious Metals business, part of Vesuvius’ Precious Metals Processing 
division, to Richline Group, Inc. (“Richline”), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.. Completion of the sale, subject to finalisation of the 
closing balance sheet valuation, took place on 1 May 2012. On 19 September 2012, an agreement was entered into with Richline which 
settled the valuation of the completion balance sheet, whereby Richline conceded their right to challenge the value of any assets or liabilities 
in the completion balance sheet. The proceeds for the sale of the business were $28.5m (£18.0m). As at 31 December 2011, the net assets 
of the US Precious Metals business were classified as held for sale in the balance sheet and a loss on disposal of operations of £29.0 million 
was reported in the income statement for 2011. The final loss on sale of the business amounted to £37.4m, resulting in an adjustment being 
booked in 2012 of £8.4m, of which £4.6m related to the recycled historical foreign exchange differences relating to the businesses sold. In 
view of the remainder of the Precious Metals Processing division being reported as held for sale as at 31 December 2012, the whole of the 
division has been classified as a discontinued operation, including the previously reported loss on disposal of the US business.
On 19 December 2012, the Company demerged the Alent business (formerly the Performance Materials division of Cookson Group plc), 
whereby the share capital of the Company was reduced, with £862.4m - representing the fair market value of Alent plc on 19 December 
2012 - being repaid, the repayment being satisfied by the transfer by the Company to Alent plc of the entire share capital of Alent 
Investments Limited, in consideration of the allotment and issue by Alent plc of one Alent plc share for each Vesuvius plc share held by the 
Vesuvius plc shareholders at the date of the demerger. The net assets of the Alent group of businesses as at the date of the demerger,  
19 December 2012, was £307.0m, resulting in a profit on disposal of £555.4m.
25. Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations in 2012 comprise the results of the Alent group of companies for the period up to 19 December 2012, when they 
were demerged from Vesuvius, together with the results of the US Precious Metals Processing business for the period up to 1 May 2012 
when it was sold and the European Precious Metals Processing business, which was held for sale as at 31 December 2012, for the whole of 
the year. Prior year comparatives in the Group income statement have been restated accordingly.
Further details, along with the effects of the disposals on the financial position of the Group, can be found in note 24.
25.1 Results of discontinued operations
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 888.0 1,140.6
Expenses (785.7) (1,035.5)
Profit before tax 102.3 105.1
Income tax costs (31.1) (22.7)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of discontinued operations 24 541.3 (34.9)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 612.5 47.5
Earnings per share — pence
Basic 220.8 17.2
Diluted 218.8 16.9
25.2 Cash flows from discontinued operations
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from:
— operating activities 22.5 73.1
— investing activities (80.7) (23.4)
— financing activities 0.4 —
Net cash (outflow)/inflow for the year (57.8) 49.7
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
135
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
26. Issued share capital
26.1 Accounting policy
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
26.2  Analysis of issued share capital
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2012 was 278.4m shares of £0.10 each. Further information relating to 
the Company’s share capital is given in note 7 attached to the Company’s financial statements.
27.  Other reserves
Other 
reserves
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Investment 
revaluation
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 January 2011 (1,488.6) (2.0) (0.2) 181.5 (1,309.3)
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — — — (44.0) (44.0)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — — — (3.3) (3.3)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — (0.2) — — (0.2)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — — 0.1 — 0.1
As at 1 January 2012 (1,488.6) (2.2) (0.1) 134.2 (1,356.7)
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — — — (79.1) (79.1)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations — — — 31.5 31.5
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — — — 14.0 14.0
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — 2.3 — — 2.3
Change in fair value of cash flow hedge transferred to profit for the year — (0.3) — — (0.3)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — — (0.3) — (0.3)
Issue of share capital (10.4) — — — (10.4)
As at 31 December 2012 (1,499.0) (0.2) (0.4) 100.6 (1,399.0)
On 14 December 2012, Vesuvius plc issued 278,448,752 ordinary shares of 638.5 pence each (£1,777.9m) to the public shareholders of 
Cookson Group plc in exchange for the entire share capital of Cookson Group plc. The other reserves as at 31 December 2012, represents  
the excess of the Vesuvius plc share capital of £1,777.9m over the total share capital and share premium of Cookson Group plc as at  
14 December 2012 of £278.9m.
The translation reserve in the table above comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent. These exchange 
differences arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that 
hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations. In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent, 
the Group statement of comprehensive income includes foreign exchange differences attributable to non-controlling interests. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
136
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
28.  Retained earnings
Reserve for 
own
 shares
£m
Share
option
reserve
£m
Other
retained
earnings
£m
Total
retained
earnings
£m
As at 1 January 2011 (2.5) 9.6 790.7 797.8
Profit for the year — — 146.8 146.8
Net actuarial gains on employee benefits plans — — 21.2 21.2
Purchase of own shares (7.8) — — (7.8)
Disposal of own shares 2.5 — (2.5) —
Recognition of share-based payments — 5.0 — 5.0
Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options — (4.6) 4.6 —
Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income — — (11.9) (11.9)
Dividends paid (note 29) — — (51.8) (51.8)
As at 1 January 2012 (7.8) 10.0 897.1 899.3
Profit for the year — — 594.2 594.2
Net actuarial losses on employee benefits plans — — (107.6) (107.6)
Purchase of own shares (19.8) — — (19.8)
Disposal of own shares 22.4 — (22.4) —
Recognition of share-based payments — 4.8 — 4.8
Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options — (9.3) 9.3 —
Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income — — 14.8 14.8
Dividends paid (note 29) — — (61.2) (61.2)
Court approved capital reduction — — 887.7 887.7
As at 31 December 2012 (5.2) 5.5 2,211.9 2,212.2
The reserve for own shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of £0.10 each of the Company and are held by Cookson 
Investments (Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP .
On 19 December 2012, Vesuvius plc undertook a court approved capital reduction, creating £887.7m of distributable reserves. Further 
information is given in note 7 of the Company’s financial statements.
29.  Dividends
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of £40.3m (2011: £31.8), equivalent to 14.5 pence (2011: 11.5 pence) per ordinary 
share, was paid in June 2012 and an interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of £20.9m (2011: £20.0m), equivalent to 7.5 
pence (2011: 7.25 pence) per ordinary share, was paid in October 2012.
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of £26.5m, equivalent to 9.5 pence per ordinary share, is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 27 June 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 17 May 2013. This is in 
line with the announcement at the time of the demerger process that, subject to general market conditions and trading performance, and 
consistent with the Cookson dividend policy immediately prior to the demerger, a final dividend for 2012 that aggregates to 15 pence per 
Cookson share would be proposed. The Vesuvius proposal to pay 9.5 pence per Vesuvius share complements the proposal by Alent plc to  
pay a final dividend for 2012 of 5.5 pence per Alent share.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
137
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
30.  Financial risk management
30.1 Accounting policy
(a) Non-derivative financial instruments 
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition they are 
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
(b) Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial 
position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i) Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the 
settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Group income statement; and
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Translation from functional currency to presentational currency
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency (pounds sterling), its results and financial 
position are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii)  Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such average rates does not 
approximate the exchange rate at the date of a specific transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and 
are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed.
Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are initially 
recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of 
the net investment.
30.2  Financial risk factors
The Group’s treasury department, acting in accordance with policies approved by the Board, is principally responsible for managing the 
financial risks faced by the Group. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most significant of which are market risk 
and liquidity risk.
(a)  Market risk
Market risk is the risk that either the fair values or the cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments may fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. The Group is principally exposed to market risk through fluctuations in exchange rates (“currency risk”) and interest rates 
(“interest rate risk”).
Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its borrowings and financial assets (being cash and short-term deposits) that are denominated in 
currencies other than pounds sterling. The Group’s general policy is proportionally to match the currency profile of its core borrowings with 
the currency profile of its earnings and net assets achieved, where necessary, by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts (“FX swaps”). 
The currency profile of the Group’s borrowings and financial assets, reflecting the effect of the FX swaps, is shown in the table below. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
138
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
30.  Financial risk management (continued)
30.2  Financial risk factors (continued)
2012 2011
Borrowings 
before
FX swaps
£m
FX swaps
£m
Borrowings
after
FX swaps
£m
Financial 
assets 
 £m
Net debt
 £m 
Borrowings
before
FX swaps
£m
FX swaps
£m
Borrowings
after
FX swaps
£m
Financial 
assets
£m
Net debt
£m
Sterling 176.4 51.1 227.5 (14.9) 212.6 151.3 100.6 251.9 (44.4) 207.5
United States dollar 156.8 (51.1) 105.7 (4.8) 100.9 287.0 (176.0) 111.0 (13.3) 97.7
Euro 91.8 — 91.8 (36.7) 55.1 111.8 — 111.8 (13.8) 98.0
Chinese renminbi — — — (20.8) (20.8) — — — (43.5) (43.5)
Japanese yen 0.8 — 0.8 (2.2) (1.4) 0.8 75.4 76.2 (2.4) 73.8
Other 4.2 — 4.2 (50.1) (45.9) 5.4 — 5.4 (70.7) (65.3)
Capitalised borrowing 
costs (5.2) — (5.2) — (5.2) (4.3) — (4.3) — (4.3)
As at 31 December 424.8 — 424.8 (129.5) 295.3 552.0 — 552.0 (188.1) 363.9
Based upon the currency profile shown in the table above, while not impacting reported profit, the change in net debt arising from a 10% 
strengthening of sterling would increase reported equity by £8.0m (2011: £14.6m) and a corresponding 10% weakening of sterling would 
reduce equity by £9.8m (2011: £17.8m). 
The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional 
currency and which could give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling
£m
US dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Renminbi
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Functional currency
Sterling — 5.0 (16.9) — 1.4 (10.5)
United States dollar — — 1.0 — (0.1) 0.9
Euro (0.6) 1.3 — — 0.3 1.0
Chinese renminbi — 3.7 (0.6) — — 3.1
Other (1.4) (2.8) 13.3 2.7 7.4 19.2
As at 31 December 2012 (2.0) 7.2 (3.2) 2.7 9.0 13.7
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling
£m
US dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Renminbi
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Functional currency
Sterling — 1.0 1.5 — 0.4 2.9
United States dollar 0.3 — 0.5 — 7.1 7.9
Euro (0.4) 1.1 — — 0.4 1.1
Chinese renminbi — 5.3 (0.9) — — 4.4
Other (1.3) 26.2 10.2 10.0 4.6 49.7
As at 31 December 2011 (1.4) 33.6 11.3 10.0 12.5 66.0
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
139
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
30.  Financial risk management (continued)
30.2  Financial risk factors (continued)
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk principally arises in relation to its borrowings. Where borrowings are held at floating rates of interest, 
fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to variability in the cash flows associated with its interest payments and where borrowings 
are held at fixed rates of interest, fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to changes in the fair value of its borrowings. The Group’s 
policy is to maintain a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings, within certain parameters agreed from time to time by the Board, in order to 
optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had $250.0m (£153.8m) of US Private Placement Loan Notes outstanding, which carry a fixed rate of 
interest, representing just over a third of the Group’s total borrowings outstanding at that date. The interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings 
and net debt is detailed in the tables below.
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings)
Financial
assets
£m
Net debt
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Floating
rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling — 176.4 176.4 (14.9) 161.5
United States dollar 153.8 3.0 156.8 (4.8) 152.0
Euro — 91.8 91.8 (36.7) 55.1
Chinese renminbi — — — (20.8) (20.8)
Japanese yen — 0.8 0.8 (2.2) (1.4)
Other — 4.2 4.2 (50.1) (45.9)
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.2) (4.0) (5.2) — (5.2)
As at 31 December 2012 152.6 272.2 424.8 (129.5) 295.3
Financial liabilities (gross borrowings)
Financial
assets
£m
Net debt
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Interest
rate swaps
£m
Notional
fixed rate
debt
£m
Floating
rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling — 74.0 74.0 77.3 151.3 (44.4) 106.9
United States dollar 283.7 — 283.7 3.3 287.0 (13.3) 273.7
Euro — — — 111.8 111.8 (13.8) 98.0
Chinese renminbi — — — — — (43.5) (43.5)
Japanese yen — — — 0.8 0.8 (2.4) (1.6)
Other — — — 5.4 5.4 (70.7) (65.3)
Capitalised borrowing costs (0.7) — (0.7) (3.6) (4.3) — (4.3)
As at 31 December 2011 283.0 74.0 357.0 195.0 552.0 (188.1) 363.9
The floating rate financial liabilities shown in the tables above bear interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus 
a margin. The fixed rate financial liabilities of £152.6m (2011: £357.0m) have a weighted average interest rate of 4.7% (2011: 5.4%) and 
a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 6.6 years (2011: 3.7 years). The financial assets attract floating rate interest at the 
inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.  21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
140
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
30. Financial risk management (continued)
30.2  Financial risk factors (continued)
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities shown in the tables above, a 1% increase in market interest 
rates would increase both the net finance costs charged in the Group income statement and the net interest paid in the Group statement of 
cash flows by £1.4m (2011: £0.1m) and a 1% reduction in market interest rates would decrease both the net finance costs charged in the 
Group income statement and the net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows by £1.4m (2011: £0.1m). Similarly, a 1% increase 
in market interest rates would result in a decrease of £9.2m (2011: £10.9m) in the fair value of the Group’s net debt and a 1% decrease in 
market interest rates would result in an increase of £9.8m (2011: £11.7m) in the fair value of the Group’s net debt.
(b)  Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might have difficulties in meeting its financial obligations. The Group manages this risk by ensuring that it 
maintains sufficient levels of committed borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents to ensure that it can meet its operational cash flow 
requirements and any maturing financial liabilities, while at all times operating within its financial covenants. The level of operational headroom 
provided by the Group’s committed borrowing facilities is reviewed at least annually as part of the Group’s three year planning process. Where this 
process indicates a need for additional finance, this is normally addressed 12 to 18 months in advance by means of either additional committed bank 
facilities or raising finance in the capital markets.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of £578.8m (2011: £883.7m), of which £157.7m (2011: £339.5m) were 
undrawn. These undrawn facilities are due to expire in April 2016. The Group’s borrowing requirements are met by US Private Placement Loan 
Notes (“USPP”) and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility of £425.0m (2011: £600.0m). The USPP facility was fully drawn as at 
31 December 2012 and amounted to £153.8m ($250.0m), of which $110.0m is repayable in 2017 and $140.0m in 2020. The syndicated bank 
facility was renegotiated at the time of the Cookson demerger and the Vesuvius facility was reduced to a £425.0m revolving credit facility from 
the £600.0m in place at December 2011. The facility is repayable in April 2016.
The maturity analysis of the Group’s gross borrowings is shown in the tables below.
Non-current Current Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Loans and overdrafts 421.3 421.8 4.9 130.4 426.2 552.2
Obligations under finance leases 2.3 2.6 1.5 1.5 3.8 4.1
Capitalised borrowing costs (3.3) (3.1) (1.9) (1.2) (5.2) (4.3)
Total interest-bearing borrowings 420.3 421.3 4.5 130.7 424.8 552.0
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest-bearing borrowings repayable
On demand or within one year 6.4 131.9
In the second year 1.2 1.4
In the third year 0.8 0.9
In the fourth year 267.6 0.4
In the fifth year 67.7 260.5
After five years 86.3 161.2
Capitalised borrowing costs (5.2) (4.3)
Total interest-bearing borrowings 424.8 552.0
Capitalised borrowing costs shown in the tables above, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial statements, 
amounted to £5.2m as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: £4.3m), of which £1.2m (2011: £0.7m) related to the USPP and £4.0m 
(2011: £3.6m) related to the syndicated bank facility.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
141
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
30. Financial risk management (continued)
30.3  Capital management
The Group considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity and net debt. It monitors its capital using a number of key 
performance indicators, including free cash flow, average working capital to sales ratios, net debt to EBITDA ratios and RONA (note 4). The 
Group’s objectives when managing its capital are:
❯ ❯ to ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns and ensure that the Group operates within the 
financial covenants contained within its debt facilities;
❯ ❯ to maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Group’s equity and net debt;
❯ ❯ to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future returns to 
investors; and
❯ ❯ to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group operated comfortably within the requirements of its debt covenants throughout the year and has substantial liquidity headroom 
within its committed debt facilities. Details of the Group’s covenant compliance and committed debt facilities can be found in the Financial 
Review on page 55. 
31.  Employee benefits
31.1  Accounting policy
The net surplus or net liability recognised in the Group balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash 
flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. 
Any asset recognised in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the sum of unrecognised past service costs plus the 
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised in the Group income statement as shown in note 31.7. Actuarial gains and 
losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans are reported within the Group statement of comprehensive income; and gains and 
losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the Group income statement in the same line as the item that gave rise to 
the settlement or curtailment or, if material, separately reported as a component of profit from operations.
31.2  Group post-retirement plans
The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined benefit and defined contribution type, and accounts for 
them in accordance with IAS19.
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US, the benefits of which are based upon the final pensionable 
salaries of plan members. The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds. The trustees are 
required to act in the best interests of the plans’ beneficiaries. The Group also has defined benefits pension plans in other territories but, with 
the exception of those in Germany, these are not individually material in relation to the Group as a whole.
(a)  Defined benefit pension plans — UK
The Group’s main defined benefit pension plan in the UK (“the UK Plan”) is closed to new members and to future benefit accrual.
Following the demerger of Cookson Group plc, the UK Plan remains with Vesuvius and the Alent employees who participated in the UK Plan 
ceased to participate with effect from the demerger. In order to ensure there was a “clean break” for Alent companies, the pension liabilities 
held in respect of their employees in the UK Plan were discharged in full by apportioning the pension liabilities of the Alent participating 
employers to Vesuvius, combined with a mitigation payment into the UK Plan to compensate for the loss of support from the Alent 
participating employers, which reduced the financial covenant of the employers supporting the UK Plan. The mitigation payment agreed with 
the UK Plan Trustee was equal to approximately 25% of the UK Plan’s Section 75 deficit calculated as at completion of the demerger and 
amounted to £38.0m, of which £34.0m was paid in December 2012 and £4.0m in January 2013. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
142
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
31.  Employee benefits (continued)
31.2  Group post-retirement plans (continued)
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the UK Plan Trustee and the last 
full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2009. At that date, the market value of plan assets was £401.9m and this represented a 
funding level of 88% of the accrued plan benefits at the time of £456.4m. Calculated on a “buy-out” basis (using an estimation of the cost 
of buying out the UK Plan benefits with an insurance company), the liabilities at that date were £589.0m, representing a funding level of 
68%. Under the rules of the UK Plan, the Trustee has the power to set the funding contributions, having consulted with the Company. The 
Company and Trustee have agreed a schedule of contributions under which the Company is making “top-up” payments of £7.0m  
per annum until February 2016, targeted at eliminating the 2009 full actuarial valuation deficit in the UK Plan by that date. The level of 
“top-up” payments will be reviewed based on the UK Plan’s next triennial valuation as at 31 December 2012, which should be available in 
mid-2013. The Directors expect that the valuation will show further improvement to the funding position of the UK Plan. As at 31 December 
2012, the funding ratio calculated on an IAS19 basis was 105%, (i.e. a funding surplus). 
During 2011, the deferred members of the UK Plan were offered the opportunity to transfer their benefits out of the UK Plan to another 
arrangement of their choice at an enhanced value. The offer of enhanced transfer values closed during the first half of 2012. In total some 
550 members took up the offer and this has eliminated the inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk for Vesuvius in respect of the 
£50m of liabilities transferred out of the UK Plan (representing around 10% of total UK Plan liabilities). The impact on the IAS19 valuation 
of UK pension liabilities of the transfers agreed up to 31 December 2011, were reflected in the results for 2011 as an exceptional charge of 
£5.9m. The impact of transfers agreed after 1 January 2012 was a charge of £0.5m and, not being material, has been reported in 2012 in 
arriving at trading profit. 
On 19 July 2012, the UK Plan Trustee announced that it had entered into a pension insurance buy-in agreement with Pension Insurance 
Corporation (“PIC”) to insure approximately 60% of the UK Plan’s total liabilities. Under this arrangement, the UK Plan Trustee paid an 
insurance premium of £318.8m to PIC, wholly from the assets of the UK Plan, which will secure a stream of income exactly matching future 
ongoing pension payments. The insured liabilities cover the UK Plan’s pensioner members as at 30 June 2012, who comprise some 3,350 
members out of a total UK Plan membership of 5,900. This arrangement eliminates the inflation, interest rate, investment and longevity risk 
for Vesuvius in respect of these liabilities. 
For plan funding purposes, the UK Plan’s pensioner liabilities are valued using more prudent assumptions than those required under IAS19 
for accounting purposes. On a funding basis — sometimes called the ‘economic’ or ‘ongoing’ basis — the insurance premium paid to PIC 
represented some £10m less than the amount reserved in the UK Plan against these liabilities. This means that the funding level of the UK 
Plan — the measure which determines the level of additional contributions required to be made by Vesuvius — improved by some £10m as 
a result of the buy-in. On an accounting basis, the pensioner liabilities are valued using a higher discount rate (as required by IAS19), which 
produces a much lower valuation of those liabilities. As a consequence, the accounting valuation of the insurance contract compared with 
the actual premium paid to PIC results in a reduction in the asset portfolio valuation of some £50m. IAS19 requires this loss to be reported 
in the Group statement of comprehensive income, not the income statement. Post buy-in, the UK Plan now carries an asset in the form of 
the insurance contract, which is valued (in both the funding and IAS19 valuations) at an amount which matches exactly that of the liabilities 
which it covers — thereby removing any funding or balance sheet volatility relating to this part of the UK Plan’s liabilities. Therefore, the only 
risks remaining in the UK Plan relate to deferred members. The Group continues to fund the UK Plan on the basis of the funding valuation.
In December 2012, an extension to the PIC buy-in agreement was signed, under which the UK Plan Trustee agrees to transfer to PIC all new 
pensioner liabilities arising from July 2012 to December 2015 for a premium payment by the UK Plan which is calculated to be consistent 
with the pricing terms of the original buy-in agreement, but reflecting changes in market conditions and differences in the duration of the 
liabilities transferred. The agreement covers up to £30m of liabilities, with the future premium payments to be met from the existing assets of 
the UK Plan.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
143
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
31.  Employee benefits (continued)
31.2  Group post-retirement plans (continued)
(b)  Defined benefit pension plans — US
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans in the US, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit. The 
Group’s principal US defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members and also to future benefit accrual for existing members. Actuarial 
valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2011. 
At that date the market value of the plan assets was £81.3m, representing a funding level of 71% of funded accrued plan benefits at that date 
(using the projected unit method of valuation) of £114.5m. Funding levels for the Group’s US defined benefit pension plans are normally based 
upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by US government regulations. 
Following an offer to Vesuvius’ US deferred members which closed in August 2012, 1,070 members (67%) accepted a lump sum payment 
in full and final settlement of the Group’s pension liability to them. This has therefore eliminated the inflation, interest rate, investment and 
longevity risk for Vesuvius in respect of the $36m (£22m) of liabilities involved, for a payment out of the pension plan assets of $28m (£17m). 
(c)  Defined benefit pension plans — Germany
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension arrangements in Germany which are unfunded, as is common practice in that country. 
(d)  Defined contribution pension plans
The total expense for the Group’s defined contribution plans in the Group income statement amounted to £17.0m (2011: £17.7m) and 
represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
31.3  Post-retirement liability valuation
The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans, as detailed below, are set by the 
Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
(a)  Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Group’s UK, US and German defined benefit pension liabilities are summarised in 
the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans. 
For the UK Plan, the assumptions used have been derived from the Self-Administered Pension Schemes (“SAPS”) All table, with future longevity 
improvements in line with the “core” mortality improvement tables published in 2011 by the Continuous Mortality Investigation (“CMI”), with a 
long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum. The latter CMI tables are expected to replace the use of the “Cohort” improvement factors 
widely used since 2002. For the Group’s US plans, the assumptions used have been based on the standard RP2000CH mortality tables, projected 
64 years for non-pensioners and 33 years for pensioners using projection scale AA. The Group’s major plans in Germany have been valued using 
the Heubeck-Richttafein 2005G mortality tables. 
2012 2011
Life expectancy of pension plan members
UK
years
US
years
Germany
years
 UK
 years
US
years
Germany
years
Age to which current pensioners are expected to live — Men 87.5 84.6 84.6 87.3 84.6 84.4
  — Women 89.7 86.9 88.7 89.6 86.9 88.5
Age to which future pensioners are expected to live — Men 89.2 86.6 87.3 89.1 86.6 87.1
  — Women 91.6 89.1 91.2 91.5 89.1 91.1 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
144
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
31.  Employee benefits (continued)
31.3  Post-retirement liability valuation (continued)
(b)  Other principal actuarial valuation assumptions
2012 2011
UK
% p.a.
US
% p.a.
Germany
% p.a.
UK
% p.a.
US
% p.a.
Germany
% p.a.
Discount rate 4.35 3.75 3.30 4.80 4.25 4.50
Price inflation — using RPI for UK 3.20 2.50 2.00 3.30 2.50 2.00
 — using CPI for UK 2.50 n/a n/a 2.40 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n/a n/a 2.75 n/a n/a 2.75
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.00 n/a 1.90 3.10 n/a 1.90
Expected asset return — equities 7.75 7.50 n/a 7.75 7.80 n/a
 — bonds/swaps 3.00 3.75 n/a 3.40 4.00 n/a
 — insured annuities 4.05 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the UK Plan for IAS19 accounting purposes is required to be determined by reference to 
market yields on high quality corporate bonds. The UK discount rate in the above table is based on the Aon Hewitt AA-rated corporate bond yield 
in conjunction with the most recent projected cash flow data relating to the UK Plan liabilities; the US discount rate is based on the Citigroup 
pension discount curve; and the German discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 10 year euro corporates AA index. 
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and 
index-linked bonds, except for CPI, for which no appropriate bonds exist, which is assumed to be 0.7pts lower than RPI-based inflation.
The expected asset return is the Company’s expectation at the valuation date of long-term asset returns: based on the “risk-free” yield 
available by following a buy-and-hold investment strategy in government bonds; with returns for other bonds and equities estimated based 
on observed historic long-term strategic risk premia. These assumptions do not take account of the relative valuation of markets or of market 
momentum. 
(c) Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS19 actuarial assumptions
The following table analyses, for the Group’s main UK, US and German pension plans, the theoretical estimated impact on plan liabilities 
resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions used for IAS19 valuation purposes, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
As stated above, during 2012 the UK Plan entered into a pension insurance buy-in agreement which eliminates the inflation, interest rate, 
investment and longevity risk in respect of the pensioner liabilities covered by the agreement. Therefore, for the liabilities covered by this buy-
in agreement, which represent some 60% of the total liabilities of the UK Plan, any changes in the valuation assumptions which impact the 
value of those liabilities, also impacts on the associated annuity assets in an equal and opposite way, thereby fully mitigating the valuation 
risk. This is also reflected in the following table.
Impact on plan liabilities
Assumption Change in assumption UK US Germany
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1%
— impact on plan liabilities Decrease/increase by 1.5% Decrease/increase by 1.3% Decrease/increase by 1.7%
— impact on plan assets Decrease/increase by 1.1% n/a n/a
Price inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1%
— impact on plan liabilities Increase/decrease by 1.2% n/a Increase/decrease by 0.7%
— impact on plan assets Increase/decrease by 0.9% n/a n/a
Mortality Increase by one year
— impact on plan liabilities Increase/decrease by 4.0% Increase by 3.8% Increase by 3.1%
— impact on plan assets Increase/decrease by 4.9% n/a n/a
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
145
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
31. Employee benefits (continued) 
31.4  Defined benefit obligation
The liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans for IAS19 accounting purposes are measured by 
discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method, in which the calculation 
of plan liabilities makes allowance, where appropriate, for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
The average duration of the obligations to which the liabilities of the Group’s principal pension plans relate is 17 years for the UK and 
Germany and 13 years for the US. 
Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit pension plans 
UK
£m
US
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Present value as at 1 January 2012 422.7 188.9 35.3 42.6 689.5 8.9 698.4
Exchange differences — (8.1) (1.0) (1.7) (10.8) (0.3) (11.1)
Current service cost 0.3 0.4 0.8 2.2 3.7 0.6 4.3
Interest cost 19.7 7.4 1.5 1.5 30.1 0.3 30.4
Transferred to payables (2.4) — — — (2.4) — (2.4)
Transferred to held for sale — — (4.5) — (4.5) — (4.5)
Business disposals — (55.9) (4.3) (3.7) (63.9) (1.6) (65.5)
Settlements (15.7) (31.4) — (3.9) (51.0) — (51.0)
Actuarial losses 41.8 12.7 6.7 5.8 67.0 0.6 67.6
Contributions from members — — — 0.1 0.1 — 0.1
Benefits paid (20.1) (9.4) (1.5) (2.6) (33.6) (1.2) (34.8)
Present value as at 31 December 2012 446.3 104.6 33.0 40.3 624.2 7.3 631.5
Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined benefit pension plans 
UK
£m
US
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Present value as at 1 January 2011 439.7 167.3 35.0 52.5 694.5 9.7 704.2
Exchange differences — 1.6 (1.0) (0.8) (0.2) (0.9) (1.1)
Current service cost — 0.3 0.8 3.0 4.1 0.6 4.7
Interest cost 22.1 8.2 1.6 2.1 34.0 0.3 34.3
Settlements (56.4) — — (14.5) (70.9) — (70.9)
Actuarial losses 34.3 19.6 0.5 2.2 56.6 0.3 56.9
Contributions from members — — — 0.1 0.1 — 0.1
Benefits paid (17.0) (8.1) (1.6) (2.0) (28.7) (1.1) (29.8)
Present value as at 31 December 2011 422.7 188.9 35.3 42.6 689.5 8.9 698.4 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
146
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
31. Employee benefits (continued) 
31.5  Fair value of plan assets
2012 2011
UK
£m
US
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
UK
£m
US
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 January 487.5 124.1 28.1 639.7 443.2 109.4 37.8 590.4
Exchange differences — (5.4) (1.4) (6.8) — 1.0 0.2 1.2
Expected return 21.6 6.5 1.0 29.1 23.7 6.7 1.6 32.0
Business disposals — (39.1) (2.0) (41.1) — — — —
Settlements (16.2) (24.2) (4.3) (44.7) (43.2) — (12.5) (55.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (45.5) 4.6 0.9 (40.0) 73.6 5.0 (0.5) 78.1
Contributions from: 
 — employer 41.0 11.3 4.2 56.5 7.0 9.2 3.3 19.5
 — members — — 0.1 0.1 — — 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (20.0) (8.4) (1.7) (30.1) (16.8) (7.2) (1.9) (25.9)
As at 31 December 468.4 69.4 24.9 562.7 487.5 124.1 28.1 639.7
The Group’s pension plans in Germany are unfunded, as is common practice in that country, and accordingly there are no assets associated 
with these plans. In addition to the assets reported above, £3.7m (2011: £4.1m) of assets were held as at 31 December 2012 to fund certain 
non-qualified US pension plan obligations. These assets are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors 
in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held and are reported as investments in the Group balance sheet. The 
actual return on all Group pension plan assets was a loss of £10.9m (2011: £110.1m). 
31.6  Balance sheet recognition
The amount recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit 
plans is analysed in the following tables, which all relate to continuing operations.
Defined benefit pension plans 
Other post-
retirement 
benefit
plans
£m
2012
Total
£m
UK
£m
US
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Equities 85.6 26.0 — 1.8 113.4 — 113.4
Bonds — 42.0 — 1.5 43.5 — 43.5
Risk-mitigation derivatives (13.0) — — — (13.0) — (13.0)
Insurance contracts 273.3 — 18.5 291.8 — 291.8
Other assets 122.5 1.4 — 3.1 127.0 — 127.0
Fair value of plan assets 468.4 69.4 — 24.9 562.7 — 562.7
Present value of funded obligations (445.1) (93.7) — (38.3) (577.1) — (577.1)
23.3 (24.3) — (13.4) (14.4) — (14.4)
Present value of unfunded obligations (1.2) (10.9) (33.0) (2.0) (47.1) (7.3) (54.4)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 22.1 (35.2) (33.0) (15.4) (61.5) (7.3) (68.8)
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Net surpluses 23.3 — — — 23.3 — 23.3
Net liabilities (1.2) (35.2) (33.0) (15.4) (84.8) (7.3) (92.1)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 22.1 (35.2) (33.0) (15.4) (61.5) (7.3) (68.8)
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
147
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
31.  Employee benefits (continued)
31.6  Balance sheet recognition (continued)
Defined benefit pension plans 
Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
2011
Total
£m
UK
£m
US
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Equities 84.6 23.0 — 3.3 110.9 — 110.9
Bonds 237.1 80.6 — 9.6 327.3 — 327.3
Risk-mitigation derivatives 78.4 — — — 78.4 — 78.4
Other assets 87.4 20.5 — 15.2 123.1 — 123.1
Fair value of plan assets 487.5 124.1 — 28.1 639.7 — 639.7
Present value of funded obligations (421.9) (173.4) — (40.1) (635.4) — (635.4)
65.6 (49.3) — (12.0) 4.3 — 4.3
Present value of unfunded obligations (0.8) (15.5) (35.3) (2.5) (54.1) (8.9) (63.0)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 64.8 (64.8) (35.3) (14.5) (49.8) (8.9) (58.7)
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Net surpluses 65.6 — — — 65.6 — 65.6
Net liabilities (0.8) (64.8) (35.3) (14.5) (115.4) (8.9) (124.3)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 64.8 (64.8) (35.3) (14.5) (49.8) (8.9) (58.7)
(a)  UK Plan asset allocation
As at 31 December 2012 of the UK Plan’s total assets, excluding risk-mitigation derivatives, 57% were represented by the bulk annuity 
insurance contracts covering the Plan’s pension liabilities; 18% were allocated to equities; 8% to infrastructure investments; 8% to cash; and 
9% to other assets. In addition, the UK Plan holds a liability driven investment portfolio of financial derivative contracts which reduces the 
risk that the UK Plan’s assets would fall materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities. 
(b)  Defined benefit contributions in 2013
In 2013, the Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits plans of 
around £18m.
31.7  Income statement recognition
The expense recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement 
benefit plans is shown below.
2012 2011
Defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
Other
post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
Other
post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Current service cost 3.8 0.6 4.4 4.1 0.6 4.7
Interest on obligation 30.1 0.3 30.4 34.0 0.3 34.3
Expected return on plan assets (29.1) — (29.1) (32.0) — (32.0)
Gains relating to employee benefits plans (6.3) — (6.3) (15.2) — (15.2)
Total net (credit)/charge (1.5) 0.9 (0.6) (9.1) 0.9 (8.2) 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
148
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
31.  Employee benefits (continued)
31.7  Income statement recognition (continued)
The total net credit of £0.6m (2011: £8.2m) recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
plans and other post-retirement benefits plans is recognised in the following lines:
2012
£m
2011
£m
In arriving at trading profit
— within other manufacturing costs 1.8 1.8
— within administration, selling and distribution costs 1.4 2.3
In arriving at profit from operations
— restructuring charges 0.1 —
— gains relating to employee benefits plans — (13.2)
In arriving at profit before tax
— within ordinary finance costs 27.5 30.7
— within finance income (26.9) (29.0)
Continuing operations — charge/(credit) 3.9 (7.4)
Discontinued operations (4.5) (0.8)
Total net credit (0.6) (8.2)
The net gain relating to employee benefits plans of £13.2m in 2011 represents: (i) a £21.5m reduction in liabilities of the UK Plan arising 
from the use of the Consumer Price Index instead of the Retail Prices Index to value deferred pension benefits and (ii) the impact in 2011 on 
the UK Plan of £8.3m relating to the enhanced value exercise.
Administration costs charged within ordinary finance costs in 2012 were £1.6m. In accordance with IAS19 (Revised), which takes effect 
from 1 January 2013, these costs would have instead been charged within trading profit and the net finance charge relating to the Group’s 
post-retirement benefit plans would have been increased by £1.2m, resulting in an overall reduction of the net finance charge by £0.4m. The 
implementation of the revised standard is expected to increase the net finance charge for pensions in 2013 by some £2m.
31.8  Historical information
The history of the fair value of the Group’s plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the net deficit in the plans and the 
experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below.
Defined benefit plans
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Fair value of plan assets 562.7 639.7 590.4 531.9 526.4
Present value of defined benefit obligations (631.5) (698.4) (704.2) (669.6) (621.7)
Net plan deficit (68.8) (58.7) (113.8) (137.7) (95.3)
Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities (16.6) (7.4) 9.1 3.8 6.8
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (40.0) 78.1 30.8 3.9 (15.6)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income is £173.5m (2011: £64.7m).
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
149
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
32.  Share-based payments
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the disclosures in this note are only in respect of those options granted after 7 November 
2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. 
32.1  Income statement recognition
The total expense recognised in the Group income statement is shown below. 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Long-Term Incentive Plan 3.7 4.9
Other plans 0.6 0.3
Total expense 4.3 5.2
The Group operates a number of different share-based payment plans, the most significant of which is the Long-Term Incentive Plan (“L TIP”), details of 
which can be found on pages 78 to 91 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Details of the Group’s other share-based payment plans, none of which are 
significant in the context of the Group’s results or financial position, can be found on page 81 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
32.2 Details of outstanding options
Outstanding awards
As at
1 January
2012
no.
Granted
no.
Exercised
no.
Forfeited/
lapsed
no.
Demerger 
adjustment
no.
Business 
disposals
no.
As at 
31 December 
2012
no.
LTIP 6,633,906 806,811 (4,680,111) (263,060) 2,618,579 (2,540,763) 2,575,362
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil n/a nil nil
Other plans 464,190 125,118 (225,761) (32,706) 330,340 (370,645) 290,536
Weighted average exercise price 175p nil 241p 283p n/a nil 51p
For options exercised during 2012, the share price at the date of exercise was 705.0p.
Outstanding awards
As at
1 January
2011
no.
Granted
no.
Exercised
no.
F orfeited/  
lapsed
no.
As at 
31 December 
2011
no.
LTIP 6,220,626 1,057,632 (296,443) (347,909) 6,633,906
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil
Other plans 370,455 118,406 (20,601) (4,070) 464,190
Weighted average exercise price 227p nil 144p nil 175p
For all the options exercised during 2011, the share price at the date of exercise was 689.5p.
  
2012 2011
Awards 
exercisable 
as at
 31 December 
2012
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of awards 
years
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
Awards 
exercisable
 as at
 31 December 
2011
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of awards 
years
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
LTIP — 1.9 — 0.8
Weighted average exercise price — n/a — n/a
Other plans 59,179 1.2 186,386 1.3
Weighted average exercise price 288p nil–288p 436p nil–542p 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
150
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
32.  Share-based payments (continued)
32.3 Options granted under the LTIP during the year
2012 2011
EPS
element
TSR
element 
EPS
element
TSR
element
Fair value of options granted (per share) 648p 488p 646p 494p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 710p 710p 705p 705p
Expected volatility n/a 47.0% n/a 59.2%
Risk-free interest rate n/a 0.6% n/a 1.4%
Exercise price (per share) nil nil nil nil
Expected term (years) 4 4 4 4
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0%
Share price volatility for options granted in 2012 and 2011 is based upon weekly movements in the Company’s (formerly Cookson’s) share 
price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award. 
33.  Trade and other payables
33.1  Accounting policy
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
33.2 Analysis of trade and other payables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current
Accruals and other payables 14.1 18.7
Deferred purchase consideration 0.1 0.5
Total non-current other payables 14.2 19.2
Current
Trade payables 126.6 225.2
Other taxes and social security 37.8 45.3
Accruals and other payables 69.8 138.0
Deferred purchase consideration — 0.9
Total current trade and other payables 234.2 409.4
There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other payables balances and the amount at which they are 
reported in the Group balance sheet.
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
151
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
34. Leases
34.1  Accounting policy
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread 
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
34.2  Operating lease commitments
2012
£m
2011
£m
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable
as follows:
Not later than one year 9.5 17.1 
Later than one year and not later than five years 18.8 41.4 
Later than five years 10.1 44.7 
Total operating lease commitments 38.4 103.2 
The Group’s property, plant and equipment assets are either purchased outright or held under lease contracts. Where the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group, the asset is capitalised in the Group balance sheet 
and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance lease obligation. Where all the risks and rewards of ownership are 
not transferred to the Group, the lease is classified as an operating lease and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the lessor 
is recognised in the Group balance sheet. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment assets held under finance lease 
contracts at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 was not material.
The cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged within trading profit, 
amounted to £24.2m (2011: £25.6m).
35. Provisions
35.1  Accounting policy
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation 
at the balance sheet date. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
35.2 Analysis of provisions
 Disposal 
and 
closure 
costs
£m
Restructuring
charges
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 January 2012 38.1 31.5 11.0 80.6
Exchange adjustments (2.1) (1.7) (0.1) (3.9)
Charge to Group income statement 14.3 20.5 5.8 40.6
Unwind of discount 1.1 0.7 — 1.8
Cash spend (6.2) (31.9) (1.2) (39.3)
Transferred to liabilities classified as held for sale (note 23) (0.1) (0.5) — (0.6)
Transferred from other payables 0.7 — — 0.7
Transfers (0.3) 0.8 (0.5) —
Demerger of Alent plc business (note 24) (15.4) (2.3) (0.9) (18.6)
As at 31 December 2012 30.1 17.1 14.1 61.3 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
152
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Notes to the consolidated
financial statements continued
35. Provisions (continued)
35.2 Analysis of provisions (continued)
Of the total provision balance as at 31 December 2012 of £61.3m (2011: £80.6m), £31.8m (2011: £55.7m) is recognised in the Group 
balance sheet within non-current liabilities and £29.5m (2011: £24.9m) within current liabilities.
The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors’ current best estimate of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of 
obligations incurred in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the 
demolition and clean-up of closed sites. The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from 
legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability. As the settlement of many 
of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash outflows is 
subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying 
estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters. 
The provision for restructuring charges includes the costs of all of the Group’s initiatives to rationalise its operating activities. The balance of 
£17.1m as at 31 December 2012 comprises £5.6m in relation to onerous lease provisions in respect of leases terminating between one and 
ten years, and £11.5m in relation to future expenditure on restructuring initiatives which is expected to be paid out over the next two years.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, 
or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory 
process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of amounts provided are expected to be 
utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to 
individual matters. 
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group balance sheet only when its 
realisation is virtually certain. As at 31 December 2012, £10.2m (2011: £8.3m) was recorded in receivables in respect of associated insurance 
reimbursements, of which £7.9m (2011: £6.3m) is non-current. The amounts reported in the table above as charged to the Group income 
statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge reported as a movement on provisions. Other components of the 
charge, such as asset write-offs, are reported as a reduction in the carrying value of the relevant balance sheet item.
36. Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired
During the year, the Group acquired interests in subsidiaries for a total consideration of £32.3m, of which £29.5m was paid in cash and £2.8m is 
contingent upon future performance, £0.8m of which was paid in the current period. The fair value of net assets acquired was £18.3m (of which 
£4.6m was cash). Goodwill arising on these acquisitions amounted to £14.0m (note 18). The £26.1m disclosed in the Group statement of cash 
flows in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, comprised: £29.5m paid for current year acquisitions, £0.4m of deferred 
consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions, £0.8m of deferred consideration paid in respect of current year acquisitions less £4.6m of 
cash acquired with current year acquisitions.
37.  Off-balance sheet arrangements
In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course of business are not 
reported in the Group balance sheet. Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors include: inventory held either under 
precious metal consignment arrangements or on behalf of customers for processing (note 21); future lease payments in relation to assets 
used by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases (note 34); and trade receivable balances that have been subject to non-recourse 
factoring arrangements.
Under its non-recourse factoring arrangements, the Group sells trade receivables balances to a third-party factoring company in exchange for 
a cash payment from the factoring company, net of fees. All the risks and rewards of the trade receivables subject to these arrangements are 
transferred to the factoring company and, accordingly, the trade receivables are derecognised in the Group balance sheet. Such arrangements 
are used from time to time by the Group to manage the recovery of cash from its trade receivables. As at 31 December 2012, the Group balance 
sheet included £18.6m (2011: £41.7m) of cash that would otherwise have been reported as trade receivables if these arrangements were not 
in place. Factoring fees incurred during the year ended 31 December 2012, which are written off to the Group income statement within ordinary 
finance costs, amounted to £0.5m (2011: £1.8m). 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
153
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
38.  Contingent liabilities
Guarantees given by the Group under property leases of operations disposed of amounted to £3.4m (2011: £4.1m). Details of guarantees 
given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 11 to the Company financial statements.
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation 
and environmental matters. Several of Vesuvius’ subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in 
the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and the Directors are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the 
subject of dispute with tax authorities. Reserves are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting 
both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which reserve is 
made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty.
Certain of Vesuvius’ subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, predominantly in the US, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos 
manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by Vesuvius. These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers. To 
date, Vesuvius is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries. A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, 
dismissed or settled and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a material adverse effect on Vesuvius’ 
financial position or results of operations.
Cookson Precious Metals Ltd, a subsidiary of Vesuvius, was engaged in transactions involving the purchase of scrap platinum between August 
2007 and October 2009. Vesuvius has been informed by HMRC that, in HMRC’s view, certain external third-parties within the supply chain for 
those transactions deliberately failed to account to HMRC for VAT. Such fraud is commonly known as Missing Trader Intra-Community Fraud. 
As a consequence of any fraudulent actions of those third-parties, HMRC may argue that the ability of Vesuvius to retain VAT recovered on 
the relevant transactions should be limited. HMRC’s investigations are ongoing and the Vesuvius subsidiary has to date been notified of VAT 
loss in the supply chain relating to the trades in the relevant period of approximately £11m. The VAT relating to these trades has been repaid 
to Vesuvius pending completion of that investigation. Should the tax authorities seek to reclaim any part of this amount then, in the light of 
legal advice received by Vesuvius, the Directors intend to pursue the remedies available to Vesuvius to retain the VAT payment. If Vesuvius 
were to fail to retain the entirety of such VAT, this loss, along with any interest and penalties (which theoretically could be up to 100% but 
which, in practice, are expected to be significantly less), could have a material adverse effect on Vesuvius’ financial position or profitability.
Certain subsidiary companies of Vesuvius plc and Alent plc are defendants in two actions, brought by MacDermid (incorporated in the United 
States), which are pending in the Connecticut Superior Court and arising out of corporate activity involving the parties in the autumn of 
2006. The first action was commenced in 2009 and the second action was commenced in August 2012. MacDermid claims damages of 
approximately $62m, plus punitive or exemplary damages, costs and interest which are currently unquantifiable. Both Vesuvius and Alent 
believe these claims have no merit and are vigorously defending these actions. Each of Vesuvius and Alent anticipate filing motions for 
summary judgement in both cases by mid-2013 and, if any claims remain pending decisions on those motions, a trial in the first action is 
anticipated in the second half of 2013 or early 2014. Any liability relating to the MacDermid claim arising following the demerger of Cookson 
Group will be split equally between Alent plc and Vesuvius plc.
39.  Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Vesuvius plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 5 to 
the Company financial statements.
40.  Related parties
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business terms. Transactions 
between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. 
41.  Events after the balance sheet date
On 27 March 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement with Heimerle + Meule GmbH, a subsidiary of L. Possehl & 
Co, mbH (“Possehl”)to sell the European Precious Metals Processing business for a consideration of €56.8m. The cash consideration will be 
subject to closing balance sheet adjustments. Completion, which is expected by the end of the first half of 2013, will be subject to conditions 
including approval by the European Commission and by the Supervisory Board of Possehl. As at 31 December 2012, the net assets of the 
European Precious Metals Processing business of £19.4m were classified as held for sale in the Group balance sheet (note 23). 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
154
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Company balance sheet
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2012
Notes
2012
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 5 1,777.9
Total fixed assets 1,777.9
Current assets
Debtors - amounts falling due within one year 0.1
Cash at bank and in hand 1.5
Total current assets 1.6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 6 (863.5)
Net current liabilities (861.9)
Total assets less current liabilities 916.0
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Other creditors 6 (0.1)
Net assets  915.9
Equity capital and reserves
Issued share capital 7 27.8
Retained earnings 8 888.1
Shareholders’ funds — equity 915.9
The Company financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 March 2013 and signed on their behalf by:
FRANÇOIS WANECQ, Chief Executive CHRIS O’SHEA, Chief Financial Officer 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
155
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Notes to the Company
financial statements
1.  Basis of preparation
1.1  Basis of accounting
Vesuvius plc (“the Company”) (formerly Vesuvius Technologies plc) was incorporated on 17 September 2012 and is registered in England and 
Wales. These financial statements represent the period from the date of incorporation to 31 December 2012 and therefore no comparatives 
are presented.
The financial statements of Vesuvius plc are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and under the historical cost convention 
and in accordance with UK GAAP . The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account, as permitted by Section 408(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006.
1.2  Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and 
the Company.
2.  Employee benefits expense
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 92. The Directors’ remuneration 
during the period was borne by other Group companies.
3.  Audit and non-audit fees
Amounts payable to KPMG LLP in relation to audit and non-audit fees are disclosed within note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4.  Dividends
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of £26.5m, equivalent to 9.5p per ordinary share, is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If approved 
by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 27 June 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 17 May 2013. This is in line with the 
announcement at the time of the demerger process that, subject to general market conditions and trading performance, and consistent with 
the Cookson dividend policy immediately prior to the demerger, that a final dividend for 2012 that aggregates to 15p per Cookson share 
would be proposed. The Vesuvius proposal to pay 9.5p per Vesuvius share complements the proposal by Alent plc to pay a final dividend for 
2012 of 5.5p per Alent share.
5.  Investment in subsidiaries
5.1 Accounting policy 
Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment in value.
5.2 Analysis of investment in subsidiaries
Shares in
subsidiaries
£m
At incorporation on17 September 2012 —
Additions 2,640.3
Disposals (862.4)
As at 31 December 2012 1,777.9 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
156
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
5.  Investment in subsidiaries (continued)
5.2 Analysis of investment in subsidiaries (continued)
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Vesuvius plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are as follows:
Angang Vesuvius Refractory Company Ltd, China (50%) Foseco Ltd, England and Wales
Cookson America, Inc., USA Vesuvius Advanced Ceramics (Suzhou) Co. Ltd, China
Cookson Australia Pty Ltd, Australia Vesuvius Corporation SA, Switzerland
Cookson Ceramics Ltd, England and Wales Vesuvius Crucible Company, USA
Cookson Group Ltd, England and Wales* Vesuvius GmbH, Germany
Cookson Investments Ltd, England and Wales Vesuvius USA Corporation, USA
Cookson Overseas Ltd, England and Wales Wilkes-Lucas Ltd, England and Wales
Foseco International Ltd, England and Wales Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Advanced Ceramics Co. Ltd, China (50%)
Foseco (Jersey) Ltd, Jersey Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Advanced CCR Co. Ltd, China (50%)
With the exception of the company marked with an asterisk (*), the ordinary capital of the above companies was owned by a Vesuvius plc 
subsidiary as at 31 December 2012. All of the above companies are wholly owned, unless otherwise stated. A full list of Group companies 
will be included in the Company’s Annual Return to the Registrar of Companies.
All of the above companies have the same year-end as Vesuvius plc and all subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Company.
6.  Other creditors
2012
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 862.4
Accruals and other creditors 1.1
Redeemable preference shares 0.1
Total other creditors 863.6
Less: amounts falling due in more than one year — redeemable preference shares (0.1)
Total amounts falling due within one year 863.5
7.  Issued share capital
7.1 Accounting policy
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
7.2  Analysis of issued share capital
On incorporation, the Company’s share capital consisted of one ordinary share with a par value of £1 (“the subscriber share”).
On 18 September 2012, the Company issued 50,000 redeemable non-voting preference shares of £1 each. The preference shares were 
allotted for cash and remain unpaid by virtue of the holder giving an undertaking to pay up each share pursuant to section 583(2) and 
583(3) of the Companies Act 2006.
On 14 December 2012, the Company issued 278,448,752 ordinary shares of 638.5 pence each (£1,777.9m) to the public shareholders of 
Cookson Group plc in exchange for the entire share capital of Cookson Group plc as part of the Scheme of Arrangement. On the same date, 
the subscriber share was converted into and redesignated as a deferred share of £1.
Notes to the Company
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
157
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
7.  Issued share capital (continued)
7.2  Analysis of issued share capital (continued)
On 19 December 2012, the Company demerged the Alent business (formerly the Performance Materials division of Cookson Group plc), 
whereby the share capital of the Company which amounted to £1,777.9m, was reduced by: a) cancelling and extinguishing paid-up capital 
on each of the Vesuvius plc shares in issue immediately prior to the confirmation by the Court of the Vesuvius plc capital reduction, to the 
extent that the amount paid up on each such Vesuvius plc share shall be 10 pence; and b) reducing the nominal value of each of the Vesuvius 
plc shares to 10 pence each. 
In respect of the paid-up capital cancelled pursuant to (a) above: £862.4m was repaid, with such repayment being satisfied by the transfer 
by the Company to Alent plc of the entire share capital of Alent Investments Limited, in consideration of the allotment and issue by Alent 
plc of one Alent plc share for each Vesuvius plc share held by the Vesuvius plc shareholders at the date of the demerger; and the balance of 
£887.7m was retained and transferred to the reserves of the Company to be available for future distributions, leaving issued share capital  
of £27.8m.
The total market value of the Alent plc shares issued was £862.4m, being the market value of the Alent business as at 19 December 2012. 
The rights attached to the redeemable non-voting preference shares are as follows:
(a) the shares carry no rights to receive notice of or attend and vote at any General Meeting of the Company unless a resolution is 
proposed to wind-up the Company or vary, modify, alter or abrogate any of the rights attaching to the redeemable non-voting 
preference shares;
(b) the shares carry no rights to participate in profits or assets of the Company, except if there is a return of capital on winding-up or 
otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members shall be applied first in repaying in full to the 
holder of the redeemable non-voting preference shares the amount paid up on such shares; and
(c) subject to the provisions on the Companies Act, the Company may redeem the redeemable non-voting preference shares at their 
nominal amount at any time specified by either the Directors or the holders of the redeemable non-voting preference shares. On the 
redemption of any redeemable non-voting preference, such shares shall be cancelled.
The rights attached to the deferred share are as follows:
(d) the deferred share shall carry no rights to receive any of the profits of the Company available for distribution by way of dividend or 
otherwise;
(e) except as provided below, the deferred share shall carry no rights to participate in profits or assets of the Company;
(f) if there is a return of capital on winding-up or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members shall 
be applied first in repaying in full to the holder of the deferred share the amount paid up on such share; and
(g) the holder of the deferred share shall not be entitled to receive notice of or attend and vote at any General Meeting of the Company 
unless a resolution is to be proposed which varies, modifies, alters or abrogates any of the rights attaching to the deferred share.
8.  Reserves
8.1 Accounting policy
(a) Taxation
Both current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet 
date.
Current tax payable is based on the taxable result for the year. Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, with the exception that deferred taxation assets are only recognised 
if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable future profits from which the reversal of the underlying timing differences can be 
deducted. Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, 
at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
158
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
8.  Reserves (continued)
8.2 Analysis of reserves
Retained
earnings
£m
At incorporation on 17 September 2012 —
Profit recognised in the period 0.4
Court approved capital reduction 887.7
As at 31 December 2012 888.1
As at 31 December 2012, options exercisable over the £0.10 ordinary shares and capable of being satisfied through new allotments of 
shares or through shares held by the Company’s ESOP were as follows:
Years of 
award/grant
Option
prices (£)
Latest year
of exercise/
vesting
Number
of options/
allocations
outstanding
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2010–2012 nil 2013–2017 2,575,362
Executive Share Option Schemes 2003 2.88 2013 46,858
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2010–2012 nil 2013–2015 123,101
Stock Appreciation Rights 2003 2.88 2013 11,772
Restricted rights 2012 nil 2013–2014 108,805
9.  Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share
capital
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
shareholders’
equity
£m
At incorporation on 17 September 2012 — — —
Profit recognised in the period — 0.4 0.4
Ordinary shares of 638.5 pence allotted during the period 1,777.9 — 1,777.9
Demerger of the Alent plc business and court approved capital reduction (1,750.1) 887.7 (862.4)
As at 31 December 2012 27.8 888.1 915.9
 
10.  Share-based payments
10.1  Accounting policy
The Company principally operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for its employees. Equity-settled share-based payments 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based 
conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return target upon which vesting for some of the awards is conditional, and is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the 
best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in 
headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant. For grants with market-based conditions 
attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. For all other grants, fair value is measured using 
the Black–Scholes model.
10.2  Profit and loss account recognition
The Company operates a number of different share-based payment schemes, the main features of which are detailed on pages 78 to 87 of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Notes to the Company
financial statements continued 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
Financial Statements
159
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
10.  Share-based payments (continued)
10.3  Details of outstanding options 
The information in the tables below has been restated to take into account the demerger of the Alent business from the Cookson Group. The 
number of share options, and other related disclosures, were adjusted with reference to the Vesuvius share price at the date of demerger.
The demerger was effective on 19 December 2012, at which point certain employees previously employed by other Group companies 
were transferred to Vesuvius plc. The share options attached to these employees is shown in the table below, and represents the options 
outstanding at the date of transfer.
Outstanding awards
Awards
exercisable
as at
31 
December
2012
no.
Weighted
average
outstanding
contractual
life of 
awards
years
Range of
exercise
prices
pence
As at 17 
September 
2012 
no.
Transfers 
no.
As at
31 
December
2012
no.
LTIP — 847,076 847,076 — 1.3
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil — n/a
Other plans — 108,805 108,805 — 1.8
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil — n/a
Details of options granted during the year prior to the date of transfer can be found in note 32 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
11.  Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the 
guarantee. Guarantees provided by the Company as at 31 December 2012 in respect of the liabilities of its subsidiary companies amounted 
to £457.3m, which includes guarantees of $250.0m in respect of US Private Placement Loan Notes and £267.3m in respect of drawings 
under the syndicated bank facility. 
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and 
environmental matters. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising 
in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of 
dispute with tax authorities. While the outcome of litigation and other disputes can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal 
advice received and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, 
either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.
12.  Related parties
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business terms. Transactions 
between related parties that are wholly owned Group subsidiaries are not disclosed in this note. 21796-04  2 April 2013 5:52 PM Proof 3
160
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Five year summary — divisional results 
from continuing operations
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Steel division
Revenue £m 1,018 1,078 980 753 866
Trading profit 
(1)
£m 83.8 107.2 103.4 48.9 98.3
Return on sales
 (1)
% 8.2 9.9 10.6 6.5 11.4
Employees: year-end No. 7,601 7,783 7,731 7,138 7,186
Foundry division
Revenue £m 530 608 515 378 526
Trading profit 
(1)
£m 49.2 76.3 67.4 11.7 78.5
Return on sales 
(1)
% 9.3 12.6 13.1 3.1 14.9
Employees: year-end No. 3,585 3,889 3,936 3,423 4,246
(1)
 The unaudited trading profit numbers reported above for the years before 2011 are stated after deduction of management’s estimate of the level  
    of ongoing central costs for Vesuvius as a stand-alone company.
ENQUIRIES
The Company’s share register is managed by Equiniti, who can be 
contacted regarding shareholding queries at the following address:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House, Spencer Road 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA 
Tel (UK only) 0871 384 2335 
Tel (non-UK) +44 (0)121 415 7047
For the hard of hearing, Equiniti offers a special Textel service which 
can be accessed by dialling 0871 384 2255 (or +44 (0)121 415 7028 
from outside the UK).
All other shareholder enquiries not related to the share register should 
be addressed to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office or  
emailed to: shareholder.information@vesuvius.com.
REGISTERED OFFICE AND GROUP HEAD OFFICE
Vesuvius plc 
165 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2AE 
Tel +44 (0)20 7822 0000 
Fax +44 (0)20 7822 0100 
(Registered in England & Wales No. 8217766)
CORPORATE WEBSITE
Shareholder and other information about the Company can be 
accessed on the Company’s website: www.vesuvius.com.
SHAREVIEW
A website, www.shareview.co.uk, is operated by Equiniti, the 
Company’s Registrars, enabling shareholders to access details of their 
shareholdings online. The website provides information useful to the 
management of investments together with an extensive schedule of 
frequently asked questions. In order to gain access to information on 
shareholdings the shareholder reference number is required, which can 
be found at the top of the Company’s share certificates.
Shareholders can register to receive shareholder communications 
electronically, including the Company’s Report and Accounts, rather 
than in paper form, using Shareview. The registration process requires 
input of the shareholder reference number. To ensure that shareholder 
communications are received in electronic form, “email” should be 
selected as the mailing preference. Once registered, shareholders 
will be sent an email notifying them each time that a shareholder 
communication has been published on the Company’s website.
DEALING SERVICES
UK resident shareholders can now sell shares on the Internet or by 
phone using Equiniti’s Shareview Dealing facility by either logging on 
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling 0845 603 7037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm on any business day (excluding Bank Holidays). 
In order to gain access to this service the shareholder reference number 
is required, which can be found at the top of the Company’s share 
certificates.
Shareholder Information www.vesuvius.com Stock Code:
Vesuvius would like to offer special thanks to all those who kindly agreed to have their  
photographs taken and published in this Annual Report. 
Art Direction: Vesuvius Corporate Communication / Claire Morel Fatio 
Lay out: Claire Morel Fatio – Camille de Montmorillon / Jones and Palmer 
Produced by
Photographs: © Claire Morel Fatio 
 © Samuel Dhote 
 © Getty Images
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
The Company offers holders of ordinary shares the opportunity to 
participate in a dividend reinvestment plan, through which shareholders 
can use any cash dividend declared to buy additional shares in Vesuvius. 
Further details, including the terms and conditions of the Plan, are 
available on the Vesuvius website (www.vesuvius.com) or from Equiniti 
by calling the Share Dividend Helpline on 0871 384 2268 (or +44 
(0)121 415 7047 from outside the UK). 
OVERSEAS PAYMENT SERVICE
Equiniti provides a dividend payment service in over 30 countries 
that automatically converts payments into the local currency by an 
arrangement with Citibank Europe PLC. Further details, including an 
application form and terms and conditions of the service, are available on 
www.shareview.co.uk or from Equiniti by calling +44 (0)121 415 7047 
or writing to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, 
BN99 6DA, United Kingdom (please quote Overseas Payment Service with 
details of the Company and your shareholder reference number).
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
2013 Annual General Meeting 4 June 2013
Announcement of 2013 half year results August 2013
Announcement of 2013 full year results March 2014
BOILER ROOM SCAMS
In recent years, many companies have become aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based 
“brokers” who target UK shareholders, offering to buy their shares or 
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US 
or UK investments. These operations are commonly known as “boiler 
rooms”. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports. If 
you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
 ❯ Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
 ❯ Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting 
involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister/ 
 ❯ Report the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234  
(or +44 20 7066 1000 from outside the UK).
 ❯ If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the FSA website at: 
www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/consumerinformation/
ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS
As at 31 December 2012  Investor Type Shareholdings
 
Private
Institutional
and other Total 1–1,000
1,001–
50,000
50,001–
500,000 500,001+
Number of holders 3,659 1,047 4,706 3,753 736 151 66
Percentage of holders 77.75% 22.25% 100% 79.75% 15.64% 3.21% 1.40%
Percentage of shares held 1.67% 98.33% 100% 0.23% 1.79% 9.54% 88.44%
