 VESUVIUS: black 85%
PLC: black 60%
VESUVIUS: white
PLC: black 20%
VESUVIUS: black 85%
PLC: black 60%
VESUVIUS: white
PLC: black 20%
Vesuvius plc 
165 Fleet Street
London ec4a 2ae
T +44 (0)20 7822 0000
www.vesuvius.com
Vesuvius plc a nnual report and accounts 2014
a nnual report and accounts 2014 Introduction to Vesuvius
Forward-looking statements This a nnual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, strategy, performance, financial condition, and growth opportunities of the 
Vesuvius Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty and are based on assumptions and 
involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this a nnual Report and, other than in accordance with its legal  
and regulatory obligations, the c ompany undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this a nnual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Vesuvius is a global leader in molten metal flow engineering, 
principally serving the steel and foundry industries.
We develop innovative and customised solutions, often  
used in extremely demanding industrial environments,  
which enable our customers to improve their  
manufacturing processes, enhance product quality  
and reduce energy consumption.
Our ultimate goal is to create value for our customers in  
order to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and provide 
our shareholders with a superior return on their investment, 
whilst providing each of our employees with a safe  
workplace where he or she is recognised, developed  
and properly rewarded. 
Find out more about Vesuvius at www.vesuvius.com
 See Strategy on p10-23
 See Business model on p10 and 1 1
 See KPIs on p32 and 33
 See Risk management on p22 and 23
Strategic reporting:
Printed by c PI c olour –  who are ISO14001 certified, 
c arbonNeutral
®
, a lcohol Free and FSc
®
 and PeFc c hain  
of c ustody certified. 
This report is produced on c laro Bulk – an FSc c ertified 
material, which is manufactured using totally chlorine  
free process, and from a sustainable supply FSc chain.  
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Designed and Produced by Friend. www.friendstudio.com Highlights of 2014 Contents
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014
Strategic report
02 Chairman’s statement
06 Vesuvius at a glance
10 Our business model
12 Chief Executive’s strategic overview
22 Risk management
26 Financial review
32 Key performance indicators
34 Operating review: Steel division
39 Operating review: Foundry division
 
44 Corporate Responsibility
46 Safety
49 Sustainability
52 Human Resources
56 Board of Directors
58 Group Executive Committee
60 Chairman’s governance letter
61 Governance report
67 Audit Committee
73 Nomination Committee
75 Remuneration overview
76 Annual Directors’ remuneration report
86 Remuneration Policy
94 Directors’ report
97 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
100 Independent auditor’s report
103 Group income statement
104   Group statement of comprehensive income
105  Group statement of cash flows
106  Group balance sheet
107  Group statement of changes in equity
108  Notes to the consolidated financial  
statements
148 Company balance sheet
149  Notes to the Company financial statements
154 Five-year summary: Divisional results
154 Shareholder information
156  Glossary
Our Business
Our Performance
Our Responsibility
Governance
Financial Statements
1.  Underlying basis is at constant currency and excludes separately reported items and the  
impact of acquisitions and disposals.
2.  For definitions of non-GAAP financial measures, refer to Note 4 of the Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
3. Headline results refer to continuing operations and exclude separately reported items.
OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORma Nc E OUR RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNa Nc E FINa Nc Ia L STa TEmENTS
Revenue of £1,444m down 4.4%, up 3.5% on  
an underlying basis
(1)
 (201 3: £1,5 11m)
Trading profit
(2) 
of £142.8m, up 2% on a reported basis,  
and up 1 1.6% on an underlying basis
(1)
 (201 3: £140.0m)
Return on sales
(2)
 improved by 62 basis points to 9.9%  
(201 3: 9.3%); 71 basis points improvement on an  
underlying basis
(1)
Headline earnings per share
(3)
 of 33.4 pence, up 4.7%  
(201 3: 31.9 pence)
Recommended final dividend of 1 1. 1 25 pence per share,  
Group full year dividend of 16. 1 25 pence (201 3: 1 5.0 pence)
Y ear-end net debt
(2) 
of £268.3m, with net debt to  
EBITDA ratio of 1.48x
Revenue £m
2014 1,444
2013 1,511
2012 1,548
Trading proﬁt £m
2014 142.8
2013 140.0
2012 131.3
Headline EPS pence
2014 33.4
2013 31.9
2012 27.0
Free cash ﬂow £m
2014 59.2
2013 94.9
2012 54.2
EBITDA £m
2014 181.3
2013 179.3
2012 174.4
Headline earnings £m
2014 90.3
2013 87.7
2012 75.0
01 “ In 2014, the Company made good 
progress on all five of its strategic 
priorities, whilst maintaining 
its ultimate focus on creating 
sustainable value for shareholders. ”
John mcDonough c BE Chairman
Chairman’s statement 
See Governance on p56-97:
 Chairman’s governance letter on p60
 Board effectiveness on p63
 Board accountability on p65
 Audit Committee report on p67
 Nomination Committee report on p73
 Remuneration Committee report on p75
 
Strategic focus
I am pleased to report that during 2014  
your Company has continued to make very 
encouraging progress both in its financial 
performance and its strategic positioning.
Your Board has adopted a clearly defined 
strategy for profitable growth and has already 
delivered substantially against that strategy. 
In 2013, the structure of the Company was 
successfully transformed, exiting non-core 
businesses in order to create a fully focused 
molten metal engineering company, with 
global leadership positions in its chosen 
markets, providing technologically advanced 
products and services that are critical to its 
customers’ efficiency and profitability. 
Having done so, the priority for the 
management in 2014 was to execute on  
the five stated strategic priorities: 
•   Reinforcing our technology leadership
•   Enlarging our addressable markets through 
increased penetration of existing and new 
value-creating solutions
•  Leveraging our strong positions in 
developing markets to capture the growth 
opportunities that they represent
•  Improving our cost leadership and our 
margins
 •  Building an increasingly comprehensive 
technical services offering.
Good progress was made on all five of these 
priorities. In particular, the business was 
strengthened in China, which remains a 
strategically important growth market for us 
in the long term, and two further technical 
services acquisitions in the US and Brazil  
were completed in August and October 
respectively. Details of how management 
continued to deliver against all of these 
strategic priorities are set out later in this 
Strategic report. 
The Board as a whole is very clear that the 
Company’s ultimate focus must be on 
creating sustainable value for shareholders, 
and we are prepared to explore all options 
that we believe can help achieve this. This has 
been demonstrated in recent months and this 
open-minded approach will continue to be 
central to the way in which the Board sets the 
future strategic direction of the Company.
Performance and dividend
In 2014 the Company focused on exploiting 
its market opportunities to the full, whilst 
exercising firm financial and capital discipline. 
This resulted in a solid performance in 2014, 
despite mixed trading conditions in end-
markets and the unpredictable economic  
and geopolitical outlook globally. Profit 
performance and margins have improved 
again, cash generation has remained strong, 
and the Company’s balance sheet is robust.
Vesuvius is a well-invested and inherently  
cash generative business. Its dividend  
policy aims to deliver long-term dividend 
growth, provided that this is supported  
by underlying earnings, cash flows,  
capital expenditure requirements and the  
prevailing market outlook. The Board has 
therefore recommended a final dividend of 
1 1. 125 pence per share for the year ended 
31 December 2014 (2013: 10.25 pence). This 
would result in a total dividend for the year  
of 16. 125 pence per share (2013: 15 pence), 
an increase of 7 .5%. If approved at the 
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 10 April 2015. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2014 02 Board and governance
During the course of the year, your Board has 
continued to build an increasingly detailed 
understanding of Vesuvius, its people, its 
markets and the opportunities and challenges 
it faces. This is vital if we are properly to 
discharge our responsibility for setting the 
strategic direction of the Company, and for 
ensuring that the appropriate culture is 
embedded throughout the organisation  
to deliver that strategy. 
To that end, during the year the Board 
conducted visits to the existing Vesuvius R&D 
and manufacturing facilities in Cleveland  
and Pittsburgh, together with the building 
acquired for the new R&D laboratory. The 
Board visited customers of the Foundry 
business, and conducted management 
meetings with both the Flow Control and 
Foundry groups in NAFTA. In March, 
I personally visited the Company’s Advanced 
Refractories and Flow Control facilities in 
China and, in September, the Steel and 
Foundry operations in India.
The Board firmly believes that strong 
corporate governance is central to the delivery 
of sustainable long-term shareholder value. 
The Company continues to operate under a 
robust governance structure which complies 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
and develops governance arrangements to 
comply with best practice.
The Board also believes that thorough and 
structured long-term succession planning is 
an important element of that governance. 
With that in mind, in June a dedicated 
strategy day was held where, amongst other 
things, a review of Executive Director and 
senior management succession planning  
was conducted. In November, we undertook 
an externally facilitated Board evaluation, 
which built on the themes identified from  
the evaluation undertaken in 2013. The very 
positive results of this evaluation are set out  
in the Governance report on page 64. 
As a result of these initiatives, I can state with 
confidence that yours is a knowledgeable, 
cohesive and well-diversified Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills and experience and  
a clear understanding of its responsibilities 
both to the Company and to shareholders.
Having created a substantially new Board at 
the time of the demerger in late 2012, there 
were no further changes to its composition 
during 2014. Jeff Hewitt, however, is to stand 
down at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. Jeff has been a Non-executive 
Director of the Company and its predecessor, 
Cookson Group plc, for nine years, has been 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and has 
served as the Senior Independent Director for 
the past two years. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank him for his outstanding 
service over that period of time.
The Board has today announced the 
appointment of two new Non-executive 
Directors, who will join the Board on 2 April 
2015. Douglas Hurt has been Finance Director 
of IMI plc, the global engineering group, since 
2006 and is also a Non-executive Director  
of Tate & Lyle PLC. Hock Goh’s experience  
of working in China, and from his years at 
Schlumberger, will be particularly valuable  
as we continue to develop our businesses in 
China and in Technical Services. Douglas Hurt 
will succeed Jeff Hewitt as Audit Committee 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
following the 2015 AGM. 
Details of the composition, responsibilities  
and operation of the Board, and the current 
Directors’ biographies, are set out in the 
Governance report starting on page 56. 
Biographical information for Douglas Hurt 
and Hock Goh will be included in the Notice 
of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM.
The Company’s Code of Conduct which 
clearly sets out the culture, values and 
behaviour that the Board expects from all  
our people is discussed further on pages 44 
and 45, and is available in full on the 
Company’s website www.vesuvius.com. 
Our people
We ask a lot of our people – as do our 
customers – and I continue to admire their 
talent, their commitment and their ambition 
to deliver over and above what is expected of 
them. This professionalism, across the Group, 
is the single most significant contributor to  
the Company’s success and, on behalf of my 
Board colleagues, I thank them all. 
In return, the Board recognises fully that the 
health and safety of our people, and the 
creation of opportunities for them to develop 
and use their talents, is key to the sustainable 
long-term success of your Company. The 
sections on Safety and on Human Resources 
within the Strategic Report set out how this 
commitment is put into action.
a nnual General meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will 
be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn 
Fields, London at 1 1.00 am on 14 May 2015. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory  
notes accompany this Annual Report and are 
available on our website. My Board colleagues 
and I look forward to meeting as many 
shareholders as possible at that time.
In the meantime, on behalf of the Board,  
I thank all shareholders for their continued 
support of Vesuvius, and look forward to 
reporting on further positive progress in the 
months and years ahead.
John mcDonough c BE, Chairman
3 March 2015
03
OUR BUSINESS Section One: Our Business 04 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 In this section 
06  Vesuvius at a glance
10 Our business model
12 Chief Executive’s strategic overview
22 Risk management
The Strategic Report set out on pages 02 to 53 contains a fair review of our 
businesses, strategy, and business model and the associated principal risks 
and uncertainties. We also deliver a review of our 2014 performance and set 
out an overview of our markets. Details of our people, values and approach 
to Corporate Responsibility are also contained in the report. This section 
shows how we are well-positioned to grow and to deliver superior returns 
to shareholders.
François Wanecq  
Chief Executive
Our Business
Section One
1
c hris O’Shea  
Chief Financial Officer
OUR BUSINESS
05 Vesuvius at a glance
Americas
3,737
16
18
Production 
sites
Employees Sales 
offices
5
R&D 
centres
38
c ountries
6
c ontinents
65
Production sites
84
Sales offices
16
R&D centres
11
,
792
Employees
Worldwide presence 
We are a global Group with a 
business model based on offering 
production and services in close 
proximity to our customers.
See Our business model on p10 and 1 1
americas
Revenue
 £4 54 . m
2013: £481.3m
23%
77%
Steel
Foundry
Production and Sales sites
R&D centres
Key to map
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 06 EMEA Asia-Pacific
3,301 4,754
20 29
30 36
Production 
sites
Production 
sites
Employees Employees Sales 
offices
Sales 
offices
2 9
R&D 
centres
R&D 
centres
EmEa
Revenue
 £ 6 38.8m
2013: £672.3m
34%
66%
Steel
Foundry
41%
59%
Steel
Foundry
a sia-Pacific
Revenue
 £ 3 51 . 6m
2013: £356.9m
07
OUR BUSINESS Steel division The continuous casting of steel  
is a highly demanding process that is critically 
dependent upon consistent product quality and 
optimised production. Vesuvius provides systems, 
products and services that allow steel mills to 
control the flow of molten metal in the continuous 
casting process. Our products protect the steel 
from oxidation and chemical contamination, 
increasing efficiency and productivity, enhancing 
quality, reducing the environmental footprint and 
improving the safety of the casting process.
Steel Flow c ontrol supplies products used to 
channel and control the flow of molten steel from 
ladle to tundish and from tundish to mould; slide 
gate refractories for furnaces ladles and tundishes; 
slide gate systems; temperature measurement and 
slag level detection systems; tundish and mould 
fluxes; and control devices to monitor and regulate 
steel flow into the mould. These products have 
been designed to resist extreme thermomechanical 
stress and corrosive environments. The majority of 
these products are consumed during the process  
of making steel and, consequently, demand is 
primarily linked to steel production volumes. 
Continuing innovation allows us to offer  
enriched solutions that create additional value  
in our customers’ processes, leading to a  
sales progression regularly ahead of steel 
production volumes.
a dvanced Refractories include specialist 
refractory materials for lining steelmaking vessels 
such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes.  
These are in the form of powder mixes, which are 
spray-applied or cast onto the vessel to be lined 
(“monolithics“) and refractory shapes (e.g. bricks, 
pads and dams). Vesuvius is one of the world’s 
largest manufacturers of monolithic refractory 
linings for vessels subject to extreme temperatures, 
corrosion and abrasion. Key success factors in the 
Advanced Refractories product line are installation 
technologies, products adapted to fit customers’ 
processes, and effective and efficient logistics 
services. These factors are successfully combined 
with Vesuvius’ R&D centres, its knowledge of 
customers’ processes and its project management 
capability to deliver market-leading solutions to  
our customers.
Vesuvius at a glance continued 
Steel division
CMYK
Grey : 0 / 0 / 0 /85
Red : 0 / 100 / 96 / 0
See Steel division review on p34-38
Revenue
£981.4m
Vesuvius flow control products
Vesuvius advanced refractories 
products
Stack 
repair
Iron 
trough
Tap hole 
clay
Blast furnace
Ladle, tundish 
and mould
c onverter and 
refining ladles
Steel slab or bloom 
ready for sale 
1
3
4
2
2
Torpedo ladle transports 
molten iron from blast 
furnace to steel works
1
3
Linings
and  
bricks
Ladle 
linings
Ladle 
bottoms
Purge 
plug
Well 
nozzle
Ladle slide gate/
tube changer
Ladle 
shroud
Robotic 
arm
Robotic 
arm
Ladle
Tundish
mould mould
In a typical steel manufacturing plant
Temperature 
measurement
Stopper 
& rigging
Tundish tube 
changer
Scrap
Refining 
ladle
Convertor
Continuous 
casting
Mould 
flux
Tundish 
flux
Submerged 
entry shroud
Mould 
level 
control
Linings
Weir
Dam
Impact pad 
(Turbostop
®
) Gas 
diffuser
Iron ore
Limestone
Coal
Coke
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 08 CMYK
Grey : 0 / 0 / 0 /85
Red : 0 / 100 / 96 / 0
Vesuvius’ Foundry division trading as Foseco,  
is a world leader in the supply of consumable 
products, solutions and associated services related 
to the foundry industry. The foundry process is 
highly sequential and, similar to the continuous 
casting of steel, is critically dependent on 
consistency of product quality and productivity 
optimisation. The Foundry division’s solutions and 
advanced computer simulation techniques allow 
foundries to reduce defects and hence reduce 
labour-intensive fettling and machining, minimise 
metal usage requirements, influence the metal 
solidification process and automate moulding  
and casting, thus reducing cost, energy usage  
and mould size.
The conditioning of molten metal, the nature of  
the mould used and, especially, the design of the 
way metal flows into the mould are key parameters 
in a foundry, determining both the quality of the 
finished castings and the labour, energy and  
metal usage efficiency of the foundry. Vesuvius’ 
products and associated services to foundries 
improve these parameters.
Foundry division
See Foundry division review on p39-41
Revenue
£463.0m
Vesuvius foundry products
In a typical iron casting plant
c ope
Drag
Ladle
Furnace
metal treatment 
INOCULIN*
MSI UNIT
TM
NUCLEANT*
NODULANT*
melt shop 
refractories 
KALTEK*
VAPEX*
CRITERION*
KELLUDINITE*
mould detail 
exploded diagram
1
mould section 1
Frame technology 
Innovation in mould 
preparation
Sand binders
POLITEC*
ECOLOTEC*
FENOTEC*
POLISET
TM
ESHANOL*
c oatings
RHEOTEC*
TENO
TM
HOLCOTE*
ISOMOL*
c ore production
POLITEC*
Feeders
FEEDEX*
KALMINEX*
KALMIN*
KALPUR*
Feeder positioned 
within mould
Core
Filter
Feeder
c ope
Filtration
SEDEX*
SIVEX*
STELEX*
RODEX
TM
Drag
mould 1
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
09
OUR BUSINESS We operate a profitable, flexible, 
cash generative and growth-
building business model. Over 
many years we have built the  
brand equity of our Vesuvius and 
Foseco products through reliability, 
technology and service. 
The foundation of our business 
model is our global presence. Our 
industry experts are embedded at 
many customer locations and are 
therefore ideally placed to identify 
potential service and process 
improvements in collaboration  
with customers.
Our business model
Advantages of our business model
•  Resilient to end-market volatility due to flexibility of diversified manufacturing footprint  
and adjustable variable cost base
•  Profitable, as it allows value pricing for bespoke products and services
•  Generates growth, as we can enlarge our market with additional innovative products  
and solutions.
Global presence 
Vesuvius is present on six continents, 
supporting the development of global steel 
and foundry manufacturing processes with 
new technologies. We have manufacturing 
capability in all the main steel and foundry 
markets and hire and train local engineers, 
who are progressively integrated within the 
Vesuvius network of experts, and offered 
international careers. Local manufacturing, 
local expertise, and leveraging a global 
knowledge of our customers’ processes 
give Vesuvius a special relationship with 
our customers, helping them optimise their 
process and product performance. All over 
the world, new plants use Vesuvius and 
Foseco products to create the best conditions 
for success. 
a dvanced technology knowledge 
Our continuing investment in the Company’s 
Research & Development centres is reflected 
in all areas of our offering. We have 
knowledge of the most advanced ceramic 
and metallurgical techniques using state-of-
the-art equipment and the most advanced 
technologies of flow simulation and finite 
element analysis. We are therefore able to 
provide our customers with sophisticated, 
innovative, custom-designed solutions, 
with the highest level of confidence in their 
suitability, creating value, and helping them 
differentiate from their competition. 
Optimised manufacturing footprint 
Our successfully tested products can be 
manufactured at a short distance from 
our customers’ plants, guaranteeing cost 
competitive and time efficient delivery. We 
optimise our cost competitiveness by investing 
in the lowest cost production site in the area 
and have established manufacturing facilities 
in emerging markets from the beginning of 
their industrialisation. This, together with the 
high volume of pieces we are able to produce, 
provides our customers with the best balance 
between value, cost and service for our high 
technology solutions. 
Service and consistency 
Alongside developing our global presence, 
we ensure a local service to our customers, 
from inventory management to high quality 
technical support at their sites and the ability 
to swiftly modify production and supply to 
reflect changes in customer requirements. 
Our knowledge of end-market processes, 
specifications and techniques around the 
world gives our experts an unparalleled ability 
to support our customers. This unique level of 
service relies on our technicians’ permanent 
presence at our customers’ sites, and their 
ability to leverage worldwide expertise 
accumulated across the Vesuvius network. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 10 Optimised manufacturing footprint
Industrialised, low cost, dispersed, lean 
manufacturing, close to customers provides 
reliable, “just-in-time” products
a dvanced technology knowledge
Our technology centres develop value-adding 
solutions involving engineered systems and  
high value consumables 
Global presence
Using our global spread of expertise to identify  
and create market opportunities
Service and consistency
Serving our customers reliably, competitively and 
consistently with consumables critical for their 
manufacturing processes
>15-year average customer relationship                      Over 200 technical experts across six continents
a growth 
generating 
model with our 
cU STOmER  
at the centre
advanced 
Technology
Service and 
consistency
Global  
Presence
Optimised 
manufacturing
55% of manufacturing sites in developing countries            Over 100 PhDs and engineers      16 R&D facilities
11
OUR BUSINESS Revenue
£1.444bn
Trading profit
£142.8m
Chief Executive’s strategic overview
“  During 2014 we delivered further 
margin improvement, underlying 
revenue growth substantially ahead 
of our end markets, and completed 
the first acquisitions in pursuit of 
our strategy to build a substantial 
technical services business. ”
1,932kg 3.9MWh
a verage c O
2
 
reduction*
a verage energy 
saving*
50%
a verage increase 
in refractory life
* Over seven-year lifespan of panels
François Wanecq Chief Executive
Improved uptime, productivity 
and energy consumption in 
aluminium melting
Value creating solutions
Our solution 
Using a novel installation and 
application technology, our 
technicians were able to recommend 
changes to the existing furnace 
design and refractory system. 
By incorporating products from 
the Alugard
†
 suite of monolithic 
refractories, the customer’s 
aluminium team was able to  
increase refractory performance  
and change their scheduled 
maintenance practices. 
The challenge 
A team from our Advanced 
Refractories division was asked to 
improve aluminium furnace uptime 
and productivity at a high output 
production facility in the US. 
A critical target for the project was 
to reduce the energy consumed 
in delivering the operational 
requirement of holding the 
aluminium alloy at 700ºC for  
24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Introduction
In 2014 Vesuvius continued to progress in 
line with its objectives and strategy. We have 
restored our margins despite a mixed market 
environment, built on our strong base in Asia, 
invested in new Research & Development 
centres and proceeded with acquisitions to 
build our new offering in Technical Services 
for the steel and foundry industries.
With the ongoing development of innovative 
solutions that create value for our customers, 
we are confident that we will continue to 
grow and deliver increasing value to our 
shareholders.
Performance overview
Vesuvius reported global sales in 2014 of 
£1,444m, down 4.4% on 2013 due to the 
significant strengthening of sterling against 
most of our major trading currencies (2013: 
£1,51 1m) and the effects of disposals in 2013. 
At constant exchange rates and adjusted 
for the effects of acquisitions and disposals, 
underlying revenue was ahead of 2013 
by 3.5%, and, significantly, ahead of the 
underlying growth in our markets. Similarly, 
reported headline trading profit in 2014 was 
£142.8m (2013: £140m), an increase of 1 1.6% 
over the previous year on an underlying basis. 
Our revenue expansion was helped by the 
acquisitions we completed in the second half 
of 2014, as we implemented our strategy to 
build a Technical Services offering for the steel 
and foundry industries. The two acquisitions 
contributed an aggregate £3.6m of sales and 
£0.5m of trading profit in 2014.
  Read more about Our performance on p26-41 
Our markets
Aggregate world steel production increased 
by 1. 1 % in 2014. Contrary to the trend of the 
last decade, growth in China was lower than 
in the rest of the world, at 0.9%. Production 
in the European Union countries recovered 
somewhat, increasing 1.8%, along with 
North America, up 2.0%. South Korea  
and Middle Eastern countries showed the 
highest growth. 
The foundry market environment was 
mixed. The continued decline of metal and 
commodities prices resulted in a slowdown 
in the mining industry, which negatively 
impacted the activity of the steel foundries in 
South Africa, Australia, Indonesia and North 
America. Conversely, the car industry enjoyed 
a good recovery in Europe after a very poor 
year in 2013, and experienced a record 
year in NAFTA. The truck market remained 
disappointing globally. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 12 More generally, the engineering sector was 
sluggish with industrial investment remaining 
at a low level as a result of the general under-
utilisation of production capacity and the 
slowdown of Chinese industrial growth. 
  Read more about our market in our  
Operating Reviews on p34-41
Our strategy
The strategy we developed since launching 
Vesuvius on the market is articulated around 
five pillars designed to ensure long-term 
revenue growth, improved profitability and 
sustained cash generation.
Reinforce our technology leadership 
Vesuvius was built and grew on technology 
breakthroughs that enabled the steel 
continuous casting and foundry industries  
to substantially improve their efficiency.  
Our technology leadership drives our unique 
value proposition and underpins our ability 
to deliver this value enhancement to our 
customers. In terms of percentage of revenue, 
we invest twice as much in R&D as our  
main competitors. 
The benefits 
Use of Alugard
†
 insulating panels in a 
600 kg aluminium furnace has been 
shown to save up to 1,932 kg CO
2
 
and 3.9 MWh over the seven-year 
lifetime of the panels. Additionally, 
our fully engineered custom designed 
solution significantly enhanced 
secondary aluminium operations. 
Specifically our services resulted in an 
increase of 50% in refractory life in 
the most erosive area of the furnace, 
with associated improvements in the 
productivity of the melting furnace, 
and reduction in the frequency 
of planned furnace outages for 
refractory repairs.
Increase penetration of value-creating 
solutions Our technology has been widely 
adopted by the most sophisticated producers 
in the most developed markets. However, 
there are still substantial differences in the 
penetration of our solutions within the 
industry and consequently there is a wider 
audience of customers who we believe 
can benefit from them. As steel producers 
and foundry businesses grow in new areas, 
they will require higher levels of quality and 
performance, and we will dedicate our 
technical marketing efforts to help these 
customers develop. See case study below 
c apture growth in developing markets 
Building on our long lasting presence in all 
markets, we can leverage the high growth 
enjoyed by our customers’ industries in 
the emerging countries, which are large 
consumers of steel goods and foundry 
castings. Consequently, a majority of our 
investment is focused on capacity expansion 
in these new territories in line with our 
business model to produce at close proximity 
to our customers’ sites.
Improve cost leadership and margins 
Our supply chain efficiency is the assurance 
that we deliver products and services to our 
customers at the right price while maintaining 
our margins. We apply the principles of 
lean manufacturing across all our sites 
to continuously improve our quality and 
productivity. In addition, our global presence 
and leadership allow us to benefit from a high 
volume effect, and deliver excellent service 
from local sites.
Build a technical services offering Our 
customers’ processes require increasing 
levels of engineering services to reach the 
demanding levels of safety, accuracy and 
consistency required by their end-customers’ 
quality specifications. Grounded in our deep 
understanding of customer processes, we 
are building a new activity within Vesuvius 
to offer a comprehensive set of technical 
services that will enhance process control 
and monitoring at our customers’ sites, 
thus improving quality and lowering total 
production costs.
†  Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in  
certain countries.
13
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
Progress against our strategy
In 2014 we achieved considerable progress 
in the implementation of our strategy with 
the commissioning of a brand new plant 
for Foundry products in Changshu (China), 
the opening of a new global research centre 
for Foundry in Enschede (Netherlands), the 
commissioning of new capacity for Steel Flow 
Control in the Czech Republic and Brazil, and 
the ramp up of our new plant for Advanced 
Refractories in the United Arab Emirates.
Moreover we have started to build our 
Technical Services offering with the 
acquisition of two companies focusing 
on data capture for the steel and foundry 
industries: ECIL Met Tec in Brazil and Process 
Metrix in California, USA.
Last year was also the first industrial 
installation of our robotic tube-changing 
system for continuous casting in Hyundai 
Korea and the conclusion of additional 
contracts for similar equipment elsewhere.  
See case study right  
You will see in the various case studies set 
out in this Strategic report, clear examples of 
how we deliver this strategy across markets, 
geographies and business units. 
The challenge  
We have been working in partnership with 
Hyundai Steel to achieve consistent operational 
practices, improve final steel quality, and 
enhance plant safety by removing the need  
for steel plant operational personnel in the 
exposed areas of the caster and ladle platform. 
Our solution  
Vesuvius introduced the latest generation of 
tube changers (the SEM3085™), and a fully 
automated robotic system to manage refractory 
tube insertion and removal during the casting 
process. The success of this project has led 
Hyundai to entrust Vesuvius with three new 
ladle platform projects that incorporate  
robotic solutions.
The benefits 
An improved sealing between ladle and tundish 
reduces nitrogen pickup and limits the delay to 
less than 15 seconds in cases where an oxygen 
lancing operation is required to open the ladle. 
Similar installations are now also scheduled 
for customers in Europe, North America and 
South Africa. Such competitive advantage is 
being steadily enhanced through the strategic 
acquisition of companies with complementary 
product ranges, particularly in the areas of 
sensors, instrumentation and automation,  
as well as R&D that expands Vesuvius’  
capabilities through product development  
and multi-technology offerings.
Technology partnership with  
Hyundai to improve safety,  
quality and productivity
Progress against strategy
Number of robotic tube 
changes
2,000
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 14 Our businesses
Steel Flow c ontrol The Steel Flow Control 
product line performed well in 2014 despite 
sluggish end-market conditions. Aggregate 
world steel production grew by 1. 1 %, 
nearly half the growth rate of the previous 
year. This was partly due to a significant 
slowdown in Chinese growth to below the 
levels experienced across the rest of the 
world. Indeed this may be a signal of some 
acceleration in the ongoing transformation 
of the Chinese economy from an investment 
driven growth economy towards one that is 
consumer driven. Such transformation will 
induce a shift in steel quality demand, from 
the less sophisticated long products used for 
construction towards the high quality flat 
products used in consumer goods and the car 
industry. This flat steel segment is the largest 
customer for our high technology products 
and solutions and this development should 
support a growing demand for our Steel 
Flow Control products and our developing 
Technical Services offering. At the same 
time the relative steadiness of the developed 
markets has contributed to our results due to 
our very strong positions in these countries.
Overall, the value of sales from our Steel 
Flow Control product line grew by 4.3% in 
2014 on an underlying basis, substantially 
out-performing the 1. 1 % increase in world 
steel production tonnage. This includes 
the successful progression of our recent 
acquisition Metallurgica, which sells fluxes for 
the continuous casting of steel, and which 
during 2014 improved its market penetration 
and profitability. 
  Read more about Steel Flow Control on p35-37 
a dvanced Refractories Advanced 
Refractories has been focusing on the 
recovery of its margin rate by concentrating 
its product range on a smaller number of 
products and solutions that offer a real value 
difference to our customers. After the sale 
of our non-core lower margin Canadian 
construction and German brick businesses  
in 2013, the perimeter of activity is now 
focused on core products. Nevertheless,  
even after correction for the effect of 
disposals, and foreign exchange translation 
effects, Advanced Refractories sales  
increased by 4.5% in 2014 compared to 
2013. The particular emphasis given to the 
higher margin lines such as precast, taphole 
clay and Mag-Carbon bricks contributed to 
the improvement of our Group margin rate 
by 215 basis points on an underlying basis 
in 2014.
  Read more about Advanced Refractories  
on p37-38 
Foundry division Our Foundry division was 
impacted by local political and economic 
instability in countries where we traditionally 
enjoyed good volumes and margins, such 
as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil. At the same 
time, the decline of metal and commodity 
prices reduced levels of investment in the 
mining industry with negative consequences 
for those of our customers active in this 
segment. In addition, the start-up of our  
new Chinese plant at Changshu took longer 
than expected. As a consequence, our  
overall sales and margins were affected. 
Measures were taken during the year to 
restore profitability in Brazil and Ukraine, 
while in Thailand some of the effects of 
the instability corrected themselves. During 
the year, we dedicated significant effort to 
enhancing technology development and 
innovation in this division, coupled with the 
appointment of new management. 
  Read more about our Foundry  
division on p39-41 
Innovation as our foundation
Vesuvius has a proud heritage of bringing 
innovation to the markets we serve. Our 
developments in VISO™ isostatic pressing 
technology and in sliding gate systems were 
key enablers of the continuous casting process 
now deployed throughout the whole of the 
steel industry. Our innovations in molten 
metal filtration and casting feeding systems 
have been used extensively to improve the 
quality of cast product in the foundry market. 
Maintaining that technology leadership is a 
central objective of our strategy, and the spirit 
of innovation is at the core of all our activities.
Turning innovation into results Innovation 
is all about translating an idea into a 
commercial reality. In 2014, we increased our 
spending on R&D by 2.8% over the previous 
year, on a constant currency basis to £26. 1m, 
representing 1.8% of sales. We currently 
have over 160 patent families, and 1,750 
patents granted worldwide, with 640 patent 
applications pending. In 2014 we estimate 
that 8% of our revenues came from products 
launched within the past five years. This is our 
first year analysing this revenue as an internal 
innovation benchmark, and our goal is to 
double this over the next five years.
Delivering solutions The innovation 
process at Vesuvius begins with an intimate 
knowledge of our customers’ processes 
and needs. Vesuvius solutions and products 
can greatly influence the quality of our 
customers’ products and the efficiency of 
their processes, and all our new products and 
solutions are developed with value creation 
for our customers in mind. We have more 
than 200 technical experts supported by 
local development teams on all continents to 
ensure we meet our customers’ needs. These 
local development laboratories play a lead role 
in customising products for customers, and 
qualifying new sources of key raw materials. 
15
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
Global Research & Development centres
Site Country
Barlborough UK
Bettsville USA
Enschede Netherlands
Feignies France
Ghlin Belgium
Pittsburgh USA
Our solution 
A recent development by Vesuvius 
of the Accuoptix™ sensor integrates 
a long-life optical detector, with 
an advanced electronic interface, 
to provide stable and accurate 
temperature signals over time. 
The optical detector replaces the 
traditional expensive and fragile 
Platinum-Rhodium thermocouples 
used in the current generation 
of continuous temperature 
measurement systems.
The challenge 
In order to control continuous casting 
operations, it is essential to know 
the temperature of the liquid steel 
in the tundish at all times during the 
sequence. The existing technology 
is based on one-time use probes or 
costly and fragile continuous devices.
>99%
Lifetime
c ontinuity of 
temperature 
measurement*
Reliability 
guarantee
>15%
a verage reduction 
in cost*
*versus Accumetrix
®
 Platinum-Rhodium systems
£26.1 m
R&D spend in 2014
Critical innovation 
in temperature 
measurement for 
continuous casting 
of steel
Product innovation
Several of our local development laboratories 
are equipped with facilities for physical 
and computational fluid dynamics studies, 
together with capabilities allowing our 
experienced scientists and engineers to 
analyse the complex interactions between 
refractory materials and molten metals 
existing in our customers’ operations. 
These laboratories work hand-in-hand with 
our global network of 16 research centres to 
stay constantly updated with information on  
the latest technological developments.
Next generation product development 
Our 16 research centres focus on 
development of the next generation of 
products and technologies in partnership  
with strategic customers and leading 
universities. These laboratories are staffed 
with scientists and engineers possessing 
advanced degrees in various disciplines 
and are equipped with highly specialised 
equipment. See case study below 
We regularly conduct customer seminars and 
training sessions, to ensure that the full range 
of Vesuvius products and solutions are known 
and properly used. 
New global innovation hub In December, 
we opened our new Global Foundry R&D 
Centre in Enschede, Netherlands. This facility 
will play a central role in strengthening the 
technology leadership position of our Foundry 
business. The centre is equipped with the 
latest technologies for process simulation and 
modelling, advanced analytical capabilities, 
and pilot scale foundry processes for iron, 
steel, and aluminium processing. These 
capabilities will bring the Foundry R&D 
team closer to our customers, as we will be 
better able to simulate their processes and 
demonstrate the uniqueness of our products 
and technologies. The laboratory in Enschede 
will serve as the hub in a centre of excellence 
model for R&D, coordinating the research and 
development activities in our other Foundry 
R&D centres located in Pittsburgh (USA), 
Feignies (France), and Tamworth (UK). 
Global centres of excellence In 2014, we 
also acquired the site and completed the 
design process for a state-of-the-art global 
centre of excellence for steelmaking and 
foundry refractories, located in Pittsburgh 
(USA). We expect to relocate from the existing 
Pittsburgh-based facility in 2016. We also 
progressed on our planning for a global 
centre of excellence of Advanced Refractories 
in Visakhapatnam (Vizag),India.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 16 Our new Global R&D centre in  
Enschede, Netherlands 
Equipped with the latest development of 
technologies, this centre is fundamental to 
maintaining our technology leadership.
The benefits 
Accuoptix™ combines the 
proven advantages of continuous 
temperature measurement in 
terms of a reliable and consistent 
data stream, with a reduced need 
for operator interaction. It also 
eliminates the problem of gradual 
deterioration in performance and 
ultimate failure of the thermocouple 
experienced with the existing 
Platinum-Rhodium systems. The 
cost effective system – together 
with other Vesuvius developments 
Patented quick fixing
– creates a toolbox of sensors and 
instrumentation to improve caster 
process control, and deliver yield 
and quality improvements for the 
steel producer. Being remotely 
installed, and designed for manual, 
manipulator or robotic handling,  
the optical sensor is not submerged 
into the molten steel and is therefore 
not destroyed in case of accidental 
sheath breakage. It provides a 
continuous, reliable and cost 
effective temperature data stream 
for optimum process control.
Optical lens
Heat shield
VISO
Tm
 protection tube
manipulator arm
Tube holder
margin improvement
Since demerger, we have initiated plans to 
restore our margins towards their historic 
highs. In this second year of implementation, 
significant progress was made in reducing 
operating costs and refocusing the business 
towards high-margin, differentiated  
offerings that create outstanding value for  
our customers. Underlying Group trading  
margin improved by 71 basis points in 
2014 and by 179 basis points since 2012, 
notwithstanding the unfavourable exchange 
rates that impacted most of the countries 
where Vesuvius enjoys its highest margins. 
This outcome is the result of self-help 
initiatives applied in many of our 65 
manufacturing sites, and the application 
of the lean manufacturing concept in our 
processes, together with a constant focus  
on our core activities.
Quality and reliability
Reliability in quality and delivery is vital to our 
customers as they use Vesuvius’ products in 
critical areas of their own processes. The level 
of risk attached to a catastrophic failure is 
often such that, for people and equipment, 
no compromise can be accepted. Reliability 
therefore is a primary commitment of Vesuvius. 
We strive to deliver reliability and consistency 
through best-in-class quality management 
in our 65 production sites and 107 major 
customer locations. 
Quality policy Our quality policy clearly 
defines the commitments and responsibilities 
which apply to all aspects of the business. 
Reliable quality is intrinsic to our business 
model, and is part of our Vesuvius brand 
equity. Recognising this fundamental part of 
our promise to customers, over the past two 
years, we have renewed our focus on quality, 
improving customer relationships and adding 
to operating efficiency. Since the inception 
of our Turbo.Q quality initiative two years 
ago we have reduced the number of repeat 
customer complaints by a factor of three.  
See case study on p18  
Quality plan features Vesuvius’ 8D 
methodology to resolve customer, supplier 
and internal issues is built upon the eight 
disciplines we need to follow in order to 
eliminate problems permanently. It is focused 
on determining the root cause, implementing 
effective corrective actions and preventing 
repeat issues.
17
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
We have committed to becoming a true 
learning organisation. Every problem is 
welcomed as an opportunity for improvement 
where lessons learned are analysed and 
shared in order to leverage the benefits  
across the Group.
We are applying lean principles to improve 
shop floor quality, responsiveness, 
and flexibility. These principles drive 
implementation of:
•  Strong control plans to detect any defects  
as close as possible to their point of 
occurrence in order to facilitate immediate 
problem solving
•    Accelerated product flow to allow  
quicker detection of issues and fewer 
rejects/less rework
•   Standardised production methods to ensure 
excellent quality. See case study below  
Lean programme
Cost leadership and margin improvement 
are two of our strategic priorities, and in a 
business where we need to manage the 
challenges presented by the volatility in  
our end-markets, a focus on process 
efficiency and quality is fundamental.  
See case study opposite 
From 201 1 to 2014, our Quality 
Breakthrough initiative has allowed us  
to divide by three the percentage of  
repeats out of our total number of  
customer complaints. 
2014 focus:
•  Spreading the Quality Breakthrough 
practices and tools 
•  Increasing our problem solving capabilities 
•  Improving the quality of our raw materials.
To spread the Quality Breakthrough 
practices and tools, we took 325 managers 
through the two-day Turbo.Q training in 
28 sessions in 2014. This comes on top of 
the 93 senior managers – including Group 
Executive Committee members – who had 
been trained in 2013. Further sessions were 
organised in plants in local language.
We develop our problem solving capabilities 
through training and coaching in the correct 
use of our 8D-Practical Problem Solving 
methodology. In 2014 we solved 870 
problems using this technique, an increase  
of 50%. We also took an additional 
162 people through our four-day 8D-PPS 
training module, which brings the total 
number of people trained to 978.
Vesuvius is improving the quality of raw 
materials by better Supplier Corrective 
Action Request management, developing 
incoming inspection at all manufacturing 
sites, qualifying suppliers through supplier 
assessments and improving the quality of 
our raw material specifications. Resources 
were added in Europe and China in 2014 to 
focus specifically on supplier assessments. 
This allowed us to bring the number of 
assessments performed from 65 in 2013  
to 204 in 2014.
Quality 
breakthrough
Quality and reliability
Our Lean Programme started in 2008 with 
the belief that:
•  Standardisation of tasks and processes is the 
cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity, 
and continuous improvement
•  Employee motivation and customer 
satisfaction are critical foundations for  
the long-term success of the Group
•  Improving information flow is instrumental 
to guarantee fast and effective cross-
functional processes.
Work on lean initiatives has intensified 
in 2014 The Lean Network has been 
reinforced with new Lean engineers identified 
in all our major sites. Each of these individuals 
has participated in a comprehensive induction 
programme to bring them up to the highest 
standard of excellence.
Our Lean engineers implement Lean tools and 
techniques across all Vesuvius facilities. They 
deliver training and coaching to operations 
managers, group leaders and team leaders 
who, in turn, introduce Lean tools into their 
day-to-day activities to help achieve targets 
and improve the current situation. 
The Group has developed a three-day 
Standardised Work workshop to continue  
the deployment of Lean practices, with 
a special emphasis on safety, quality and 
productivity improvement.
In total, more than 20 successful workshops 
were held during 2014, providing significant 
results in terms of safety, productivity 
increases and lead time reductions. These 
workshops have involved more than 240 
participants from a wide cross-section of  
sites in 12 different countries.
What is Lean? 
Lean is all about creating more value 
for customers using less energy. Lean 
highlights seven waste areas that should 
be minimized... 
Non-
quality
Over-
production
Waiting
Transport Inventory motion Excess-
processing
N o w
t i m e
LEARN 
FROM EACH PROBLEM
DON’T LET 
OUR CUSTOMERS 
DOWN
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 18 5S housekeeping tool 5S is a key tool to reinforce 
the importance of operating in a safe environment 
for all employees. It also contributes to reducing 
work in progress and unnecessary movement 
– increasing efficiency, improving production 
flow and ensuring quality. 5S is based on the 
five important steps to improve cleanliness and 
workplace ownership, illustrated here.
Separate Sort Shine Standardise Sustain
22%
Increase in 
productivity
90%
Reduction in 
stoppages
Our solution 
Following the Group Standardised Work training 
deployed in 2014, the Trinec team applied Lean 
principles to the workplace, reorganising the two 
workstations to reduce risk, remove unnecessary 
movement and improve ergonomics. 
The benefits 
These Lean working practices have reduced 
stoppage time to change patterns by nine 
minutes (a 90% reduction), increasing 
productivity by 22% to 215 parts per shift.  
The site is now able to meet the increasing 
demands of its customers with the same  
number of employees.
The challenge 
In our Czech facility of Trinec, a production cell 
dedicated to insulating sleeve application, was 
facing an increase in work volume and price 
pressure from customers. The cell struggled to 
meet the growing demand in production as it was 
only able to produce 20 parts every 40 minutes, 
partly due to a required stoppage of ten minutes  
at the end of each pattern. Capacity was limited  
to 176 parts per shift. 
Productivity 
improved by 
22% applying 
Lean principles 
Lean Programme
19
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
c ontinuous improvement In 2015, we 
will maintain our focus on the deployment of 
Lean practices with a continuing emphasis on: 
•  5S to reinforce the ownership of the work 
environment by workers and continue to 
increase safety
•  Equipment efficiency and reliability 
improvement with a large Total Productive 
Maintenance programme. The additional 
capacity generated by this initiative will 
allow us to reduce our cost of production 
and allocate saved capital expenditure to 
new Lean flexible automated equipment  
for key products
•  Equipment flexibility improvement with the 
continuing implementation of the Single 
Minute Exchange of Die production method
•  A focus on batch reduction planning using 
Kanban, a scheduling system for just-in-time 
production to support inventory reduction
•  Labour efficiency through the reinforcement 
of initiatives to standardise work, using 
the Kaizen continuous improvement 
framework.
Portfolio management and capital 
allocation
After the divestments undertaken over the 
last two years in the Advanced Refractories 
business in order to concentrate on the higher 
margin specialty segment, and the disposal 
of our Precious Metals Processing division in 
2013, we initiated the development of a new 
business in data capture for the steel and 
foundry industries which is the starting point 
for our strategic focus on Technical Services. 
Process Metrix, a Californian company 
providing laser measurement of refractory 
wear in liquid steel vessels was acquired 
in August, and ECIL Met Tec, a Brazilian 
company involved in the measurement of 
temperature and chemistry of steel was 
acquired in October. We will continue 
to pursue these types of acquisitions to 
reinforce our capability to provide engineered 
services that allow our customers greater 
management and control over their 
processes. 
Our investment spend in 2014 amounted  
to £76.5m, out of which £53. 1m was spent 
on plant and equipment and £23.4m  
on acquisitions. 
Efforts to continue to reduce working capital 
during the year were affected by a general 
drift of payment terms from our customers, 
predominantly in China, passing on the 
financial constraints encountered in the steel 
and foundry industries. This increase was 
partly compensated for by a reduction in our 
inventory days across all of our businesses. 
Overall our net debt increased slightly, driven 
by our acquisition strategy. 
 Read our Financial review on p26-31 
Health and safety
Safety remains our primary operating priority 
which we take as a key indicator of our 
performance. The Safety Breakthrough plan, 
initiated in 2008, delivered a considerable 
reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (“LTIFR”), from 9.8 to 1.8 in 2012. In 
201 1, a renewed action plan called Turbo.S 
was developed with the objective of reaching 
a further level of improvement in our LTIFR. 
However, 2014 saw this improving trend 
continue to plateau and we have not yet been 
able to capture the benefits of this additional 
Group-wide programme of internal safety 
audits and improvement opportunities  
with permanent actions now operating in  
our facilities. 
As we increase our presence at our customer 
sites, our employees are exposed to harsh 
environments in locations where the 
complexity of risk management is increased. 
We continue to focus on health and safety  
as a fundamental responsibility. 
 Read more about Safety on p46-48 
Sustainability
We are committed to the positive integration 
of our site activities into local communities 
and to contributing proactively to the 
protection of the environment. During 2014, 
we reduced our global consumption of 
energy and our emissions of CO
2
. Moreover 
we continue to develop solutions for our 
customers to help them reduce substantially 
their waste, their energy consumption and 
their CO
2
 emissions. See case study opposite 
management focus
Towards the end of the year we undertook 
a change in the leadership of several of 
our product lines. Glenn Cowie who had 
substantially improved the performance 
of Advanced Refractories, took over the 
Foundry division and Tanmay Ganguly, 
previously Managing Director of Vesuvius 
India Limited and Vice President for Vesuvius’ 
Steel division activities in India and South East 
Asia, replaced Glenn as President Advanced 
Refractories. Luis Reyes, previously Vice 
President Flow Control North America, was 
appointed President Technical Services with 
a mandate to drive growth in this important 
new area and develop our recently acquired 
businesses. Both Tanmay and Luis have joined 
Glenn on the Group Executive Committee in 
their new roles. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 20 Our overall management focus is now on 
building and implementing an excellence 
plan in the management of our operations. 
This will involve the entire population of our 
employees around six key areas: customers, 
innovation, strategy, business support, supply 
chain agility and talent management. We are 
setting precise roadmaps in each of these 
areas to reach the status of a truly best-in-
class company.
This process will help us to deliver our strategy 
for growth, promote permanent ongoing 
innovation, higher efficiency and the success 
of our new technical services initiative. 
Outlook
While the global economic backdrop remains 
uncertain in our main markets, we expect the 
underlying trading environment in the current 
year to be broadly similar to that experienced 
in 2014. We are confident we will be able to 
continue to drive improvement in our trading 
margins and working capital performance 
through self-help actions, and we will focus 
on the acquisition of bolt-on companies to 
reinforce our growth opportunities. We will 
do this whilst retaining a strong balance sheet 
in order to give us financial flexibility.
François Wanecq, Chief Executive  
3 March 2015
60% 2%
Reduction in rejection 
rates
Energy reduction
25%
a pplication rate increase
The challenge 
An automotive foundry in Western India 
– producing 36,000 MT/A brake discs for 
global car manufacturers – was experiencing 
inconsistencies in the quality and performance 
of their cast products, resulting in high rejection 
rates of 1 in 20 (5%). Our customer reported  
that their incumbent supplier had not offered  
a solution to address this issue.
Our solution 
Working closely with the customer, our technical 
and sales teams developed a bespoke solution 
which included the Foseco Metal Stream 
Inoculation system, Foseco Inoculation product 
technology and our thermal analysis systems – 
ITACA – to optimise application rates.
The benefits 
Our bespoke toolkit delivered measurable 
improvements in quality and margins, as well 
as reducing the environmental impact. Cast 
products have become much more consistent, 
and rejection rates have been reduced by 60% 
(from 1 in 20 to 1 in 50). Lower rejection rates 
have also resulted in fewer castings to re-melt, 
resulting in 2% less energy consumed, and lower 
CO
2
 emissions. 
Reduce rejection rates and 
CO
2 
emissions in an Indian 
automotive foundry
Sustainability impact
21
OUR BUSINESS Risk management
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board continually monitors and 
manages the mix of opportunities 
and risks, both internal and 
external, which could significantly 
impact the long-term performance 
of the Group.
Board monitoring
Vesuvius operates a continuous process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks. Regular reports are made to 
the Board on the process of how these are 
being managed. Thus, the Board exercises 
its ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk 
management, by analysing any major issues 
that have arisen during the year, considering 
how those risks have changed over time,  
and assessing whether they are being 
effectively managed.
Principal risks
The risks identified below are those the Board 
considers to be the most relevant to the 
Group in relation to their potential impact on 
achievement of its strategic objectives. All of 
the risks set out below could materially affect 
the Group, its businesses, future operations 
and financial condition and could cause actual 
results to differ materially from expected or 
historical results. The risks below are not the 
only ones that the Group will face. Some risks 
are not yet known and some currently not 
deemed to be material could later become so.
Risk Potential impact mitigation/management
Demand
volatility
Unplanned drop in demand  
and revenue
Failure of one or more customers 
leading to debtor bankruptcy
Prudent balance sheet management to maintain robust financial position
Strong internal reporting and monitoring of external data to identify 
economic trends
Flexible cost base to react quickly to end-market conditions
No single customer exceeds 10% of revenue
Robust credit control processes
Protectionism  
Loss of business from enforced 
preference of local suppliers
Imposition of increased import 
duties
Increased tax burden or changes 
to rules and enforcement
Local competitors promoted 
overseas by government-to-
government action
Local manufacturing operations in 26 countries
Robust internal tax policies and strict transfer pricing rules
Strong internal control of inter-Company trading
Maintenance of quality and innovation leadership differentiating Vesuvius 
and mitigating government intervention in supplier selection
Product 
liability
c laims from third parties resulting 
from use of potentially hazardous 
materials
c ustomer claims and loss of business 
from product quality issues
Appropriate insurance cover obtained
Active monitoring of HSE issues
Stringent quality control standards systematically implemented in manufacturing
Experienced legal team used to negotiating appropriate customer agreements
Regulatory 
compliance
Financial loss from failure to comply 
with appropriate regulations
Business disruption from 
investigations
Reputational damage
Widely disseminated Code of Conduct and supporting policies which highlight 
the Group’s ethical approach to business
Speak-up procedure implemented across the Group
Ongoing training and review of policy effectiveness
Protection 
of leading 
technologies
Loss of business through new 
technology developed by others
Failure to adapt solutions to meet 
changing customer needs
Revenue lost through ineffective 
protection of intellectual property
Market-leading research and development team with significant investment 
in R&D, and use of structured development methodologies
Patent protection sought when new developments are made
Stringent defence of patents and other intellectual property
Control of access to intellectual property through IT controls and physical security
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 22 Risk management
Risks are actively managed in order to 
mitigate exposure and, where cost effective, 
the risk is transferred to insurers. We have 
built a business structure that gives protection 
against the principal risks we face with 
diversified currencies, a widespread  
customer base, local production matching  
the diversity of our markets and intensive 
training of our employees.
c hanges to our risks in 2014
The principal risks identified by the Group 
have remained relatively stable. In 2014, we 
focused on the fact that our reputation for 
quality is fundamental to our success – given 
the high value, mission critical nature of our 
product offering. Consequently, we have 
included loss of business reputation in the 
2014 assessment of principal risks. Conversely, 
having identified cyber security as a key risk 
in 2013, our ongoing assessment of Vesuvius’ 
exposure in this area has led us to remove this 
from our list of principal risks – whilst noting 
that it remains, as for all companies, an area 
for our ongoing attention.
Risk Potential impact mitigation/management
Financial 
uncertainty
Inability to raise sufficient capital 
to fund growth of business
Reduction in earnings from 
increased interest charges
Weakness in foreign currencies 
leading to reduced profitability
Long-term capital structure planning to secure availability of capital at 
acceptable costs
Substantial proportion of debt capital secured at fixed rates of interest
International presence reduces the Group’s reliance on any one currency
Hedging of transactional foreign exchange exposure when necessary
Alignment of cost structure with revenue where possible
The Group adopted USD as the functional currency for its operations in some 
countries to reduce further FX translational risk
Loss of a  
major site
Loss of revenue resulting from 
inability to supply customers on 
loss of production facilities
Diversified manufacturing footprint with some 65 facilities across 26 countries
Maintenance of excess capacity to allow plants to meet peak demands
Ability to  
source critical 
raw materials
manufacturing interruption from 
failure of a key supplier, or the loss 
of availability of a source of critical 
raw materials
Strategic stocks of certain materials are retained
Number of single-sourced materials reduced through expanding supplier base
Development of new products and research on substitution of raw materials
Retention  
of staff
Insufficient high quality staff to run 
base business and generate growth 
through innovation
a vailability of suitable talent in  
the pipeline to offer sufficient 
internal succession options for  
senior positions including the  
Group Executive c ommittee  
and Executive Directors
Contacts with universities to identify and develop talent
Internal programme to attract and develop high potential staff from emerging 
markets through cross-border exchange programmes
Extensive internal courses run by experienced staff to transfer knowledge 
in a structured manner
Building career trajectories for technical staff to show potential and 
reduce attrition
Appointment of Group Talent Management Director to drive improved 
assessment of internal talent at the mid and senior management levels, 
identifying gaps and implementing development programmes to provide  
suitable succession options
Loss of business 
reputation
Product or application failures not 
promptly addressed may create  
an adverse financial impact and 
damage our reputation as a 
technological leader
Incident at customer plant resulting 
in significant health and safety 
breach and/or customer downtime
Active quality management programme in place with full root cause analysis 
for customer complaints and follow-up
Stringent product qualification process in place for raw materials
Diversified manufacturing footprint with some 65 facilities across 26 countries
Active monitoring of customers’ improvement requests
Appropriate insurance cover obtained 
23
OUR BUSINESS 24 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance In this section 
Our Performance
Section T wo
2
26 Financial review
32 Key performance indicators
34 Operating review: Steel division
39 Operating review: Foundry division
Our perf Orma nce 25 Financial review
Revenue £bn
£1.44bn
-4.4%
Trading profit £m
£142.8m
+2.0%
“ We delivered a strong performance 
which saw both margins and 
return on assets improving, 
demonstrating our ability to  
deliver underlying growth whilst 
exercising good capital discipline. ”
Basis of preparation 
See Note 2 of the Financial statements on page 
108. All references in this financial review are to 
Headline performance unless stated otherwise.
c hris O’Shea Chief Financial Officer
Headline EPS pence
33.4p
+4.7%
Return on sales %
9.9%
+62bps
Reported
+3.5%
Underlying
Reported
+ 11.6%
Underlying
+15.9%
Underlying
+71bps
Underlying
Reported Reported
Introduction
Our financial strategy is designed to support 
the delivery of the corporate strategy 
outlined by the Chairman in his statement, 
and by the Chief Executive on pages 13-14. 
We aim to ensure the Group has access to 
sufficient funds at attractive terms to invest 
in interesting growth opportunities, provide 
superior returns to our shareholders and 
weather any downturns in our end-markets. 
With £343.5m of available committed funds 
at the end of the year, our balance sheet is 
strong and we are well-positioned to support 
the business in the delivery of our growth 
opportunities over the medium and long term 
whilst concurrently improving returns.
2014 performance overview
Following the improvements to our operating 
performance in 2013, and the restructuring 
of our portfolio, 2014 was another good year, 
with margins improving further. Revenue 
grew, on an underlying basis, by 3.5% to 
£1,444 million, with trading profit growing 
by 1 1.6% on the same basis. As a result, our 
trading margins improved to 9.9% in 2014, 
and our earnings per share were 33.4 pence, 
an underlying increase of 15.9% on 2013.  
On a regional basis, underlying revenue 
growth was more pronounced in Asia (6.8%) 
and the Americas (4.4%) than in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa (1.2%). 
As a global business, we are exposed 
to a significant number of differing 
macroeconomic trends; as a supplier to  
two principal industries, steel and foundry, 
which have a large number of end-markets, 
we are exposed to volatility in demand.  
As outlined in the principal risks section on 
pages 22 and 23, this is a significant concern 
to us, and influences how we structure 
and run our business. In order to mitigate 
the impact of this volatility, we maintain a 
broad global portfolio which provides some 
natural balance to local and regional demand 
fluctuations. In addition we are constantly 
striving to increase our operational and 
financial flexibility from an already strong 
position to allow us to react quickly, and 
decisively, to variations in end-markets. Our 
improved results in 2014, against a backdrop 
of muted global demand and significant 
regional variation demonstrates the balance 
we have within our portfolio, the flexibility in 
our cost base, and our willingness and ability 
to act quickly. 
Dividend
In line with the dividend policy in place since 
2012, the Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 1 1. 125 pence per share to be 
paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 10 April 2015. When added to the 
2014 interim dividend of 5 pence per share 
paid on 26 September 2014, this represents 
an increase of 7 .5% on the 2013 full year 
dividend of 15 pence per share. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 26 It remains the Board’s intention to deliver 
long-term dividend growth, provided this is 
supported by underlying earnings, cash flows, 
capital expenditure requirements and the 
prevailing market outlook.
Regular dividend growth pence
2014 16.125
2013 15.000
2012 14.250
Key Performance Indicators
The Group used the same ten key 
performance indicators in 2014 as in 2013. 
These are detailed on pages 32 and 33. 
Of these, three are non-financial with the 
remaining seven discussed in some more 
detail below, together with the KPI on 
Research & Development expenditure.
Objective: Deliver growth over  
the long term
KPI: Research & Development spend 
We pride ourselves on providing the most 
advanced technologies to our customers. 
In order to maintain our market leadership, 
and enlarge the addressable market, thus 
allowing us to grow revenue, we aim to invest 
a substantial proportion of our revenue in 
research and development (R&D) activity. 
During 2014, we spent £26. 1m on R&D 
activities, an increase of 2.8% over 2013 on 
a constant currency basis. This represented 
1.8% of our revenue. In addition we 
invested £4.8m on new R&D facilities in the 
Netherlands (Foundry division) where our 
new facility opened in December 2014, and 
in the USA (Steel division) on the purchase of 
a new brownfield site which we aim to open 
in 2016. 
We will continue to invest in such facilities in 
the coming years and we expect over time to 
increase our R&D spend as a percentage of 
sales to between 2% and 2.5% of revenue.
R&D spend* £m
2014 26.1
2013 25.4
2012 23.7
* Constant 2014 currency
KPI: Underlying revenue growth We look 
at underlying (or organic) movements in our 
results to establish meaningful period-on-
period comparisons. Underlying movements 
are calculated by:
•  Restating the previous period’s results at the 
same foreign exchange (FX) rates used in 
the current period
•  Removing the results of disposed businesses 
in both the current and prior years
•  Removing the results of businesses acquired 
in the current year
•  Assuming acquisitions made in the prior 
year were made on the first day of  
that period.
Accordingly, to measure underlying growth  
in our 2014 revenue we have:
•  Retranslated 2013 results at the FX rates 
used in calculating the 2014 results
•  Removed the results of businesses disposed 
in 2013 (the German brick manufacturing 
business VGT Dyko and our construction 
business in Canada)
•  Removed the results of businesses acquired 
in 2014 (ECIL Met Tec in Brazil and Process 
Metrix in the USA).
Reported revenue in 2013 was £1,510.5m. 
Retranslating this at 2014 FX rates reduces 
this to £1,405.9m, and removing the results 
of disposed businesses further reduces this 
to £1,391.9m. Reported revenue in 2014 was 
£1,444.4m; excluding the results of acquired 
businesses reduces this to £1,440.9m. 
Accordingly, revenue grew, on an underlying 
basis, by £49m (3.5%) from 2013 to 2014;  
this underlying growth was more pronounced 
in the Steel division, where revenues grew 
by 4.4%, than in the Foundry division, 
where underlying growth was 1.8%. This 
demonstrates the positive impact of the 
portfolio reshaping on the Group following 
underlying revenue declines in 2013  
and 2012.
Underlying revenue growth %
2014 3.5
2013 (0.8)
2012 (4.3)
27
Our perf Orma nce Financial review continued
Regionally, underlying growth was more 
pronounced in Asia (6.8%) and the Americas 
(4.4%) than in EMEA where revenue grew 
by 1.2% on an underlying basis. Growth 
in Asia was driven by strong growth in the 
Steel division (13. 1 %), reflecting increased 
penetration of our solutions across the 
region, most notably in South Korea and 
Thailand; Foundry revenues in Asia fell by 
1. 1 % on an underlying basis. In the Americas, 
once again the Steel division drove the 
Group’s underlying growth, with revenues 
up 5.2% against underlying growth in the 
Foundry division of 1.8%. In EMEA, flat 
underlying revenues in the Steel division were 
compensated by underlying growth of 3.8% 
in the Foundry division, with good underlying 
revenue growth in Spain, France and Central 
and Eastern Europe. 
Objective: Deliver attractive profitability
KPI: Trading profit and return on sales 
The underlying trading performance of the 
Group is measured both by the amount of 
trading profit in absolute terms and as a 
percentage of sales (also known as return 
on sales or RoS). Trading profit of £142.8m 
was an increase of £2.8m (2%) on 2013; on 
an underlying basis, trading profit increased 
by £14.8m (1 1.6%). RoS was 9.3% in 2013; 
retranslating this at 2014 FX rates, and 
removing the results of disposed businesses 
reduces that to 9. 16%; RoS in 2014 was 
9.89%; removing the results of businesses 
acquired reduces this to 9.87%. Accordingly, 
RoS has increased, on an underlying basis,  
by 71 basis points (bps) in 2014.
In the Steel division, trading profit increased 
by £7 .7m (8.7%) on 2013; on an underlying 
basis, trading profit increased by £13.9m 
(17 . 1 %). RoS increased by 106 bps on an 
underlying basis to 9.9% in 2014.
In the Foundry division, trading profit 
decreased by £4.9m (9.5%) on 2013; on an 
underlying basis, trading profit increased by 
£0.8m (1.8%). RoS remained at 10%, flat  
on 2013 on an underlying basis.
Return on sales* %
2014 9.9
2013 9.2
2012 8.1
* Constant 2014 currency
KPI: Headline PBT and EPS Headline profit 
before tax (PBT) and earnings per share 
(EPS) are used to measure the underlying 
financial performance of the Group. The main 
difference between trading profit and PBT is 
net finance costs.
Net finance costs of £16.4m were £0.9m 
below 2013, primarily driven by lower 
borrowing costs. When we borrow money, 
we incur up front cash arrangement fees. 
Accounting standards require us initially to 
capitalise those fees on the balance sheet and 
subsequently charge the income statement 
over the expected life of the facility. At the 
date of the 2013 Annual report we expected 
to replace our £425m revolving credit facility 
during 2014 to take advantage of favourable 
debt market conditions, and therefore the 
fees associated for that facility were charged 
to the income statement over the period 
to 30 June 2014. During 2014 it became 
apparent to us that the debt market would 
remain favourable for borrowers throughout 
2014 and into 2015, and therefore we did not 
renew that facility during the year. 
As a result, we had only one half of a normal 
income statement charge for arrangement 
fees in 2014 as opposed to a full year’s charge 
in 2013. The effect of this was to reduce the 
income statement charge for borrowing costs 
by £0.8m.
Headline earnings per share* pence
2014 33.4
2013 31.9
2012 27.0
* A s r e p o r t ed
Objective: Ensure capital is  
deployed efficiently
KPI: Free cash flow and working capital 
As well as ensuring that the Company 
generates sufficient profits, it is important 
that those profits are turned into cash 
promptly to allow the Company to invest in 
growth opportunities and make cash returns 
to shareholders. As a business grows, it will 
require more working capital. Accordingly, 
we measure working capital both in terms 
of actual cash flow movements, and as a 
percentage of sales revenue. Trade working 
capital as a percentage of sales in 2014 
was 24.8%, moderately up on the level of 
24.7% seen in 2013. Both these numbers are 
measured on a 12-month moving average 
basis to ensure sustainable improvements.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 28 Operating cash flow was £103.4m, down 
£47 .0m from £150.4m in 2013. This 
represented a cash conversion ratio of 72%, 
a reduction from the level seen in 2013 
of 107%. This reduction in cash flow was 
primarily driven by:
•  An increase in cash capital expenditure of 
£6.8m from £46.3m in 2013 to £53. 1m 
in 2014
•  An increase of £10.2m in cash invested in 
trade working capital (including £4.8m 
due to the retirement of a debt factoring 
programme in Germany)
•  An increase of £16.6m in cash invested in 
non-trade working capital.
Offsetting this was an increase in trading 
profit before depreciation (also known as 
EBITDA) of £2.0m.
The £47 .0m reduction in operating cash flow 
translated into a smaller reduction of £35.7m 
in free cash flow from continuing operations 
to £59.2m in 2014. This difference is due to 
lower income taxes paid of £6.0m, lower cash 
cost of prior restructuring programmes of 
£4.5m, and the non recurrence of demerger 
related cash costs of £3.2m incurred in 2013; 
partially offset by lower dividends received 
from joint ventures (down by £0.7m to £0.6m) 
and higher dividends paid to the owners 
of minority stakes in non wholly owned 
subsidiaries, mainly in India.
KPI: Return on net assets (RONa ) RONA 
is a measure of capital efficiency – how well 
we use shareholder funds in our operations. 
We do not exclude the results of businesses 
acquired and disposed from this calculation 
as capital efficiency is an important 
consideration in our portfolio decisions. It is 
calculated by dividing trading profit plus our 
share of profits from joint ventures by our 
average operating assets (property, plant  
and equipment, and trade working capital). 
As with most of our KPIs, we measure 
these on a 12-month moving average 
basis at constant currency to ensure we 
drive sustained and sustainable underlying 
improvements. Our RONA for 2014 was 
25.5%, an increase of 130 basis points on 
2013 (24.2%); reflecting the fact that the  
rate of increase in trading and joint venture 
profits on a constant currency basis exceeded 
the rate of increase in net operating assets by 
a factor of almost three to one.
RONA moving average* %
2014 25.5
2013 24.2
2012 18.7
* Constant 2014 currency
Objective: maintain a strong  
financial position
KPI: Interest cover and net debt The 
Group’s debt facilities have financial covenants 
with specific limits on the ratios of net debt 
to EBITDA (maximum three times limit) and 
EBITDA to interest (minimum four times limit). 
These ratios are monitored regularly to ensure 
the Group has sufficient financing available 
to run the business and fund future growth. 
At the end of 2014, the net debt to EBITDA 
ratio was 1.48, a slight increase on the 2013 
position of 1.43; EBITDA covered net interest 
paid 13. 1 times; accordingly, the Group was 
well within its covenants.
Net debt £m
2014 268.3
2013 256.4
2012 295.3
At the end of 2014 we had £647 .4m of gross 
committed debt facilities (2013: £637 . 1m; 
2012: £578.8m), of which £343.5m was 
unutilised (2013: £328.6m; 2012: £157 .7m). 
Our net debt was £268.3m at the end of 
2014, an increase of £1 1.9m on 2013 (2012: 
£295.3m), reflecting the cash expenditure of 
£23.4m on the acquisitions of ECIL Met Tec 
and Process Metrix.
Unutilised committed 
debt facilities £m
2014 343.5
2013 328.6
2012 157.7
We regularly review our capital structure, 
and decided no new debt was required in 
2014. The largest part of our committed debt 
facilities is a £425m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility which expires in April 2016. 
Work is underway to replace that facility 
during 2015. Further information regarding 
the interest rates and maturities of our debt 
can be found in Note 28 on pages 134  
and 135.
29
Our perf Orma nce Financial risk factors
Following a detailed review of the risks facing 
the Group, it was apparent that there was 
no significant change from those which 
the Group faced in 2013 (and disclosed 
in the 2013 Annual report). Accordingly, 
there remain two main financial risk 
factors. Demand volatility is discussed in 
the introduction to this section on page 
26. In addition, we continue to face risks 
relating to FX, capital market, interest 
rate and inflation uncertainties. Despite 
the mitigations described on page 23, we 
operate in many countries and, as such, our 
reported results vary with FX rates. When 
sterling strengthens against a currency, our 
revenues and profits as reported in sterling are 
reduced; however, the underlying revenues 
and profits in the relevant local currency are 
unaffected. When measured against 2013, 
sterling strengthened against all of our trading 
currencies constraining the growth in our 
profits (our 2014 trading profit of £142.8m 
would have been £154.6m if the same FX 
rates used in 2013 had been used to translate 
our 2014 non-UK results into sterling). We 
continue to monitor this closely, and where 
possible seek to balance the currency of both 
our cost base and revenue base to minimise 
exposure. As with all international companies, 
and particularly ones like ours focused on 
growth in emerging markets, this continues 
to be an area of attention. Whilst the recent 
weakening of sterling against the US dollar 
and the Chinese renminbi will help reported 
results in 2015, this will be offset by further 
weakening of the euro, the Japanese yen, 
the Brazilian real, the Indian rupee and the 
South African rand.
Financial review continued
Other relevant financial information
Trading results – discontinued operations 
During 2014, we had no discontinued 
operations; in the comparative numbers for 
2013 the results of the former Precious Metals 
Processing division were included to the date 
of disposal (31 May 2013). 
As part of the demerger which gave rise to 
Vesuvius plc, we undertook to share equally 
the liability relating to court proceedings 
brought by MacDermid (an Alent plc 
competitor) arising out of corporate activity  
in 2006 relating to what is now Alent plc.  
This matter was settled out of court in 
February 2015, resulting in Vesuvius plc 
being required to pay US$10m as part of the 
settlement. This has been provided in the 
2014 income statement and the payment will 
be reflected in the 2015 cash flow statement.
Restructuring There were no separately 
reported restructuring charges in 2014. 
Expenses related to ongoing, non material 
restructuring activities to the extent incurred, 
were included in trading profit during the 
year; it is intended that this treatment will be 
followed in future years. The restructuring 
charge in 2013 of £3.9m principally comprised 
costs relating to the relocation of a Steel 
division production facility in Australia, the 
closure and relocation costs relating to  
two Foundry production sites in China,  
and some trailing costs relating to prior 
restructuring programmes.
Taxation The headline effective income 
tax rate for the year reduced to 26% (2013: 
26.5%). The income tax credit on separately 
reported items principally consists of non-
cash deferred tax movements relating to 
the amortisation of a deferred tax liability 
arising from the acquisition of Foseco plc in 
2008 (£4.0m; 2013: £7 .0m) and an increase 
in the deferred tax asset due to the forecast 
utilisation of US tax losses incurred in the prior 
year (£21.8m).  
We initially recognised a deferred tax asset of 
£29.2m in 2013 in respect of these US losses.  
However our confidence has increased 
regarding the future realisation of value for 
these losses, and at the end of 2014 we 
have increased the total deferred tax asset 
recognised to £54.0m.
c apital expenditure Capital expenditure in 
2014 of £53.5m (2013: £47 .5m) comprised 
£28.6m in the Steel division (2013: £28.6m) 
and £24.9m in the Foundry division (2013: 
£18.9m). This represented 3.7% of revenue 
(2013: 3.2%) and included expenditure 
of £2.4m on the acquisition of a site in 
Pittsburgh, USA for a new global R&D centre 
for the Steel division and a further £2.5m on 
the recently opened global R&D centre for the 
Foundry division in Enschede, Netherlands.
Pensions The majority of the pension plans 
we have open are defined contribution 
plans, where our only commitment is to 
make contributions into plans. During 2014 
we contributed £9.2m (2013: £10.9m) into 
those plans for employees, with this amount 
being charged to trading profit in our income 
statement in 2014. In addition to this we have 
a number of historical defined benefit plans, 
the majority of which are closed to further 
benefit accruals. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 30 However, we remain liable to provide 
members of those plans with a certain level 
of benefits upon retirement and as such, 
the risk under these plans remains mostly 
with Vesuvius. The net charge to the income 
statement in respect of those plans in 2014 
was £4. 1m (2013: £7 .8m) with £2.3m 
included in trading profit (2013: £6.0m) and 
£1.8m (2013: £1.8m) in net finance costs. 
The lower charge in 2014 reflects curtailment 
gains of £3.6m arising from the closure of 
the Netherlands defined benefit plan on 
31 December 2014.
The net deficit under those defined benefit 
plans at the end of December 2014 was 
£51. 1m, an increase of £3.2m on the net 
deficit of £47 .9m at the end of 2013. The 
three largest defined benefit plans are in the 
UK, Germany and the USA, with the USA  
and Germany plans showing deficits of 
£35.6m (2013: £23.3m) and £39.9m (2013: 
£32.6m) respectively; the UK plan, where  
we have insured almost two thirds of the 
future liabilities, shows a surplus of £48.8m 
(2013: £27 .4m).
Net deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension deﬁcit £m
2014 51.1
2013 47.9
2012 68.8
c orporate activity In 2014 we acquired 
two companies in line with our strategy 
to build a business in technical services as 
discussed by the Chief Executive on page 
14. The combined consideration for these 
businesses is up to £29.6m: US$1 1.7m (£7 . 1m) 
for Process Metrix and BRL89m (£22.5m) for 
ECIL Met Tec. 
For Process Metrix, US$7 .7m was payable 
on completion of the acquisition with the 
remaining US$4m deferred for a period 
of up to five years (US$2m in equal annual 
instalments and US$2m on the achievement 
of certain specified performance-related 
milestones). For ECIL Met Tec, BRL79m 
was paid on completion; a further BRL5m 
is payable upon the completion of the 
subdivision of property and subsequent 
transfer to Vesuvius (expected in 2015), with 
the remaining BRL5m payable on the expiry  
of certain warranties.
Revenue of £3.6m and trading profit of 
£0.5m was included in the 2014 results 
relating to these acquired businesses. Had 
these businesses been acquired on 1 January 
2014, a further £19.2m of revenue and £3. 1m 
of trading profit would have been recognised. 
The growth in revenue and profits resulting 
from these acquisitions was excluded from 
the calculation of underlying growth. The 
results of both of these acquisitions are 
accounted for in the Steel division.
Late in the year we approached the Board 
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc with a 
view to merging our companies – a step 
we believed would have created a global 
leader in advanced ceramics technology. 
As announced, this approach was rejected 
by Morgan. Costs associated with this, and 
all other merger, acquisitions and disposal 
activities were included within trading profit 
in 2014.
Further information on the accounting for 
these acquisitions can be found in Note 22  
on page 128.
In 2013 we disposed of our German brick 
manufacturing business VGT Dyko and 
our Canadian construction and installation 
business, both in the Steel division, and our 
European Precious Metals division for a 
combined cash consideration of £44. 1m, the 
latter being accounted for as discontinued 
operations in 2013. The net book gain on 
those disposals and discontinued operations 
was £30. 1m in 2013. During 2014 there were 
no discontinued operations and no businesses 
were disposed of, although we did sell some 
minor property, plant and equipment for 
combined proceeds of £2.0m, generating a 
book gain of £0.8m. In addition we wrote 
down our minority investment in an Italian 
research company generating a loss of £0.4m.
c hris O’Shea, Chief Financial Officer 
3 March 2015
31
Our perf Orma nce Key Performance Indicators
Deliver  
sustainable
returns
Maintain 
strong cash 
position
Trading profit and 
return on sales 
Free cash flow and 
average working 
capital to sales ratio
Interest cover ratio 
and ratio of net debt 
to EBITDa
Profit before tax 
Used to assess the trading 
performance of Group businesses
Free cash flow is used to assess the underlying  
cash generation of the Group. One of the factors 
driving the generation of free cash flow is the 
average working capital to sales ratio, which 
indicates the level of working capital used in  
the business
Both ratios are used to assess the financial 
position of the Group and its ability to fund 
future growth
Used to assess the financial performance 
capacity of the Group as a whole
Financial KPIs
Deliver 
growth
Underlying 
revenue growth
Provides an important indicator of organic 
(like-for-like) growth of Group businesses 
between reporting periods. This measure 
eliminates the impact of exchange rates, 
acquisitions, disposals and significant 
business closures
Objective KPI Purpose Performance
Interest cover Net debt to EBITDa
Return on net assets 
(RONa )
Used to assess the financial 
performance of the Group
13.1x 1.48x
Trading proﬁt £m
2014 142.8
2013 140.0
2012 131.3
Underlying revenue growth %
2014 3.5
2013 (0.8)
2012 (4.3)
Return on net assets (RONA) %
2014 25.5
2013 24.4
2012 19.5
Proﬁt before tax £m
2014 111.2
2013 104.1
2012 17.2
Free cash ﬂow £m
2014 59.2
2013 94.9
2012 54.2
Return on sales %
2014 9.9
2013 9.3
2012 8.5
Headline EPS pence
2014 33.4
2013 31.9
2012 27.0
Average working capital to sales %
2014 24.8
2013 24.7
2012 26.6
Headline earnings 
per share 
Used to assess the earnings performance 
capacity of the Group as a whole
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 32 Zero work- 
related 
injury and 
illness
Maintain 
strong 
innovation 
pipeline
Reduce 
energy use 
and carbon
emissions
Non-financial KPIs
KPI monitoring
Reduce injuries
R&D spend
Total energy 
consumption
* Work-related illness or injuries which resulted in 
an employee being absent for at least one day 
per million hours worked.
*Constant 2014 currency.
Delivery of value to 
shareholders is linked to 
remuneration through the 
Vesuvius Share Plan, which 
links the vesting of 50%  
of each award to total 
shareholder return
EPS is linked to remuneration 
as a measure used in annual 
incentive awards and the 
Vesuvius Share Plan
Working capital performance 
is linked to remuneration 
through the working capital 
“kicker” applied to annual 
incentive awards 
Objective
Building a holistic management perspective
KPI Performance c ommentary
Gas use Electricity
-4.36% +0.19%
  Read more 
on p89
  Read more 
on p88
  Read more 
on p87
Read more about Remuneration on p75-93
Read more about Governance on p56-97
Read more about Risk management on p22 and 23
Link to remuneration 
Our Board and management regularly monitor both financial and 
non-financial performance indicators to measure performance 
against strategic objectives. The Board reviews this as part of its 
governance and risk management processes.
Lost time injury frequency rate*
2014 1.8
2013 1.8
2012 1.8
Total R&D spend* £m
2014 26.1
2013 25.4
2012 23.7
33
Our perf Orma nce Operating review 
Steel division
Steel revenue £m
£981.4m
-3.5%
Steel trading profit £m
£96.4m
+8.5%
Steel return on sales %
9.8%
+109bps
2014 981.4
2013 1,017.5
2012 1,017.3
2014 96.4
2013 88.7
2012 83.1
2014 9.8
2013 8.7
2012 8.2
Providing Flow Control and 
Advanced Refractories solutions  
for the global steel industry.
Turbulence modelling 
Vesuvius has invested in  
computer simulation and  
water-modelling capabilities to 
predict the flow of steel in the 
continuous casting process
Turbulence modelling Flow
Impact pad 
(Turbostop*)
Molten metal 
Turbulence
The Steel production process  
and Vesuvius
The two product lines that comprise the  
Steel division are Steel Flow Control and 
Advanced Refractories.
Our Flow Control products are used 
extensively in the continuous casting process. 
This process enables steel originated in a 
blast furnace or electric arc furnace to be 
cast directly into slabs or blooms without 
interruption, while remaining protected 
from the atmosphere when passing through 
the production process. Avoiding this 
atmospheric contact significantly reduces 
contamination levels in the steel. Vesuvius 
products have a short service life (often a 
matter of a few hours) due to the significant 
wear caused by the high temperature,  
high thermal cycling and the erosive and 
corrosive environment in which they operate. 
The quality of our products impacts both 
on the quality of the finished metal being 
produced and on the productivity, profitability 
and safety of the customer’s process.
Our products represent a relatively small 
proportion of the input costs of our customers 
(e.g. less than 1 % for a steel producer) 
but their performance is critical to their 
production processes. Therefore, customers 
demand high quality and consistent products 
for these most demanding of applications. 
Vesuvius is a global leader in molten metal 
flow engineering and we achieve this by 
working closely with our customers to 
develop customised refractory systems, 
services and technologies that enable them  
to improve their performance.
Vesuvius also supplies the steel industry 
and other process industries with advanced 
refractory materials used for lining vessels 
such as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes to 
enable them to withstand high temperatures 
and/or corrosive attack. These refractory 
lining materials may be supplied in the form of 
powder mixes, which are spray-applied or cast 
onto the vessels to be lined (“monolithics”) or 
in pre-cast shapes and bricks.
Vesuvius has developed close, collaborative 
relationships with customers and, due to the 
specialised nature of our products and the 
high volume in which they are consumed,  
has developed a global network closely 
aligned with customer locations. Through  
this network we develop customised 
refractory systems, services and technologies 
that enable our customers to enhance  
their performance.
Customers of the Steel division are principally 
steel producers and manufacturers of steel 
production equipment. In addition, we supply 
other high temperature industries such as 
petrochemicals and cement, and therefore 
around 10% to 15% of revenues in the 
Steel division arise from non steel-related 
process industries supplied by the Advanced 
Refractories product line.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 34 As both Flow Control and Advanced 
Refractories products are consumables, 
steel production volumes are the critical 
driver of demand for the Vesuvius Steel 
division. This is particularly true in the 
production of higher quality steels where 
the use of our highly technical products in 
the enclosed continuous casting process 
are most valuable. Steel producers are 
continually striving to enhance their 
processes to improve production through 
less downtime, to reduce labour costs, to 
increase steel quality, reduce energy usage, 
and reduce reworking through thinner 
slab casting. As a consequence they make 
increasing use of our solutions helping them 
to achieve better productivity, quality and 
safety. Hence our sales progress at a higher 
growth rate than steel production volumes.
The global steel market in 2014
According to the World Steel Association 
global steel production in 2014 increased 
by approximately 1. 1 % compared with the 
previous year. The overall market growth 
was driven mainly by increased production 
in the European Union (1.8%), North 
America (2.0%), and China (0.9%). These 
increases were partially offset by output 
declines seen in Ukraine (17 . 1 %) and South 
America (1.4%).
Steel Flow c ontrol products
Robotic Tube c hanger 
A robotic arm changes a pre-heated  
tundish shroud.
Financial performance in 2014 Steel Flow 
Control reported revenues of £544.8m  
for 2014 representing a 2.0% decrease  
on the previous year, due to currency  
market headwinds. On an underlying basis 
revenue was up by 4.3% on 2013 levels.  
All of our operating regions made a positive 
contribution to revenue growth, including 
those which experienced declining steel 
production. We were able to overcome  
any underlying market weakness through  
the strength of our customer relationships 
and the increasing penetration of our  
product offering.
We maintain tight control of costs to ensure 
our prices are competitive for the high levels 
of quality we deliver to our customers. 
We continue to develop our dispersed 
manufacturing base, across which we are able 
to deploy our significant process improvement 
expertise. This, together with investments 
made in process technology, has enhanced 
both our productivity and product quality. 
The introduction of the Lean process model 
in our manufacturing locations continues to 
improve margins by offsetting inflationary 
pressures. For example, we estimate that 
£4m was saved in 2014 as a result of Lean 
initiatives in our Flow Control product line. 
During the year we gave particular focus to 
improved process yields, energy efficiency 
and productivity and we remain committed 
to driving efficiencies within our supply chain 
and logistics operations, making use of our 
network of Lean engineers.
New technologies drive value for our 
customers In order to meet our customers’ 
demands, as indicated by our KPI on page 
33, we undertake a programme of research 
& development that is unparalleled within 
our industry, and which leverages the 
breadth of our experience and global reach. 
Our research efforts are focused on a small 
number of centres of excellence, allowing 
us to concentrate knowledge for maximum 
effectiveness. Product development 
takes place in parallel at development 
centres established in all major markets, 
a geographical spread that allows our 
development teams to get closer to our 
customers and to address their immediate 
requirements in a timely fashion.
Isostatically pressed  
alumina graphite
Extruded clay 
graphite product 
ranges 
Temperature 
measurement
Purging systems and 
control devices 
regulating steel flow
Va PEX* VISO™ a ccumetrix* R.a .D.a .R.*
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
Steel Flow c ontrol 
“ In a year with positive revenue 
from all our regions we 
continued to invest in innovation 
and high technology solutions 
for customers. ” 
c hris a bbott President, Flow Control
35
Our perf Orma nce SEm3085™ Tube c hanger 
A Tube Changer in operation.
Operating review Steel division continued
In 2014 we expanded our Flow Control 
Systems facility in Ghlin, Belgium, whilst 
also increasing the resources allocated to 
developing mechatronic solutions for the  
steel industry. In addition, we initiated 
investment in a new, state-of-the-art  
research facility in Pittsburgh, USA, which  
is due to be completed in early 2016.
All our Flow Control products are 
developed to create value for our customers 
by improving the efficiency of their 
manufacturing processes and the quality 
of their end products. Recently introduced 
new products and solutions underline this 
philosophy, notably our innovative technical 
solutions around the continuous caster. 
The latest robot compatible Tundish Tube 
Changer (product code SEM3085™) and 
the initial variants in our new Robotic Casting 
Technology range continue to perform well, 
with the first 100% robotic installation now 
fully operational in Korea.
This solution will be further enhanced in 2015 
with the installation of robotic capability on 
the Ladle Operating Platform, which will 
integrate oxygen lancing, temperature  
and gas measurement, tundish powder 
feeding and refractory installation. Further 
significant contracts for SEM3085™ have 
been secured in China, Europe, India and 
South America setting the scene for future 
robotic installations. 
c reating value through specialised 
technical services In addition to our 
broad range of Flow Control products, we 
are developing a growing revenue stream 
from technical and advisory services to 
the steelmaking industry. Our investment 
in leading edge modelling and simulation 
capabilities, combined with our intimate 
understanding of our customers’ processes, 
means we are ideally placed to create bespoke 
systems and refractory designs that will 
optimise the flow of molten metal within  
the tundish and mould.
Our Technical Services capabilities have been 
significantly enhanced by the acquisitions 
in recent years of SERT Metal, AVEMIS 
and Metallurgica. All are now integrated 
within our organisation, while 2014 saw 
the purchase of ECIL Met Tec, which further 
demonstrates the opportunities that can 
be captured through the acquisition of 
complementary businesses.
We are developing new capabilities to 
monitor flow characteristics at various points 
in the steel casting process, together with 
data feedback systems and control schemes 
for real-time optimal flow control throughout 
the entire casting sequence. A number of 
solutions incorporating these capabilities have 
commenced “ alpha testing” with customers 
and are due to be launched later this year.
In addition, 2015 will see the installation at a 
customer’s site of a truly unique solution that 
incorporates data capture, process monitoring 
and control, robotics, gas and temperature 
measurement, refractory systems and 
associated refractories. 
This bespoke solution has been made possible 
through combining the knowledge and 
expertise of Vesuvius with the synergistic 
capabilities of AVEMIS, ECIL Met Tec, SERT 
Metal and Metallurgica.
We will continue to enrich our technical 
services offering in the medium term, 
notably through providing our most 
advanced customers in the metal casting 
field with decision critical, process enhancing 
information. This will be delivered through 
a range of data capture and interpretation 
applications.
Strategies to maintain our future growth 
Future business growth momentum will 
primarily come from two areas: 
•  Marketing our innovative, high value process 
enhancing products and services
•  Further penetrating developing markets.
The success of our business will rely on our 
ability to market the innovations we develop 
to the wider audience of customers we 
believe can benefit from them. On a practical 
level, this requires investment in industrial 
marketing and value capture analysis. In 2014 
we strengthened our industrial marketing 
capabilities by creating a Solutions Group 
that uniquely combines steelmaking process 
knowledge, refractory modelling and 
expertise in simulation and equipment. We 
have also introduced a bespoke customer 
management tool that will allow us to  
better understand, quantify and target  
the development of our unique, value-
creating solutions.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 36 c apturing growth in developing 
markets The emerging markets are large 
producers – and consumers – of steel. For 
example, Asia now accounts for some 68% 
of world steel production, compared with 
47% a decade ago. To support our growth 
in these markets we maintain a strong 
regional manufacturing capability which, 
combined with local product development 
centres, places us within easy reach of our 
developing market customers.
In 2014 we successfully completed 
commissioning and production ramp-up 
of a new manufacturing facility in Brazil, 
designed to improve the efficiency of  
raw material processing. The plant now 
enables us to make greater use of local  
raw materials, shortening lead times, 
reducing working capital requirements  
and improving production flexibility.
In 2015 we will further invest in the 
expansion of our manufacturing footprint 
for isostatic pressing in China, together 
with investing in additional mould flux 
manufacturing capacity in India.
a dvanced Refractories
a dvanced Refractories products
Alumino-silicate monolithic  
plastics, forming, gunning  
and shotcrete repair castables
Anydrous tap  
hole clay plastics
SURTa P™ 
KINGTa P™
Precast monolithic refractories including  
precast ladle bottoms and tundish 
furniture systems
LaVaGa RD™ 
aL UGa RD* 
NUma X* 
ELBY* 
TURBOSTOP*
Alumino-silicate and magnesia 
carbon bricks
SILLma X* 
STEIN* 
SUPERma G*
Wet spray and dry vibratable 
monolithic working linings
Ba SILITE* 
Ba SIVIBE™ 
TUNDEX*
Monolithic magnesia gunning repair materials.  
Refractory monitoring, automated application equipment 
and installation services. Insulating fibre composites
Ba SIGUN* 
GUNDOL*
Ingot heading  
Products
PROFa X* 
LITEFa X™ 
STELOTOL*
cRIT ERION* 
SURGUN* 
BLU-Ram*  
FOSc a ST* 
cE RGUN™ 
SUPER #3000* 
a LUGa RD* 
HYDRa- ma X* 
LITHOGa RD™
Financial performance in 2014 Advanced 
Refractories reported revenues for 2014 
totalling £436.6m, a decrease of 5.5% 
compared with 2013. On an underlying basis 
the year-on-year revenue increase was 4.5%. 
Financial performance improved globally, 
despite tough trading conditions in certain 
markets – notably in Eastern Europe –  
which were impacted by political unrest. 
Our revenue performance reflects the results 
of a restructuring that has taken place within 
the division in recent years. This has involved 
divesting non-core activities and realigning 
the business. 
This process continues to be implemented, 
with a focus on improving business 
performance by expanding our efforts in 
value selling, training, brand and product 
rationalisation, together with exiting low-
margin or higher risk activities.
At the beginning of 2014, Advanced 
Refractories embarked upon a major effort 
to implement the latest advanced quality 
planning techniques in our production 
facilities as part of the roll out of our wider 
Lean initiative. This is already having a positive 
impact on margins.
We are investing in research & development 
on a regional basis in China, India and Eastern 
Europe, together with adding personnel and 
equipment in the Middle East. Our aim is to 
support growth initiatives in the emerging 
markets, capitalising on the investments  
that were made in production facilities  
during 2013.
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
“ We continue to focus our 
portfolio, invest in R&D and 
support growth initiatives in 
developing markets. ” 
Tanmay Ganguly President, 
Advanced Refractories
37
Our perf Orma nce High 
resolution 
laser
Ladle
Process metrix  
laser technology  
Following our acquisition 
of Process Metrix in 
2014 we are using laser 
technology in several 
customers’ plants.
Operating Review Steel Division continued
As our trading environment remains very 
competitive, we continue to focus on 
optimising cost and quality within our supply 
chain. Our global purchasing organisation 
deals only with approved suppliers, and is 
constantly seeking opportunities to combine 
reliably high quality raw materials with long-
term price stability. Dual sourcing of materials, 
while maintaining consistent quality, remains 
an active ongoing initiative.
We also use our developing technical services 
offering to differentiate us from low-tech 
commodity suppliers with limited technical 
support. The acquisition in 2014 of Process 
Metrix – together with ongoing projects 
relating to intelligent camera systems and 
temperature measurement – will further 
enhance our ability to expand and broaden 
our technical solutions into all metallurgical 
segments.
a trusted partner Advanced Refractories 
focuses on providing best-in-class products 
and application equipment supported by 
highly experienced and trained technical 
personnel. The business enjoys numerous 
total material supply contracts, in which the 
customer hands over its entire refractory 
needs to Vesuvius, and we in turn take full 
responsibility for cost and consistency. 
Elby* ladle bottom  
in service  
We are expanding 
our Elby * production 
programme into South 
America and Asia.
The strength of our customer relationships 
also derives from proximity: our teams are 
located close to our customers and our people 
are frequently deployed at our customers’ 
sites, providing on-the-spot help and advice.
Innovative solutions for our customers 
Value creation for customers is a fundamental 
performance driver for the Advanced 
Refractories business. Enhanced innovation 
delivery is central to this process: as such we 
have introduced a fully integrated innovation 
delivery system that combines idea generation 
(ideation), our advanced, bespoke customer 
management tool and our reinvigorated new 
product introduction process.
In addition, our worldwide research & 
development effort is now organised under 
a single global manager, with closer links to 
our marketing and technology, sales and 
manufacturing teams. Through this structure 
we can quickly define and prioritise innovative 
refractory and process improvements, then 
deliver them to our customers at a much 
faster pace. Several key innovations have 
already reached the latter stages of this  
new process.
a leader in refractory technology In 
2014 we made progress with a number of 
technological developments in line with 
Group strategy. They included:
•  A further expansion of our best-in-class 
Gard™ family of products, notably 
in aluminium (Alugard*) and cement 
(Lithogard™) markets
•  Utilisation of newly-acquired laser 
technology from Process Metrix for 
several total ladle contracts, enhancing 
performance and improving the clarity  
of future technology requirements
•  Development and testing of a new range 
of brick products for steel ladles. These 
enhance the thermal behaviour of the 
refractory, reduce the potential for carbon 
pick-up and improve overall refractory life
•  Further development of our automated 
robotic application, which is deployed to 
ensure safe and consistent application of  
our advanced refractories in the tundish
•  Expansion of the Elby* , our Engineered 
Ladle Bottom Yield programme, into South 
America and Asia. Investments in future 
Elby* production capacity are planned as 
a result.
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 38 Operating review 
Foundry division
“ In a year of mixed end-markets 
we continued our strategic 
focus on marketing and 
technology, investment in R&D 
and development of high quality 
production facilities. ” 
Glenn c owie President, Foundry
39
Our perf Orma nce Foundry revenue £m
£463.0m
-6.1%
Foundry trading profit £m
£46.4m
-9.5%
Foundry return on sales %
10%
-35bps
2014 463.0
2013 493.0
2012 530.2
2014 46.4
2013 51.3
2012 48.2
2014 10.0
2013 10.4
2012 9.1
Vesuvius in the foundry industry
Our Foundry division trades under the  
Foseco brand, a world-renowned name 
that has become a by-word for reliability, 
technology and service. The division generates 
approximately one-third of total Group 
revenue and is an acknowledged world leader 
in the supply of consumable products and 
associated services to the foundry industry. 
Some 40% of worldwide castings (and a 
similar percentage of the revenue for the 
Foundry division) are produced for the vehicle 
sector, comprising light vehicles (passenger 
cars and light trucks) and heavy trucks.  
Other end-markets for foundry castings 
include machinery for the construction, 
agriculture and mining industries, power 
generation equipment, railroad and general 
engineering. Our customers include the 
world’s major automotive OEMs, truck 
producers and manufacturers of construction, 
railroad and mining equipment. Whilst the 
products Foseco supplies typically represent 
less than 5% of a foundry’s production cost, 
they contribute significantly to improving both 
product quality and manufacturing efficiency, 
while reducing the environmental impact of 
the casting process.
The global foundry industry in 2014 The 
foundry market was significantly impacted 
by difficulties within the mining industry, 
which resulted from the general decline in 
commodity and precious metal prices. We 
saw reduced investment in all mining, notably 
in the USA, Brazil, Indonesia and Australia, 
with delays to new projects resulting in 
reduced activity for foundries producing 
castings for the mining process as well  
as those used for related equipment  
and vehicles.
The light vehicle (i.e. passenger cars and 
light trucks) industry picked up in 2014, with 
global production up by 2.2% year-on-year. 
Light vehicle production in Northern Europe 
trended slightly above average (at 2.3%) and 
NAFTA light vehicle and heavy truck output 
increased by 4.7% and 16.7% respectively. 
However, South America continued to 
struggle, particularly Brazil, which recorded 
production decreases of 20% for light 
vehicles and 14.7% for heavy vehicles.
Foundry products
Feeder  
sleeves
FEEDEX* 
Ka LmINEX* 
Ka LmIN*
Ceramic  
foam filters
SEDEX* 
SIVEX* 
STELEX*
Refractory coatings for 
moulds and cores
RHEOTEc * 
HOLc OTE* 
ISOmOL*
Aluminium 
metallurgical control
FDU* 
mTS™ 
c OVERa L*
Process for the 
production of  
ductile iron
INITEK*
Crucibles for the 
melting and holding of 
non ferrous alloys
DIa ma NT* 
KING-ca RB* 
TERc OD*
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries Operating review Foundry division continued
Foundry R&D 
Researching casting methods  
and materials at our new state- 
of-the-art Foundry R&D Centre  
in Enschede.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Two: Our Performance 40
On a global basis, heavy truck and railroad 
production decreased by a combined 2. 1 % 
against 2013 levels, with the railroad industry 
being another that suffered due to reduced 
mining activity.
We also experienced political and economic 
instability in some markets where we 
traditionally experienced good volumes and 
margins such as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil.
Financial performance in 2014 Underlying 
revenue in the Foundry division increased 
1.8% year-on-year, and underlying 
profitability was maintained as a result 
of a series of self-help measures to offset 
the marked impact of reduced activity in 
traditionally higher margin emerging markets.
The worldwide foundry market grew 
moderately supported by the progression 
in light vehicle output in North America, 
Europe and China. However, it was affected 
by the continued reduction of investment 
spending in the mining sector as well as a 
severe downturn in the auto sector in Brazil 
and Thailand. Coupled with the political 
instability in Ukraine, this affected sales in 
Brazil, Australia, South Africa, Thailand and 
Indonesia.
We achieved a solid performance in North 
America, benefiting from increased light 
vehicle and truck production of 4.7% and 
16.7% respectively. However, this was offset 
by reduced foundry activity in Brazil which 
experienced a 20% drop in light vehicle 
production and a 14.7% reduction in heavy 
vehicle output, and by considerably reduced 
mining activity, a small but nonetheless 
traditionally high margin end-market. 
Revenue in Europe increased by 3.8%, driven 
by a 3.8% increase in light vehicle production, 
and despite lacklustre truck production 
especially in Northern Europe which saw  
a decrease of 1 1. 1 %. 
In Asia-Pacific, we benefited from 6. 1 % 
growth in Chinese light vehicle output but 
this was offset by a reduction in automotive 
production in Thailand, the impact of a ban 
on the export of metallic ores from Indonesia 
and continued deterioration of castings 
activity produced in the Australian mining 
industry. 
Construction of phase one of a new 
manufacturing plant for foundry products in 
Changshu, China was completed during the 
year and was fully operational from Q4 2014. 
More than 40% of global foundry castings 
are currently produced in China, so this 
represents a very important growth market 
for us. In addition, the new R&D facility 
located in Enschede, Netherlands was opened 
in late 2014 to drive product innovation and 
further growth.
Partners in value creation Our business 
strategy, which we call Performance 
Partnership, builds on the Vesuvius business 
model, and on generating the greatest 
possible value for our customers, helping 
them deliver higher quality castings and 
enhancing their foundry processes and 
efficiency. 
As the global foundry industry evolves, this 
approach enables us to capitalise on our deep 
understanding of customers’ priorities for 
growth and process improvement, as well  
as on our excellence in product innovation. 41
Our perf Orma nce Our global reach Our worldwide presence 
forms the foundation of our business model. 
We embed technical experts at numerous 
customer premises, which allows them to 
identify potential process improvements in 
cooperation with their host customers.
In addition, we have established a network 
of technology centres, in which we have 
amassed the expertise to develop solutions 
that incorporate engineered systems and 
high value consumables. These solutions are 
industrialised by our geographically dispersed 
manufacturing base, which leverages our 
global expertise whilst being deliberately 
located as close as possible to our customers.
The net result is that we are able to ensure 
all our customers receive solutions that 
are tailor-made to their specific needs and 
opportunities, supplied on a reliable, just-in-
time and competitively priced basis.
From a Foundry perspective, this model is:
•  Resilient to end-market cycles, due to the 
flexibility of our diversified manufacturing 
footprint and adjustable cost base
•  Profitable, as it allows value pricing for 
bespoke products
•  Growth generating, as we can grow 
markets by creating additional innovative 
products and solutions.
100%
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Aluminium Ductile Iron Steel
Northern Europe
South America
Japan
NORAM
CEME
India
China
Foundry Sales £/T of total market casting (2014)
Strategies to maintain our future growth 
We commenced and/or completed several 
key strategic actions in 2014:
•  Commissioned our state-of-the-art sleeves 
and coatings plants in Changshu, China
•  Opened our new, world class research 
& development Centre in Enschede, 
Netherlands
•  Undertook a global review of the Foundry 
market to inform and challenge how we 
react to the actions of competitors
•  Restructured our global management  
and Marketing & Technology teams, to 
support our focus on market segmentation 
and the investments we’ve made in  
research capability
•  Developed aggressive growth plans for 
NAFTA, focusing on clean steel and new 
market penetration
•  Expanded steel filtration capacity in Japan, 
with new filtration products set for launch 
in 2015.
a focus on developing markets Potential 
revenue per customer and per tonne of 
castings produced is strongly influenced by 
the technical sophistication of the customer, 
the end-market for the casting and the 
processes used in its production. These 
factors tend to correlate with the level of 
industrial development taking place within 
each market, plus the corresponding capital 
investment in the foundry. Therefore we see 
significant growth potential in markets where 
industrial development continues to gather 
momentum, particularly certain parts of 
Eastern Europe and Asia.
As such, we are expanding our network of 
technical sales staff and application engineers 
within developing markets, ensuring that 
customers there have local access to our high 
levels of locally available technical support. 42 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility In this section 
44 Corporate Responsibility
46 Safety
49 Sustainability
52 Human Resources
Our Responsibility
Section Three
3
Our r esp Ons ibility 43 Corporate Responsibility
Understanding and meeting 
our responsibilities enhances our 
performance. We recognise that 
our operations impact a wide 
community of stakeholders, 
including investors, employees, 
customers, business associates 
and local communities, and 
that appropriate attention to 
the fulfilment of our corporate 
responsibilities supports the 
creation of long-term value  
for our shareholders. 
Vesuvius LTV a wards 2014
Each year, every employee can 
nominate another employee or team 
to recognise exemplary working 
behaviour in line with our values.  
In 2014, over 100 nominations were 
received. These were reviewed by 
a selection committee and the best 
selected for recognition at our LTV 
Awards ceremony. 
20 awards were made in 2014, 
bringing together employees from 
all geographies of our business to 
celebrate the Vesuvius values.
Vesuvius employs nearly 12,000 people, 
with manufacturing facilities in 26 countries, 
serving customers all over the globe. Our 
employees’ engagement with our values, 
strategy and culture is vital to the success of 
the Group. 
Our values
Our five corporate values, which direct our 
everyday behaviour at work, are:
c reativity Our commitment to technology 
and quality is the basis for our competitive 
advantage. Creativity allows us to develop 
innovative solutions and continuous 
improvements that generate value through 
performance enhancement.
c ooperation Encouraging internal and 
external cooperation is the behaviour which 
enables us to create unique solutions with our 
partners. Through cooperation, each Vesuvius 
employee is committed to the success of their 
community of colleagues and customers.
Reliability Our solutions involve us in critical 
aspects of our customers’ manufacturing 
processes. Our commitment to deliver 
consistent products and service gives them 
the level of confidence they require.
Integrity At the heart of our promise lies the 
trustworthiness of all Vesuvius employees 
in their acts and words. Integrity, honesty 
and transparency are essential in all our 
exchanges.
Embracing diversity Vesuvius is a global 
Company built upon a true respect for local 
customs and experience. We recognise and 
embrace the potential for creativity that 
comes from the coexistence of so many 
different cultures. 
The best examples of how our employees 
demonstrate our values are celebrated 
once a year during the Living The Values 
(“LTV”) Awards ceremony which brings 
together employees from around the globe 
to celebrate their outstanding individual 
contribution to the implementation of 
Vesuvius’ values.
c ode of c onduct 
Vesuvius has a Code of Conduct, which has 
been distributed throughout the Group and 
by which all our businesses are required to 
operate. The Code of Conduct emphasises 
the Group’s commitment to compliance  
with the highest standards of legal and  
ethical behaviour. 
The Code of Conduct sets out clear and 
simple principles covering: customers, 
products and services; employees; investors; 
society and local communities; health, safety 
and the environment; conflicts of interest; 
and competitors. Maintaining a reputation 
for integrity in all business and other dealings 
both with customers and suppliers remains 
critical to Vesuvius. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility 44 The Code of Conduct recognises that 
the pursuit of the highest possible ethical 
standards must be as much a part of our 
culture as any other facet of our operations, 
and emphasises our commitment to the 
performance of our business in accordance 
with these standards. 
The Code of Conduct is available on the 
Company’s website www.vesuvius.com.
The Company operates a business concern 
helpline where employees can raise concerns 
anonymously, if they wish, knowing that 
these will be investigated and acted upon. 
No employee will ever be penalised or 
disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate 
concern. 
Training programme
During the year we continued to expand our 
training programme on the Code of Conduct 
and associated anti-bribery and corruption 
policies. This comprises face-to-face training 
and use of an e-learning module. To date 
more than 2,500 employees have been 
trained on anti-bribery and corruption issues, 
focusing particularly on those who work with 
customers, suppliers and public officials. We 
continue to develop this process to help our 
staff and counterparties to understand that 
bribery and corruption will not be tolerated  
in the performance of our business.
Unicycling in c hina  
One of the four projects introduced 
as part of the well established 
Vesuvius China “Energising CSR” 
programme where Vesuvius has 
worked in partnership with the 
Suzhou Industrial Park Youth & 
Children Centre to provide free after 
school sports and entertainment 
activities to local children.
c orporate citizenship and Human Rights 
Vesuvius seeks to be a good corporate citizen 
wherever it does business and respects local 
concerns, customs and traditions. 
The Group has a Human Rights Policy,  
which supplements the Code of Conduct  
and has been approved by the Board. It 
reflects principles contained within the  
United Nations Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, the International Labour 
Organisation’s Fundamental Conventions on 
Labour Standards and the United Nations 
Global Compact. 
The Policy is applicable to all employees of 
Vesuvius and its subsidiaries. It sets out the 
principles for our actions and behaviour in 
conducting our business affairs and provides 
guidance to those working for us on how we 
approach human rights issues. 
The Policy sets out the Group’s commitment 
not to discriminate in any of our employee 
practices and to offer equal opportunities 
to all. The Group respects the principles of 
freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining and opposes the use of, and will 
not use, forced, compulsory or child labour. 
45
Our r esp Ons ibility Safety leadership
Safety is the first item on the agenda at all our 
executive and management meetings. The 
Group remains fully committed to continual 
safety improvement with a Group Health  
and Safety Policy stating clear objectives of:
 
 
0
accidents
No
repeat injuries
No
harm to people
These objectives are pursued through a range 
of policies, standards and procedures. 
Safety breakthrough
Vesuvius launched its first major change 
programme in 2008. This global initiative was 
designed to reduce the number of accidents, 
fires, and lost time injuries, and to increase 
safety awareness through greater employee 
engagement. Our aim is to raise health and 
safety performance to best-in-class levels 
throughout the Vesuvius business. Safety 
Breakthrough set a goal of attaining the 
lowest level of accidents within our industry 
sector with the ultimate goal of reaching 
zero accidents throughout Vesuvius. The 
reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (“LTIFR”) from 9.8 to 1.8 over the period 
of implementation of Safety Breakthrough 
shows the significant improvements 
this programme has delivered. ‘Safety 
Breakthrough’ continually drives our approach 
towards achieving these challenging aims.
Turbo.S: the next level 
The current phase of the Safety Breakthrough 
initiative – Turbo.S – builds on the foundation 
of Safety Breakthrough and includes a 
strong focus on the standardisation of 
all our repetitive activities. Turbo.S also 
integrates good management practices in the 
workplace, with a strong emphasis on the 
need to implement an organisation which 
enables everybody to work to the same high 
standards in safety performance.
As part of the Turbo.S initiative:
•  Senior executives regularly lead safety tours 
at all locations
•  All severe accidents are formally reviewed  
by the Group Executive Committee
•  Employees are routinely engaged in  
safety audits 
•  We invest significantly in safety training for 
all employees, irrespective of their roles and 
functions within our business
•  All employees are expected to routinely 
raise and implement safety improvement 
opportunities; we focus on the number of 
implemented ideas
•  Safety standards are continually updated, 
translated and deployed throughout 
Vesuvius
•  All injuries and dangerous occurrences are 
analysed locally, with a formal presentation 
of findings, root causes and improvement 
actions cascaded through management.
Vesuvius remains committed to 
protecting employees by reducing 
and eliminating workplace hazards.
The safety of our staff and visitors 
remains our greatest operational 
priority. We measure the Lost 
Time Injury Frequency Rate as 
one of the key indicators of our 
performance. Our aim is to identify, 
eliminate, reduce and control 
all workplace risks.
Safety
The implementation and sharing 
of best practices through Vesuvius 
standards and other tools
Total employee involvement, with  
the need for safety improvement 
being driven at the most senior  
levels of our business
A commitment to become a true 
learning organisation, avoiding repeat 
accidents and sharing lessons learned
Greater focus in future for customer-
facing personnel to ensure that 
we work to control risks faced 
in customer locations as far as 
is practicable
Turbo.S features
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility 46 Work safely,
remember she needs you
Daddy, 
take care of your hands.
One specific issue we are focusing on is 
the safety of our employees who operate 
at customer sites, where conditions can be 
harsher and more complex to manage than 
at our own sites. This is particularly true of our 
operations in emerging markets where seven 
of our 49 Lost Time Injuries occurred in 2014. 
The chart below highlights progress to date 
– we recognise the need for continued focus 
on this area. 
More globally, we have introduced the 
following initiatives to try and improve our 
safety performance: 
•  Every site has established their own  
specific improvement plans, approved  
by management 
•  A health and safety survey programme is 
assessing every manufacturing site on its 
progress against consistent Group standards 
for safety
•  Process safety initiatives have been launched 
on a number of critical processes, such as 
isostatic press safety, electrical installations 
and gas safety
•  Turbo.S content has been revised 
specifically for customer-facing personnel, 
with a specific focus on risks in customer 
locations and the use of Personal Protective 
Equipment.
a ccident and incident reporting 
and analysis A significant investment in time 
and resources has been made over recent 
years to develop robust, comprehensive and 
timely reporting of accident and incident 
information. As part of management 
reporting, the Board receives a monthly 
update on all Lost Time Injuries and severe 
accidents.
Vesuvius is using more stringent definitions 
for Lost Time Injuries and “severe accidents” 
than OSHA (USA). This includes all fires, 
explosions and any major spill or other 
chemical releases. 
Accident information remains openly 
available and summarised in an HSE database. 
Completion of a full investigation report for 
all significant incidents to identify the true 
root cause is mandatory – in line with the 
“no repeats” objective. 
Safety audits
A key part of the Turbo.S programme is 
to ensure that safety audits become an 
established and sustainable part of the 
Group’s ongoing safety efforts.
The audit programme involves employees 
at all levels – from the Group Executive 
Committee and safety specialists through 
to local site management, employees and 
contractors. Our programme to include 
employees in safety audits as auditors started 
in 2012. This has been very successful, and 
in 2014 nearly two thirds of employees and 
contractors were involved every month in 
conducting audits.
Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked
Safety Breakthrough is widely 
communicated across the business
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
LTIFR target LTIFR 12 month rolling
47
Our r esp Ons ibility Safety continued
Safety partnership with Hyundai 
Safety
William c oelho Area Director, Korea, Japan and Taiwan 
“ Our support to Hyundai Steel through their safety 
initiative of 201 3/2014 demonstrates our important 
role in contributing to a healthier and safer 
workplace for our customers and their employees. ” 
c ooperation, reliability and integrity in 
supporting customer safety improvement 
needs Having developed a strong working 
relationship with one of our key international 
customers, Hyundai Steel, Vesuvius used its own 
internal safety expertise to provide ongoing 
support throughout 2014 to assist in promoting 
greater awareness and focus on safety in high  
risk areas of activity at Hyundai Steel’s plant.
In October 2013, an initial safety audit was 
conducted by Vesuvius senior Health and Safety 
management, focusing upon sharing Permit to 
Work best practices. Recommendations were 
shared with the customer related to increasing 
safety focus and awareness.
In February 2014, a follow-up visit focused 
on the continuous casting process and ladle 
preparation, where effective improvement 
recommendations were discussed with Hyundai 
Steel’s management and solutions agreed and 
implemented.
Safety leadership As well as Vesuvius’ local 
management working closely with Hyundai 
Steel’s area management, Vesuvius’ Chairman, 
John McDonough visited Hyundai whilst this 
work was being undertaken, so reinforcing our 
commitment, at the highest level, both to health 
and safety and to meeting our customers’ needs 
over and above the supply of traditional product-
based applications. 
Safety improvements and sharing 
lessons learned
A feature of Turbo.S is to become a true 
learning organisation, avoiding repeat 
accidents and sharing lessons learned 
from serious issues using the “Red Stripe” 
distribution process. A further development 
of this tool is the new Safety Alert bulletin 
which aims to share information on incidents 
on a more timely basis.
The Safety Improvement Opportunity with 
Permanent corrective Action (“SIOPA ”) 
initiative requires site employees to 
identify safety problems/improvement 
opportunities, which then require a formal 
response including the implementation of an 
improvement action. The Group has annual 
targets for employee SIOPAs which are 
continually reviewed. In 2014 we set ourselves 
the goal of six SIOPAs per employee per year 
which was attained.
Sharing safety Improvements with 
our customers
In 2014, in a number of countries, we have 
worked more closely with our customers  
to ensure that we share best practices  
and support safety improvement of  
key customers. 
This is a service we are happy to offer, since  
it helps improve the safety of all people 
working in the related locations.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility 48 48 Vesuvius remains committed to 
improving its environmental impact 
by reducing, reusing and recycling 
waste and improving energy 
efficiency wherever economically 
viable. The Board recognises that 
good environmental management  
is aligned with our focus on cost 
optimisation and operational 
excellence.
Vesuvius and its processes
The majority of our manufacturing processes 
are not energy intensive and do not produce 
large quantities of waste and emissions. 
Total energy costs are less than 3% of 
revenue, with only 2% of the total energy 
requirements across the Group consumed  
in the UK.
Our customers and their processes
Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, we 
deliver a large range of solutions that help  
our customers improve the productivity of 
their operations. These solutions also improve 
the quality of our customers’ products and 
reduce the environmental footprint of  
their processes.
Thermal optimisation and reject reduction  
are key factors in the processes for which  
we supply solutions. Vesuvius contributes  
to the reduction of its customers’ energy 
usage and subsequent carbon dioxide  
(“CO
2
“) emissions through insulating 
materials, flow management, facilitating 
extended manufacturing sequences and 
reduced downtime.
Sustainability
methodology We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all the emission  
sources required under Part 7 of the Accounting Regulations which fall within our consolidated  
financial statements.
Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in our factories and offices.
Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and 
hot water we purchase to supply our offices and factories. We have used data gathered to fulfil our 
requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme and emission factors from UK Government’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 in the calculation of our GHG.
Global GHG emissions
kg of c O
2
e
Emissions source
c ombustion of fuel  
and operation of facilities
Electricity, heat, steam and  
cooling purchased for own use
Total GHG emission
 
Vesuvius’ chosen intensity measurement:  
Emissions reported above, normalised  
to per tonne of product output
2014
384m
104m 
488m 
-2.6%  
 
513
2013
398m
103m 
501m 
 
 
528
Greenhouse gas reporting
In reporting GHG emissions, we have used 
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition) 
methodology to identify our greenhouse 
gas inventory of Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 
2 (indirect) CO
2
. We report in CO
2
 equivalent 
(“CO
2
e”).
Environmental monitoring
All our factory emissions are proactively 
managed in accordance with local 
regulations. Regular analysis of our operations 
enables us to take appropriate action to 
reduce our emissions and operate more 
efficiently. The Group monitors its energy 
consumption, worldwide CO
2
 emissions  
and usage of water.
The Group also meets all of its obligations 
in relation to the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme 
(“CRC”) and the Producer Responsibility 
Packaging Waste regulations.
Energy conservation plan
The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan 
was launched in 201 1 with the objective of 
reducing our normalised energy consumption 
by 10% over the following three years. We 
have continued to progress with a 3.63% 
reduction in normalised energy intensity 
and a 2.85% reduction in CO
2
e intensity 
ratio achieved since 2013. Managing our 
energy intensity is part of enhancing our 
cost competitiveness. It also contributes to 
improving the total environmental impact  
of our customers.
So what is Vesuvius?
a responsible supplier 1.8 tonnes of CO
2
 
are emitted for every tonne of steel produced. 
In 2010 the iron and steel industry accounted 
for approximately 6.7% of total world 
CO
2
 emissions and 18% of industrial CO
2
 
emissions. Additionally, approximately 10 kg 
of refractory material is required per tonne of 
steel produced.
In the foundry process, the average quantity of 
molten metal employed is, as a worldwide 
average, 2.5 kg per kg of good finished piece. 
The solutions offered by Foseco can reduce this 
ratio significantly below 2.0 kg of molten metal 
per kg of good finished cast piece, driving a 
considerable saving of CO
2
 emissions.
Vesuvius’ products reduce the energy 
consumption of our customers and, as their 
usage also increases the quality of customers’ 
products and reduces waste, they are 
increasingly beneficial when energy costs rise.
Benefits are realised by:
•  Working closely with customers to 
improve processes through the supply of 
technologically advanced consumables 
to reduce energy intensity and the CO
2
e 
intensity ratio
•  Reductions in refractory usage per tonne of 
steel produced by customers, from higher 
quality longer service life
•  An increase in the level of good castings 
produced per tonne of metal melted 
through improved mould design and the 
application of molten metal filtration and 
feeding systems
•  Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger 
components leading to lighter vehicles  
and less energy consumption.
49
Our r esp Ons ibility Sustainability continued
a responsible manufacturer Where 
Vesuvius’ products are manufactured 
using energy intensive processes, energy 
management and CO
2
e intensity ratio 
reduction are actively recognised as areas 
of increasing importance. Through our 
membership of the European Refractories 
Producers Federation (PRE), currently chaired 
by François Wanecq, we work closely with 
other manufacturers to reduce the industry 
carbon footprint. Most recently, a European 
footprinting exercise has been completed for 
refractories as part of the 2050 roadmap, with 
the ultimate ambition of an 80% reduction  
in the carbon footprint of the European 
ceramic industry. 
a responsible purchaser Fuel selection 
is made carefully to account for current 
and future cost trends, availability and 
environmental impact. Vesuvius’ purchasing 
professionals work closely with suppliers to 
ensure the availability of raw materials and 
their sustainable supply.
Sourcing of new plant and equipment takes 
into account lifetime energy consumption in 
order to deliver a lower energy intensity, lower 
CO
2
e emissions and hence lower lifetime 
running costs.
Energy efficiency and our customers
We launched our Energy Efficiency and CO
2
 
Reduction project to foster the deployment 
of energy efficiency and sustainable solutions 
engineered by our technology departments. 
A CO
2
 Impact stamp, in use since 201 1, 
highlights the most energy efficient solutions 
in our portfolio of products and services.
The examples shown to the right are a sample 
of the significant potential reduction in CO
2
 
resulting from our actions. 
Steel Flow c ontrol
Cold start: Flow control 
technical ceramics
A new refractory technology has allowed the development  
of materials with enhanced cold start capabilities.
This allows for a significant increase in the durability of the 
ladle shroud, extending the life by up to 50%, using less 
refractory, and offering significant material and cost savings. 
The material also finds application in submerged entry nozzles 
and shrouds where thermal shock failures resulting from poor 
preheat practice or delayed strand starts can be avoided. 
Thermal shock failures inevitably lead to premature sequence 
termination with significant cost implications for the user, in 
terms of reduced output, returned steel, and yield and quality 
losses. The use of this material in tube changer applications 
also avoids preheating the subsequent tubes, reducing energy 
consumption. 
Typical savings of the order of 21 T per year in wasted 
refractory and 123 T CO
2
 per preheater per year can  
be expected.
Increased Durability 
Cold start technology ladle 
shroud designed for use with 
the Ladle Tube Changer  
C 100%
M 40%
Y 80%
K 15%
P3298
C 50%
M 0%
Y 40%
K 0%
P3258
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility 50 a dvanced Refractories Foundry
Cold start: Increasing tundish 
operation efficiency
Furnace melt deck: Improving 
productivity and efficiency
Vesuvius’ refractory engineers took a 40-tonne twin strand slab 
tundish currently utilising a spray working lining and hot start 
practice, and significantly reduced refractory and energy costs 
and turnaround times. In addition this allowed the customer to 
reduce the number of tundishes used in the cycle, to change the 
working lining from spray to dry working lining, and change the 
start-up practice from hot start to cold start.
Delivering to the customer:
•  Preparation time per tundish reduced by 125 minutes
•  Reduction of gas consumption, electric power (and 
consequently CO
2
) used in tundish preparation
•  Tundish operation labour per shift reduced from eight to four
•  Significant reduction of the number of tundishes in rotation.
The furnace melt deck and metal transfer area account for more 
than half of a foundry’s energy consumption. Foseco’s patented 
INITEK* process for the production of ductile iron has many 
benefits for foundry operations which include:
•  Increased productivity
•  Improved reliability and process control
•  Improved casting quality
•  Reduced energy consumption
•  Reduced emissions
•  Reduced consumption of ferro alloys
•  Reduced operating costs
•  Reduced pig iron consumption – preserving natural resources.
A customer in North America (pouring 25,000 tonnes of ductile 
iron castings per year) reduced the melting temperature of the 
base iron in the coreless induction furnace by 35°C by utilising 
our innovative INITEK* process. The reduced melt temperature 
in combination with improved casting quality and a 10% 
reduction in consumption of ferro alloys will provide a reduction 
of 20.6 kg CO
2
 per tonne of shipped castings. This represents a 
reduction of 515,000 kg CO
2
 per annum (5%) in CO
2
 emissions.
Increasing Efficiency 
Cold start Tundish preparation
Improving productivity  
and efficiency  
Foseco INITEK* convertor
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
51
Our r esp Ons ibility Our records show us that Vesuvius has 
unbalanced gender representation, in line 
with other companies of our size and nature. 
We are working hard to address this as part 
of our Group-wide commitment to diversity. 
Training on unconscious bias is being rolled 
out and recruitment consultants are required 
to provide balanced lists of candidates.
Training and developing 
Performance and advancement potential are 
critical areas of talent assessment. During 
2014 the annual talent review cycle was 
significantly enhanced to provide further 
transparency on the talent available within  
the business, to allow us to nurture this talent 
and tailor personal development plans for  
our employees. 
This initiative is supported by our deployment 
of the Lominger Leadership Competency 
Framework which uses a competency-
based approach to people and performance 
management. 
Technical and business skills training 
− HeaTt HeaTt is the Vesuvius technical 
university. It is structured on five levels, from 
“entry” to “expert” . Modules are designed 
and delivered by our own internal staff, with 
the introductory level giving an overview of 
the business and the most advanced modules 
being specialised by business unit, products 
and applications.
We continue to pursue the delivery of Wings, 
our middle management development 
programme designed in partnership with 
the Vlerick Business School in Belgium. In 
addition to this, new courses were added 
to the Corporate Training portfolio in the 
areas of Business Intelligence, IT, Quality 
Management, Costing, Purchasing, and 
Intercultural Awareness. 
Retaining and motivating
Vesuvius recognises that job satisfaction 
requires working environments that motivate 
employees to be productive and innovative. 
We therefore provide opportunities for 
employee training and development to 
maximise personal potential and develop 
careers within the Group. Vesuvius is 
managed on a decentralised basis and it 
is the responsibility of the Vice President 
Human Resources, together with the 
relevant operational managers, to adopt 
employment policies and practices that best 
suit the size, style and geographical location 
of specific operations. This management 
structure allows our operations to respond 
competitively to changes in the marketplace 
and to develop and retain a strong sense of 
identity, whilst benefiting from being a part  
of a major international group. 
Vesuvius values the feedback of its 
employees. We keep employees informed  
on matters affecting them directly and  
factors relevant to Group performance. 
Human Resources
Our mission is to help our 
employees recognise, develop  
and deploy their talent so that 
Vesuvius is stronger in meeting  
its strategic objectives and  
remains the workplace of  
choice for its employees. 
The performance development cycle Gender diversity
Hiring and resourcing 
Vesuvius is an equal opportunities employer. 
As a business we value the advantages  
gained from a workforce with diverse social 
and cultural backgrounds. 
Decisions on recruitment, career 
development, training, promotion and other 
employment related issues are made solely on 
the grounds of individual ability, achievement, 
expertise and conduct. These principles are 
operated on a non-discriminatory basis, 
without regard to race, colour, nationality, 
culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, age, disability or any other reason 
not related to job performance or prohibited 
by applicable law.
Train and 
develop
Plan and 
objective 
setting
Manage 
and coach
Review 
and plan
Reward and 
recognise
Female male Total Female male
GEc member – 11 11 0% 100%
Senior management 9 102 111 8% 92%
middle management 34 308 342 10% 90%
a ll other employees 1,445 9,883 11,328 13% 87%
Grand total 1,488 10,304 11,792 13% 87%
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility 52 Development opportunities overseas
Expatriation satisfies both a business need 
and provides employees with important 
opportunities to advance their careers. The 
HR team’s work is the key mechanism for 
identifying gaps within local operations and 
matching these with the skills of employees 
from other offices. Vesuvius has 30 employees 
on long-term expatriate assignments. Many 
others are working on similar short-term 
assignments across the globe. However, 
having a cadre of mobile senior managers is 
not the only important element. Ensuring that 
an individual’s talent is identified and nurtured 
during the early stages of their career is also 
part of our strategy. In September 2014, the 
fourth wave of our Columbus programme 
was launched. This involves three young 
graduates from Poland and three from 
Mexico. After three months in their home 
countries, they will swap countries for a 
period of nine months. 
Vesuvius employees worldwide
Shared  
Services 796
Head Office 42
Flow Control 5,015 
Foundry 3,199
Advanced Ref 2,740
Salaried 4,232
 
Hourly 6,549
Temps 1,011 China 1,845
Europe 4,754
India 777
NAFTA 2,517
North Asia 343
South 
America 1,220
South Asia 336
Project Columbus
Project Columbus was started in 2010 with the aim of rejuvenating 
our cadre of technical experts and managers and providing sound 
succession planning. 
The goal of the programme is to create a layer 
of young, internationally mobile managers, 
who will be developed to be part of the 
next management and expert generation in 
Vesuvius. Every year a group of six recently 
graduated engineers are hired and after having 
spent three months in an operating company in 
their own country, where they are familiarised 
with the Vesuvius business, they are sent abroad 
for a period of nine months. During these nine 
months they work for a period of three months 
in each Vesuvius business unit.
After completing the first year of their 
employment successfully, they will be 
offered further employment with Vesuvius, 
preferably outside their own country or in an 
international job. 
Since the start of the project, graduates from 
Poland, Czech Republic, Brazil, India, Mexico 
and China have participated in the programme 
and from the total group of 24 participants,  
19 are still employed with Vesuvius. The project 
is currently in its fourth year introducing  
three Polish and three Mexican graduates  
to the Company.
Human Resources
16
40
7
3
3
10
21
Employees
by region
%
43
27
23
0.4
7
Employees
by business
unit
%
36
9
55
Employees
by employment 
type
% 
53
Our r esp Ons ibility Vesuvius plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 Section Four: Governance In this section 
56 Board of Directors
58 Group Executive Committee
60 Chairman’s governance letter
61 Governance report
67 Audit Committee
73 Nomination Committee
75 Remuneration overview
76 Annual remuneration report
86 Remuneration Policy
94 Directors’ report
97 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Governance
Section Four
4
Governance 55 Board of Directors
1 2
4 3
1. John mcDonough c BE Chairman  
a ppointed: 31 October 2012  c ommittees: Nomination (Chairman) 
c areer experience: John was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the 
Company on 31 October 2012. John was group Chief Executive Officer of 
Carillion plc, the support services and construction firm, for 1 1 years until he 
retired in 201 1. Prior to joining Carillion plc he spent nine years at Johnson 
Controls Inc. working for the automotive systems division, initially in the UK, 
before moving to become Vice President of the division’s European operations 
and ultimately to Singapore to develop the business in Asia-Pacific. He then 
returned to the UK as Vice President of the integrated facilities management 
division for EMEA. John served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
of Tomkins plc from 2007 to 2010 and as a Non-executive Director of Exel plc 
from 2004 to 2005. John was awarded a CBE in 201 1 for services to industry 
and is a British citizen.
Other appointments: He joined The Vitec Group plc in March 2012, and has 
served as its Chairman since June 2012. He is also a Director of Cornerstone 
Property Assets Ltd and Sunbird Business Services Ltd.
2. François Wanecq Chief Executive 
a ppointed: 31 October 2012
c areer experience: François was appointed as a Director of the Company 
on 31 October 2012. He previously joined the Cookson Group plc board in 
February 2010. François has been the Chief Executive of Cookson’s Engineered 
Ceramics division since October 2005. Prior to joining Cookson he held a series 
of senior management roles at Arjo Wiggins Group and served as an Executive 
Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc from 1999 until it was delisted. From 
1985 to 1995 he was Managing Director of the technical ceramics division of 
the Saint-Gobain Group. François graduated from the École Polytechnique  
and École des Mines de Paris and is a French citizen.
3. c hris O’Shea Chief Financial Officer 
a ppointed: 31 October 2012
c areer experience: Chris was appointed as a Director of the Company on 
31 October 2012, having joined Vesuvius earlier that year. Prior to joining 
Vesuvius, Chris held a number of senior finance roles at BG Group, latterly 
serving as CFO for the group’s businesses in Africa, the Middle East and 
Asia. From 1998 to 2005 Chris lived and worked in the UK, the US and 
Nigeria for Royal Dutch Shell in a variety of roles, including CFO for Shell’s 
offshore exploration and production business in Nigeria. Chris is a Chartered 
Accountant with degrees from the University of Glasgow and Duke University, 
and has also worked for Ernst & Young. Chris is a British citizen.
4. Jeff Hewitt Senior Independent Director 
a ppointed: 31 October 2012   
c ommittees:  Audit (Chairman), Nomination, Remuneration
c areer experience: Jeff was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee of the Company on 31 October 2012 having previously 
joined the Cookson Group plc board in June 2005 where he was also 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Following the 2013 AGM, Jeff was 
appointed as the Senior Independent Director. Jeff was previously Deputy 
Chairman and Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc. Jeff is  
a Chartered Accountant and is a British citizen.
Other appointments: Jeff is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committees of Cenkos Securities plc and Foreign & Colonial Investment 
Trust plc. He is also the Chairman of Electrocomponents Pension Trustees Ltd. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 56 7
5 6
5. Nelda c onnors Independent Non-executive Director 
a ppointed: 1 March 2013  c ommittees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration
c areer experience: Nelda was appointed as a Director of the Company 
on 1 March 2013. She served as President and Chief Executive of Tyco 
International, Electrical & Metal Products division (renamed Atkore 
International in 2010) from 2008 to 201 1, prior to which she spent six years 
at Eaton Corporation, in a number of international management roles which 
included nearly four years based in Shanghai. Nelda spent much of her early 
career in the automotive industry working for Ford, Chrysler and Mogami 
Denki, a Toyota supplier. During this period she undertook roles in general 
management, engineering, quality, customer service and strategic planning 
and worked in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific. Nelda is a US citizen.
Other appointments: Nelda is a Non-executive Director of Blount 
International, Inc., Echo Global Logistics, Inc and Boston Scientific Corporation 
and sits on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. She was  
recently assigned to the Independent Takata Quality Assurance Panel  
focused on the US airbag investigations. She is Chairwoman and Founder  
of Pine Grove Holdings, LLC, a consultancy that provides advisory services  
to private equity and investment firms and limited investments to small and 
mid-sized businesses. 
6. c hrister Gardell Non-executive Director 
a ppointed: 31 October 2012  c ommittees: Nomination
c areer experience: Christer was appointed as a Director of the Company on 
31 October 2012 having previously joined the board of Cookson Group plc in 
June 2012. Christer co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002, and continues to serve 
as Managing Partner. On 3 March 2015, Cevian Capital held just over 21 % of 
Vesuvius’ issued share capital. From 1996 to 2001, he was the Chief Executive 
Officer of AB Custos, the Swedish investment company. Prior to joining 
AB Custos he had been a partner of Nordic Capital and McKinsey & Company. 
He served as a Non-executive Director of AB Lindex until December 2007 and 
of Tieto Corporation until March 2012. Christer is a Swedish citizen.
Other appointments: Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital,  
and Vice Chairman of the global Finnish technology and services company 
Metso Corporation. 
7. Jane Hinkley Independent Non-executive Director 
a ppointed: 3 December 2012   
c ommittees:  Remuneration (Chairman), Audit, Nomination
c areer experience: Jane was appointed as a Director of the Company on 
3 December 2012. Jane became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
in June 2013. Jane spent a large part of her career working at Gotaas-Larsen 
Shipping Corporation, the LNG shipping specialist which was listed on both 
the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. She served as CFO from 1988 
to 1992, and as Managing Director until 1997 . In 1998 Jane was appointed 
Managing Director of Navion Shipping AS, a company majority owned by 
Statoil, the oil and gas company, a position she held until 2001. She previously 
held the position of Non-executive Director of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian 
exploration and production company. Jane is a Chartered Accountant and a 
British citizen. 
Other appointments: Jane is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of Premier Oil plc, an oil exploration and production 
company. She also serves as a Non-executive Director of Teekay GP L.L.C, the 
international provider of marine transportation services for Liquefied Natural 
Gas, LPG and crude oil, which is an NYSE listed partnership. 
57
Governance Group Executive committee
1 2
3 4 5
1. c hris a bbott President, Flow Control 
a ppointed: October 2008 Years with Group: 14
c areer experience: Chris was appointed President Flow Control in October 
2008. Having joined Vesuvius in 2000, Chris was appointed Vice President for 
Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering and Purchasing in 2002. Prior to joining 
Vesuvius he held a number of senior industrial and manufacturing managerial 
positions with Schlumberger’s UK and European businesses. He completed 
an Engineering apprenticeship with the Wolseley Group whilst studying 
Mechanical Engineering and Business Studies at the Birmingham Polytechnic. 
Chris is based in Belgium and is a British citizen.
2. Patrick Bikard President, Operations 
a ppointed: January 2014  Years with Group: 6
c areer experience: Patrick was appointed President Operations in January 
2014 having been Vice President for Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering 
and Purchasing since February 2008. Since joining Vesuvius, Patrick has led 
the Operations functions with an emphasis on improving safety, quality and 
reducing inventories. Patrick worked for nine years in Renault, ending as 
Director Production & Supply Chain of the Douai plant. This was followed by 
senior operational roles at Alstom and Faurecia. He has wide experience in 
creating value through customer focus, lean techniques, operations, change 
management and continuous improvement. He is a graduate from École 
Polytechnique, École des Mines de Paris and Cedep (INSEAD). Patrick is based 
in Belgium and is a French citizen.
3. George c oulston Chief Technology Officer 
a ppointed: October 2013  Years with Group: 1
c areer experience: George was appointed Chief Technology Officer in 
October 2013. Prior to joining Vesuvius, George worked for Kennametal Inc  
for nine years, where his most recent positions were VP Innovation Ventures 
and VP Marketing. During his career George also worked for DuPont, in 
research, manufacturing technology and new business development roles. 
He has wide experience in R&D, managing projects and organisations with 
additional experience in marketing and operations. George is a member of  
the Product Development & Management Association and the Association  
for Iron & Steel Technology. George has a BSc in Chemical Engineering from 
the University of Connecticut, a PhD in Engineering and Applied Science from 
Yale University and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh. George is based 
in Pittsburgh and is a US citizen.
4. Glenn c owie President, Foundry 
a ppointed: November 2014  Years with Group: 33
c areer experience: Glenn was appointed President Foundry in November 
2014, having delivered significant change in business structure and 
performance as President Advanced Refractories during the prior three years. 
He started his career in Foseco South Africa in 1981, where he held several 
technical and sales positions in both the Foundry and Steel divisions, before 
becoming the Chief Executive Sub Saharan Africa. Glenn transferred to the 
UK in an international Strategic Growth Initiative role and shortly thereafter 
was promoted to Area Director Northern Europe, based in Borken, Germany. 
Following a two-year period with Fosbel, he returned to Foseco in 2008 as 
Vice President Foundry NAFTA, and subsequently the Americas. Glenn is a 
diploma engineer in Metallurgical Engineering. Glenn is based in Cleveland 
and is a South African and British citizen.
5. Tanmay Ganguly President, Advanced Refractories 
a ppointed: November 2014  Years with Group: 7
c areer experience: Tanmay was appointed President Advanced Refractories 
in November 2014. Since joining Vesuvius in 2007 , Tanmay led the refractory 
business in India as Managing Director of Vesuvius India Ltd, and latterly as 
Vice President Flow Control and Advanced Refractories, South Asia, where  
he successfully improved both businesses’ revenue and profitability. He has 
over 25 years’ experience in the chemicals, refractory and FMCG industries, 
having held senior positions in Pillsbury India, General Mills (Pillsbury),  
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 58 6 7
8 9
General Mills India and Radhakrishna Foodland Pvt Ltd. Tanmay graduated 
from the University of Kolkata with a degree in Business Administration and 
is a Chartered Accountant of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
Tanmay is based in Barlborough, UK and is an Indian citizen. 
6. Henry Knowles General Counsel & Company Secretary 
a ppointed: September 2013  Years with Group: 1
c areer experience: Henry joined Vesuvius as General Counsel & Company 
Secretary in September 2013. Prior to joining Vesuvius, Henry spent seven 
years at Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer 
with significant operations in the Middle East and North Africa, where he held 
the roles of General Counsel, Company Secretary and also led the compliance 
function. Henry trained and practised as a corporate lawyer with Ashurst in 
London and Tokyo. He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge with a 
degree in Social and Political Science, and attended law school in London. 
Henry is based in London and is a British citizen. 
7. Luis Reyes President, Technical Services 
a ppointed: February 2015  Years with Group: 22
c areer experience: Luis was appointed to the newly created position 
of President Technical Services on 1 February 2015, to spearhead the 
development of Vesuvius’ Technical Services offering. Technical Services 
includes the recently acquired companies in the field of data capture, ECIL 
Met Tec, Process Metrix and Avemis as well as the Accumetrix*/Accuoptix™ 
product lines, and forms one of the priorities of Vesuvius’ growth strategy. 
Prior to joining the Group Executive Committee, Luis was Vice President 
Flow Control NAFTA, based in Pittsburgh, and has been a key member of 
that division’s management team since 1992. Luis is a graduate of ITESM-
Monterrey Tec. Luis is based in Pittsburgh and is a Mexican citizen.
8. Ryan van der a a Vice President, Human Resources 
a ppointed: May 2013  Years with Group: 15
c areer experience: Ryan was appointed Vice President Human Resources in 
May 2013. Ryan joined Foseco in 1999 as HR Director Europe and, prior to its 
acquisition by Cookson in 2008, was HR Director of Foseco plc for two years. 
Before 1999, Ryan held several international HR management positions in 
Indigo NV, HVA International BV and Berenschot Moret Bosboom. Ryan has 
wide experience in international organisational development and change 
processes, people development processes and international compensation 
and benefits. Ryan has a Masters of Law Degree from the University of Tilburg, 
Netherlands. Ryan is based in London and is a Dutch citizen.
9. Roel van der Sluis President, Vesuvius North Asia 
a ppointed: April 2012  Years with Group: 17
c areer experience: Roel was appointed President Vesuvius North Asia in 
April 2012. In November 2014 his remit was increased to include Foundry 
operations in China, Japan and Korea. Roel joined Foseco in 1997 when they 
acquired SMC Foundry Products from Metallgesellschaft AG where Roel led 
the European foundry division. He then held roles in M&T Northern Europe, 
Central Europe and the Middle East where he opened a number of new 
markets for Foseco before moving to China, where he was based for three 
years. Roel has wide experience in both the foundry and the steel industries 
and is a member of the German foundry institute, VDG, and the Dutch 
foundry institute NVVGT. Roel has engineering degrees from the Universities 
of Delft and Utrecht in the Netherlands and holds an AMP from INSEAD in 
France. Roel is based in Suzhou and is a Dutch citizen.
For CEO and CFO see p56
* Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries.
59
Governance Chairman’s governance letter
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Company, I am delighted 
to present the 2014 Governance report. As a 
Board we remain committed to applying the 
highest standards of corporate governance 
within Vesuvius. The Board continues to focus 
on legislative and regulatory developments 
and with the assistance of our advisers, we 
ensure that the Board captures and applies 
governance best practice, to enable us  
to discharge our duties as stewards of  
the Company.
During 2014 the Company was fully 
compliant with the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. In response to 
the changes introduced to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code during the year, we 
updated our Committee terms of reference 
and other procedures to ensure that we will 
Succession
As a Board we will always keep our 
composition and future succession 
requirements under review, to ensure that 
we are well prepared for the future needs of 
the Company. In 2015 the focus of succession 
planning will turn more to executive and 
senior management roles. This will continue 
to form a fundamental part of the Board’s 
overall review of strategy and its successful 
implementation.
Training
As part of its ongoing training and 
development remit, the Board visited R&D, 
manufacturing and customer facilities during 
the year. The Board is provided with a training 
schedule at each Board meeting and consults 
with external advisers regularly and on 
specific topics as the need arises. The Board 
engages directly with senior management, 
both through business presentations at the 
Board, discussions at Board dinners and 
through Board and individual Director visits 
to operations. We will continue to do this 
throughout 2015.
Risk
The methods by which we manage our 
risks and assess their impact are constantly 
reviewed and tested as part of our ongoing 
risk management approach. We have a well-
developed process that allows for regular 
Board input and attention. 
Looking ahead
In 2015 we will continue to develop both 
as a Board and as individual Directors. We 
welcome our new members and look forward 
to contributing towards and overseeing the 
development of Vesuvius over the next year 
and beyond.
Yours sincerely
John mcDonough c BE, Chairman 
3 March 2015
“ Strong corporate governance 
is central to the delivery 
of sustainable long-term 
shareholder value.
”
John mcDonough c BE Chairman
In this section:
 Board effectiveness on p63
 Board accountability on p65
 Audit Committee report on p67
 Nomination Committee report on p73
 Remuneration Committee report on p75
 
again be fully compliant with the enhanced 
guidance and disclosure requirements over 
the 2015 financial year.
Board composition
As I have already reported in my opening 
letter, Jeff Hewitt, our Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, will step down following nine 
years of outstanding service to both Cookson 
Group plc and Vesuvius plc. Through the work 
of the Nomination Committee, Hock Goh and 
Douglas Hurt have been identified as new 
independent Non-executive Directors both to 
succeed Jeff Hewitt and also to supplement 
and deepen the skills and experience available 
at the Board table. I am extremely pleased 
to welcome them both to the Board and 
encourage you as shareholders to support 
their election at the 2015 AGM. I believe that 
the Board’s composition continues to fulfil 
our requirements for expertise, experience 
and diversity, and is well equipped to face the 
continuing role of setting and managing the 
strategic direction of the business. 
Evaluation
In 2013, our Board evaluation identified 
the importance of spending an appropriate 
amount of time dedicated to Group strategy 
and succession planning, particularly in light 
of the time demands generated by increasing 
and evolving governance and compliance 
obligations on all listed companies. I can 
confirm, as evidenced by our 2014 Board 
evaluation, that these topics have received 
extensive attention from the Board during 
the year. 
In 2014, the Board once again commissioned 
an externally moderated evaluation of 
the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors. The results showed that the 
Board and its Directors continue to perform 
effectively and were well supported by internal 
and external resources. Matters identified 
for specific attention in the 2013 Board 
evaluation have been satisfactorily addressed, 
and the Board dynamics as a whole showed 
an increase in effectiveness both individually 
and collectively. It is considered that the Board 
continues to deliver an open forum for debate 
and considered decision making. Priorities for 
the Board identified by the 2014 evaluation 
remain the same – a continuing focus on the 
delivery of Group strategy and securing the 
future of Vesuvius through effective succession 
planning and talent development.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 60 Governance report
The Board of Vesuvius plc (the “Company”) 
is responsible for the Group’s system of 
corporate governance and is committed to 
maintaining high standards and to developing 
governance arrangements to comply with 
best practice. This report describes the 
Company’s corporate governance structure 
and explains how, during the year ended 
31 December 2014, Vesuvius has applied 
the main principles of the September 2012 
edition of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council (the “Code”). Throughout the year 
and up until the date of this report Vesuvius 
was in full compliance with the requirements 
of the Code. A copy of the Code can be found 
on the FRC website at https://www.frc.org.
uk/Our-Work/Codes-Standards/Corporate-
governance/UK-Corporate-Governance-
Code.aspx.
Roles and responsibilities of the Board
Ultimate responsibility for the management of 
the Group rests with the Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic 
and policy issues and is responsible for the 
Group’s long-term success. It sets the Group’s 
strategy, oversees the allocation of resources 
and monitors the performance of the Group 
in pursuit of this, all within a framework of 
prudent and effective control which enables 
risks to be assessed and managed.
The Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it and delegates certain matters  
to its Committees. It is anticipated that the 
Board will convene on seven scheduled 
occasions during 2015 as well as holding 
ad hoc meetings to consider non-routine 
business if required.
The c hairman and c hief Executive 
The division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out 
in writing and was reviewed during the year 
as part of the Company’s annual corporate 
governance review. No amendments were 
required. The interactions in the governance 
process are shown on the schematic below.
Board c ommittees
The principal governance Committees of 
the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. Each Committee 
has written terms of reference, which were 
reviewed and updated where appropriate 
by the Board during the year. These are 
available to view on the Company’s website 
www.vesuvius.com.
Responsible for Group strategy, 
risk management and policy 
issues. Monitors the Group’s 
progress against the targets set
The Board
Provides leadership and guidance for 
the Board, promoting a high standard of 
corporate governance. Sets the Board agenda 
and manages meetings. Independent on 
appointment, he is the link between the 
Executive and Non-executive Directors
Develops strategy for review and 
approval of the Board. Directs, 
monitors and maintains the operational 
performance of the Company. 
Responsible for the application of  
Group policies and implementation  
of Group strategy. Accountable to  
the Board for Group performance
c hief Executive
Governance structure 
Advises the Chairman on 
governance, together with 
updates on regulatory and 
compliance matters. Supports 
the Board agenda with clear 
information flow. Acts as a 
link between the Board and its 
Committees and between NEDs 
and senior management
c ompany 
Secretary
Exercise a strong, independent voice, 
challenging and supporting Executive 
Directors. Scrutinise performance 
against objectives and monitor reporting 
performance. Monitor and oversee 
financial risk and controls, determine 
Executive Director remuneration and 
manage Board succession through their 
Committee responsibilities
Non-executive 
Directors 
(NEDs)
Acts as a sounding board for 
the Chairman, an alternative 
contact to the Chairman and 
as an intermediary for other 
Non-executive Directors. Leads 
the annual evaluation of the 
Chairman and recruitment 
process for his/her replacement, 
when required
Senior 
Independent 
Director
c hairman
61
Governance Governance report continued
Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership
audit To monitor the integrity of financial 
reporting and to assist the Board in  
its review of the effectiveness of  
the Group’s internal controls and  
risk management systems
Jeff Hewitt All independent Non-executive 
Directors
Remuneration To determine the appropriate 
remuneration packages for the 
Group’s Chairman, Executive Directors, 
and Company Secretary, and to 
recommend and monitor the level  
and structure of remuneration for  
other senior management
Jane Hinkley All independent Non-executive 
Directors
Nomination To advise the Board on appointments, 
retirements and resignations from  
the Board and its Committees and 
review succession planning and  
talent development for the Board
John McDonough, the Chairman 
(except when considering his 
own succession in which case the 
Committee is chaired by an appropriate 
Non-executive Director)
The Chairman and any three  
Non-executive Directors
In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Share Schemes Committee, which 
operate in accordance with the delegation of authority agreed by the Board.
Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership
Finance To approve specific funding and 
treasury-related matters in accordance 
with the Group’s delegated authorities 
or as delegated by the Board
John McDonough, the Chairman The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief 
Financial Officer and Group Treasurer
Share Schemes To facilitate the administration of 
the Company’s share schemes
Any Board member Any two Directors or a Director and the 
Company Secretary
The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee (“GEC”), which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and assists him in 
discharging his responsibilities. The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the four business unit Presidents, the President 
Vesuvius North Asia, the Vice President Human Resources, the Chief Technology Officer, the President Operations and the General Counsel & 
Company Secretary. The Executive Committee met seven times during 2014 and is scheduled to meet eight times during 2015. Its meetings are 
held between the London head office and major operational sites. Biographical details of the GEC members are set out on pages 58 and 59.
Board and c ommittee attendance
The attendance of Directors who served between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014, at the Board meetings and principal Committees of 
which they were a member held during this period, is shown in the table below. The maximum number of meetings in the period during which 
the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
c hairman
John McDonough CBE 11 (11) 3 (3)
Executive Directors
François Wanecq 11 (11)
Chris O’Shea 11 (11)
Non-executive Directors
Nelda Connors 9 (11) 4 (5) 2 (4) 2 (3)
Christer Gardell 11 (11) 2 (3) 
Jeff Hewitt 11 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 3 (3)
Jane Hinkley 10 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 3 (3)
NOTES
1. Nelda Connors was unable to attend the meetings held in February for personal reasons, and was unable to attend the December meetings due to international travel issues.
2. Christer Gardell could not attend a later than scheduled Nomination Committee meeting held in October due to a prior commitment.
3. Jane Hinkley was unable to attend the Board meeting held at short notice in November due to telecommunications difficulties whilst overseas.
1 1 1 1
2
3
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 62 To the extent that Directors are unable to 
attend scheduled meetings, or additional 
meetings called on short notice, they receive the 
papers in advance and relay their comments 
to the Chairman for communication at the 
meeting. The Chairman follows up after the 
meeting in relation to the decisions taken. 
 
BOa RD EFFEc TIVENESS
Board composition
The Board currently comprises seven 
Directors – the Non-executive Chairman, 
John McDonough CBE; the Chief Executive, 
François Wanecq; the Chief Financial Officer, 
Chris O’Shea; and four Non-executive 
Directors, three of whom are deemed to 
be independent for the purposes of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Jeff Hewitt 
is the Senior Independent Director. Henry 
Knowles is the Company Secretary. In 
addition, the Company has today announced 
the appointment of two new Non-executive 
Directors – Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt 
– who will join the Board with effect from 
2 April 2015. Jeff Hewitt will retire as a 
Director of Vesuvius plc at the 2015 AGM. 
Douglas Hurt will then become Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and assume the role of 
Senior Independent Director. 
The Board’s policy on diversity focuses on 
ensuring that both it, and its Committees, 
have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge 
of the Company to enable them to discharge 
their duties and responsibilities effectively. 
The Board continues to look at diversity in 
its broadest sense; this is reflected in the 
range of backgrounds and experience of 
our Board members who are drawn from 
different nationalities and have significant 
experience of managing complex global 
businesses. We believe that it is important 
to get the right balance of independence, 
skills and knowledge, both on the Board and 
across our businesses. The Board supports the 
recommendations of Lord Davies’ report on 
gender diversity and complies with the target 
set for FTSE 100 boards.
The Board’s overall skills and experience, as 
well as Non-executive Director independence, 
were reviewed during the year as part of the 
annual corporate governance review. The 
Board’s composition also formed part of the 
Board evaluation process. The Board considers 
its diversity, size and composition to be 
appropriate for the requirements of the 
business. Two of the seven Directors (29%) 
are women and three (43%) are non-UK 
citizens. 
The Board will continue to review its structure 
regularly to ensure that it comprises the 
appropriate balance of skills, experience and 
diversity, with an ongoing focus on ensuring 
appropriate training and development 
opportunities are provided for all Directors. 
Committee composition is set out in the 
relevant Committee reports. No one other 
than the Committee Chairman and members 
of the Committee is entitled to participate 
in meetings of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees, but others may 
attend by invitation.
The Board considers that half the Board, 
(excluding the Non-executive Chairman) 
namely Nelda Connors, Jeff Hewitt and Jane 
Hinkley remain independent of management 
and free from any business or other 
relationship which could affect the exercise 
of their independent judgement. Christer 
Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital 
which holds 21. 1 1 % of Vesuvius’ issued 
ordinary share capital and is not considered 
to be independent. He brings a wealth 
of commercial acumen to the Board. The 
Chairman satisfied the independence criteria 
on his appointment to the Board. Biographical 
details of the current Directors are set out on 
pages 56 and 57 .
a ppointments to the Board 
Recommendations for appointments to 
the Board are made by the Nomination 
Committee. The Nomination Committee 
follows a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors. Board appointments are made on 
merit against objective criteria, selecting the 
best candidate for the post. Non-executive 
appointees are also required to demonstrate 
that they have sufficient time to devote 
to the role. The Nomination Committee is 
responsible for reviewing Board succession 
to ensure that plans are in place for the 
appropriate refreshing and orderly succession 
of Board members. Further information is set 
out in the Nomination Committee report on 
pages 73 and 74. 
Time commitment of the c hairman 
and the Non-executive Directors 
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors 
each have a letter of appointment which 
sets out the terms and conditions of 
their directorship. An indication of the 
anticipated time commitment is provided 
in any recruitment role specification, and 
each Director’s letter of appointment 
provides details of the meetings that they are 
expected to attend, along with the need to 
accommodate travelling time (particularly for 
overseas trips). Non-executive Directors are 
required to set aside sufficient time to prepare 
for meetings, and regularly to refresh and 
update their skills and knowledge. All Non-
executive Directors have agreed to commit 
sufficient time for the proper performance 
of their responsibilities, acknowledging that 
this will vary from year to year depending 
on the Group’s activities. Directors are 
expected to attend all scheduled Board and 
Committee meetings and any additional 
meetings as required. Each Director’s other 
significant commitments are disclosed to 
the Board at the time of their appointment 
and they are required to notify the Board of 
any subsequent changes. The Company has 
reviewed the availability of the Non-executive 
Directors and considers that each of them 
is able to, and in practice does, devote the 
necessary amount of time to the Company’s 
business.
63
Governance Induction and training
A comprehensive induction programme 
is available to new Directors. This is 
tailored to meet the requirements of the 
individual appointee, and includes visits to 
manufacturing facilities, meetings with key 
Group executives and introductions to the 
Company’s principal external advisers, as 
appropriate. Reference materials are provided, 
including information about the Board, its 
Committees, Directors’ duties, procedures for 
dealing in the Company’s shares and other 
regulatory and governance matters. Directors 
are advised of their legal and other duties and 
obligations as Directors of a listed company. 
The Company Secretary monitors this process 
and ensures that if, after a certain period 
of appointment, new Directors feel that 
they have not received sufficient induction 
information, support for any subsequent 
requirements is supplied.
The Chairman, through the Company 
Secretary, continues to ensure that there is 
an ongoing process to review training and 
development needs. Directors are provided 
with details of seminars and training courses 
relevant to their role. They are encouraged to 
attend these as they consider appropriate and 
are supported by the Company in doing so. 
Where a general training need is identified,  
in-house training is provided to the entire 
Board. Regulatory updates are provided as 
a standing item at each Board meeting in a 
Secretary’s Report. 
Information and support
The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely 
manner, information of an appropriate 
quality to enable it to adequately discharge 
its responsibilities. Papers are provided to the 
Directors in advance of the relevant Board or 
Committee meeting to enable them to make 
further enquiries about any matters prior to 
the meeting should they so wish. This also 
allows Directors who are unable to attend  
to submit views in advance of the meeting.
In addition to the formal processes, the 
Chief Executive provides written updates on 
important Company business issues and the 
Board is provided with monthly updates on 
key financial and management information. 
Regular updates on shareholder issues and 
discussions are provided to the Board, who 
also receives copies of analysts’ notes issued 
on the Company. Directors have access to a 
secure online portal used for the distribution 
of all information.
All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary. There 
is also an agreed procedure in place for 
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, 
to take independent legal advice at the 
Company’s expense.
Performance evaluation
In accordance with the provisions of the 
Code, the Chairman led a formal and rigorous 
evaluation of the Board’s performance and 
effectiveness during the year, together with 
an evaluation of the performance of the 
Board’s Committees and an individual review 
of each Board member. In addition, the Senior 
Independent Director led an evaluation of the 
performance of the Chairman. The Company 
engaged an external moderator, Lintstock Ltd, 
an independent advisory firm that provides 
advice to the Company on governance 
matters and practices.
The 2014 evaluation built on the themes 
identified from the 2013 review, in addition to 
which Lintstock consulted with the Chairman, 
Company Secretary and the Chairmen of each 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
in the formulation of the content and focus of 
the 2014 evaluation. Lintstock also examined 
the balance of individual skills and experience, 
independence, and knowledge of the 
Company amongst the Directors, together 
with Board diversity (including gender) and 
Board interaction and effectiveness as part of 
the evaluation. Lintstock collated responses 
from participants and presented an analysis 
of the results to the Chairman. This analysis 
was circulated to the Board and formed the 
basis of one-on-one discussions conducted 
by the Chairman with each member of the 
Board and the Company Secretary. These 
conversations also covered the output from 
the individual Director reviews. Finally, specific 
action points generated from the 2013 Board 
evaluation were reviewed at the December 
Board meeting, where it was reported 
that during the year, these had either been 
addressed or, where they represented  
longer-term goals, considerable progress  
had been made.
The overall outcome of the evaluation was 
that the Board and its individual Directors 
are performing effectively, that the Board 
continues to promote open debate and is 
well-supported in terms of information flow. 
The priorities the Board identified included a 
continued focus on the delivery of the Group’s 
strategy and securing the future of Vesuvius 
through effective succession planning. As a 
result of the evaluation, the Board has tasked 
the Nomination Committee with focusing 
on producing a more detailed succession 
plan identifying high potential individuals 
throughout the organisation. 
a ppointment and replacement 
of Directors
The Board membership should not be 
fewer than five nor more than 15, save that 
the Company may, by ordinary resolution, 
from time to time vary this minimum and/
or maximum number of Directors. Directors 
may be appointed by ordinary resolution 
or by the Board. A Director appointed by 
the Board must retire from office at the first 
Annual General Meeting (“ AGM”) after his/
her appointment. A Director who retires in 
this way is then eligible for reappointment. 
The Board may appoint one or more Directors 
to any executive office, on such terms and 
for such period as it thinks fit and it can also 
terminate or vary such an appointment at 
any time. The Articles specify that at every 
AGM, any Director who has been appointed 
by the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM 
and any Director who held office at the time 
of the two preceding AGMs and who did 
not retire at either of them, shall retire from 
office. However, in accordance with the 
requirements of the Code, all the Directors 
will offer themselves for re-election at this 
year’s AGM. The biographical details of each 
of the Directors who are offering themselves 
for re-election, including details of their 
other directorships and relevant skills and 
experience, will be set out in the 2015 Notice 
of AGM. The biographical details of the 
current Directors are set out on pages 56 and 
57 . The Board believes that each of the current 
Directors standing for re-election is effective 
and demonstrates commitment to his/her 
respective role. In addition the Board believes 
that the new independent Non-executive 
Directors, Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt, 
who will join the Board on 2 April 2015, will 
serve as valuable additions to the Board. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends that 
shareholders approve the resolutions to  
be proposed at the 2015 AGM relating  
to the election and re-election of all the 
Directors standing.
Governance report continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 64 Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board has established a formal system 
to authorise situations where a Director has 
an interest that conflicts, or may possibly 
conflict, with the interests of the Company 
(“Situational Conflicts”). Directors declare 
Situational Conflicts so that they can be 
considered for authorisation by the non-
conflicted Directors. In considering a 
Situational Conflict these Directors act in the 
way they consider would be most likely to 
promote the success of the Company, and 
may impose limits or conditions when giving 
authorisation or subsequently if they think 
this is appropriate. The Company Secretary 
records the consideration of any conflict and 
records any authorisations granted. The Board 
believes that the system it has in place for 
reporting Situational Conflicts continues to 
operate effectively. No Situational Conflicts 
were brought to the Board for authorisation 
during the year under review. 
BOa RD a cc OUNTa BILITY
The a udit c ommittee
The members of the Audit Committee are set 
out on page 67 . The Audit Committee report 
which describes the Audit Committee’s work 
in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on 
pages 67 to 72.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
establishing and maintaining a system of 
risk management and internal control, and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. This system is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
the risks facing the Group and safeguard 
its assets. No system of internal control can 
provide absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Group’s system 
is designed to provide the Directors with 
reasonable assurance that problems are 
identified on a timely basis and are dealt  
with appropriately. The Audit Committee 
assists the Board in reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
control, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management 
systems. The key features of the Group’s 
system of internal control are set out below.
Reviewing the Effectiveness  
of internal control
The internal control system covers the Group 
as a whole, and is monitored and supported 
by the Group’s internal audit function, which 
conducts reviews of Vesuvius’ businesses and 
reports objectively both on the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the system of internal control 
and on those businesses’ compliance with 
Group policies and procedures. The Audit 
Committee receives reports from the Group 
Head of Internal Audit and reports to the 
Board on the results of its review.
Process Elements
Strategy and  
financial reporting
•  Comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process 
•  Annual budget approved by the Board
•  Monthly operating financial information reported against budget
•  Key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate.
Vesuvius Gaa P •  Accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations
•  Covers the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial 
control procedures.
Operational controls •  Operating companies and corporate offices maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure 
and business environment
•  Compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions 
and the management of intellectual property, and regulatory issues
•  Use of common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting 
and consolidation
•  Significant financing and investment decisions reserved to the Board
•  The Board monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
Risk assessment  
and management
•  Continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks
•  Risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business
•  Reports made to the Board on how those risks are managed
•  Each major Group business unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring,  
their impact and mitigating actions
•  The Board reviews insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group
•  The Board is notified of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed.
65
Governance As part of the Board’s process for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control, it delegates certain matters to the 
Audit Committee.
Following the Audit Committee’s review 
of internal financial controls and of the 
processes covering other controls, the Board 
annually evaluates the results of the internal 
control and risk management procedures 
conducted by senior management. This 
includes a self-certification exercise by which 
senior financial, operational and functional 
management throughout the Group certify 
their compliance throughout the year with  
the Group’s policies and procedures.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, 
the Directors confirm that they have reviewed 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal control and that the necessary actions 
have been taken to remedy any control 
weaknesses identified during the year. 
Since the date of this review there have been 
no significant changes in internal controls  
or other matters which could significantly 
affect them.
Executive compensation and risk
All of the independent Non-executive 
Directors serve on both the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. They therefore 
bring their experience and knowledge of 
the activities of each Committee to bear 
when considering the critical judgements 
of the other. This means that the Directors 
are in a position to consider carefully the 
impact of incentive arrangements on the 
Group’s risk profile and to ensure the Group’s 
remuneration policy and programme are 
structured so as to accord with the long-term 
objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
Share capital and voting
Disclosure of the information regarding share 
capital, the authorisation received by Directors 
at the AGM regarding the issue of shares 
and the authority to purchase own shares, is 
contained on page 95 of the Directors’ report. 
There are no restrictions on voting contained 
in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Further details are set out in the Directors’ 
report on page 96.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to communicating 
with shareholders and stakeholders in 
a clear and open manner, and seeks to 
ensure effective engagement through the 
Company’s regular communications, the 
AGM and other investor relations activities. 
The Company undertakes an ongoing 
programme of meetings with investors, which 
is managed by the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer. The majority of meetings 
with investors are led by them. The Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director and Committee 
Chairs also remain open for discussion with 
shareholders on matters under their areas of 
responsibility, either through contacting the 
Company Secretary or directly at the AGM. 
The Company reports its financial results 
to shareholders twice a year, with the 
publication of its Annual and Half-year 
financial reports. In 2014, it also issued 
two Interim management statements. In 
conjunction with these announcements, 
presentations or teleconference calls are 
held with institutional investors and analysts. 
Recordings of these are made available on  
the Group’s website www.vesuvius.com 
along with copies of any presentation 
materials issued.
Regular updates on shareholder issues and 
discussions are provided to the Board. Board 
members also receive copies of significant 
analysts’ notes issued on the Company. 
All Directors are expected to attend the 
Company’s AGM, providing shareholders 
with the opportunity to question them  
about issues relating to the Group, either 
during the meeting or informally afterwards.
Governance report continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 66 c ommittee members
Jeff Hewitt (Committee Chairman)  
Nelda Connors 
Jane Hinkley
The a udit c ommittee
The Audit Committee comprises all of the 
independent Non-executive Directors of the 
Company. The members bring a wide range 
of financial and commercial expertise to the 
Committee’s deliberations. I continued to be 
the Committee Chairman. I am a qualified 
accountant and have the required recent and 
relevant financial experience. Hock Goh and 
Douglas Hurt will join the Committee on their 
appointment to the Board on 2 April 2015. 
Douglas Hurt is my designated successor as 
Chairman and he will assume the position 
when I retire from the Board at the close of 
the AGM in May 2015. His background as 
CFO of IMI plc and current Chair of the Audit 
Committee of Tate & Lyle PLC make him 
eminently suitable to lead the Committee. 
Hock Goh’s experience in Asia will broaden 
the Committee’s understanding in a key 
region for the Group. The Company  
Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. 
meetings
The Committee met five times during the 
year. We continue to operate in an inclusive 
manner. Hence, the Board Chairman, non-
independent Non-executive Director, Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group 
Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit 
and the external auditor KPMG, were invited 
to each meeting. Other management were 
also invited to attend as appropriate. I believe 
that this openness continues to enhance the 
quality and transparency of the Committee’s 
work and the communication of its 
deliberations with the Board, executives and 
auditors. The Committee also met privately 
with KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit 
without any executives being present, and  
I met informally with KPMG and with 
the Head of Internal Audit between the 
scheduled meetings to discuss any emerging 
issues. This “ avoidance of surprises” approach 
was reinforced by our regular meetings  
with a range of executives during site visits, 
informal meetings and Board presentations. 
The outcomes of meetings were reported 
to the Board and all members of the Board 
received the agenda, papers and minutes.
Roles and responsibilities
The primary roles and responsibilities of the 
Committee remained the same as in 2013, 
and again included advice to the Board on 
whether the Committee believed the Annual 
report and accounts taken as a whole, was 
fair, balanced and understandable. 
The Committee operates under formal 
Terms of Reference which the Committee 
reviewed and updated during the year and 
which were subsequently approved by the 
Board. This year the Terms of Reference were 
updated significantly for the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued in September 2014 
by the Finance Reporting Council, for the 
requirements of the Competition & Markets 
Authority (“CMA ”) Order and also partly  
for the anticipated requirements of the  
EU Commission Regulations on Statutory 
Audits. Most of these changes relate to 
Committee activities and reporting in 2015 
and later years. The Terms of Reference  
are available on the Group’s website  
www.vesuvius.com. Within these Terms  
the Committee and its individual members 
are empowered to obtain outside legal or 
other independent professional advice (at the 
cost of the Company). Such powers were not 
required during the year. The Committee may 
also secure the attendance at its meetings of 
any employee or other parties with relevant 
experience and expertise should it be 
considered necessary. 
a ctivities in 2014
In 2014 we focused on the “second year” 
of reporting changes arising from guidance 
introduced in 2013. We also considered 
the implications for future reporting of the 
more recently announced UK Corporate 
Governance Code requirements relating to 
risks and viability. The Committee agreed 
with management not to early adopt these 
changes for 2014, but to implement them 
fully in 2015, when the implications will  
be clearer. 
In forming our views, I and the other 
members of the Committee believe that 
we received sufficient, relevant and reliable 
information from management and the 
external auditor, to enable us to discharge 
fully our responsibilities. 
Financial reporting
We fulfilled our primary responsibility to 
review the integrity of the half-year and 
annual financial statements and recommend 
their acceptance to the Board. We also 
considered the Interim management 
statements.
In forming our views, we assessed: 
•  The quality, acceptability and consistency  
of the accounting policies and practices 
•  The clarity and consistency of the 
disclosures, including compliance with 
relevant financial reporting standards and 
other reporting requirements 
•  Significant issues where management 
judgements and/or estimates have been 
made that are material to the reporting or 
where discussions have taken place with the 
external auditor in arriving at the judgement 
or estimate 
•  At the request of the Board, whether the 
Annual report and accounts taken as a 
whole is fair, balanced and understandable, 
taking into consideration all the information 
available to the Committee
•  The application of the FRC’s guidance on 
clear and concise reporting to the Annual 
report and accounts. 
The Committee actively deliberated on 
reports from the Chief Financial Officer and 
Group Financial Controller. These were well 
prepared and analysed various alternatives, 
as appropriate, relating to areas of judgement 
and/or estimation. KPMG also delivered 
memoranda for the half-year and year-end, 
stating their views on significant issues. 
KPMG provided a summary for each issue, 
including their assessment of the prudence 
of management’s judgements or estimates. 
The Committee considered the overall 
degree of prudence applied this year and in 
comparison with the prior year. Importantly, 
the Committee agreed with KPMG that 
the judgements made were cautious, but 
not overly prudent, and similar to last year. 
I believe that consistency of judgement 
over time remains a critical consideration, 
so that the trend in reported performance 
is not distorted by differing judgements by 
management on issues that span more than 
one reporting period. 
Audit Committee
67
Governance KPMG proposed no material audit 
adjustments arising from their year-end  
audit, which provided additional comfort  
to the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed management’s 
assessment of IFRS 15 – Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers, which will be 
effective from January 2017 (but has not yet 
been endorsed by the EU). The preliminary 
assessment indicates that the impact on 
consolidated financial statements is not 
expected to be significant.
Management is also currently assessing the 
impact of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments, on 
its consolidated financial statements. IFRS 9, 
which will be effective from 1 January 2018 
(although it has not yet been endorsed by  
the EU), will introduce revised guidance  
on the classification and measurement of 
financial assets.
Significant issues and material 
judgements
Last year, I distinguished between issues that 
arose in the year and ongoing topics that 
persist from year to year. This year two of 
the significant issues have related to matters 
not new in the year, but where important 
developments have occurred that required 
particular judgement. Other ongoing topics 
have been and are covered regularly in the 
accounts and are generally common topics 
across many companies. 
Significant issues arising from developments 
in the year: 
•  Recognition of US deferred tax asset 
In 2013 the Group recognised £29.2m of 
deferred tax as an asset after extensive 
modelling of likely future profits in the US. 
As noted last year and detailed on page 
1 17 , the Group has significant additional tax 
losses and other timing differences in the US 
and elsewhere which were not recognised, 
though it was agreed that these would be 
kept under review. This year the prospects 
for future US profits have improved and so 
management has increased confidence  
in the ongoing profitability over a longer 
time scale. 
 Consequently a further £24.8m of deferred 
tax asset has been recognised this year to 
give a year-end provision of £54.0m as 
detailed on page 30. The recognition of 
losses and their use is a highly technical area 
where the Committee has drawn on internal 
experts to understand the treatment. We 
reviewed the modelling and the implications 
for the reported tax rate and concluded 
that this further recognition was consistent 
with the estimation applied last year. In 
forming our view we also considered the 
implications for the effective tax rate used 
in the accounts. Taking all the inputs into 
account the Committee concurred with 
the views of management, but emphasised 
that this issue would remain an important 
judgement area for some time.
•  Provisions The Committee challenged the 
level of provisions established in a number 
of areas. Total provisions as detailed on 
page 146 amounted to £52.7m. The level of 
provisions held in respect of open litigation 
matters that can go on for many years is an 
area of judgement. A number of large claims 
were resolved during the year through 
mediation and settlement. A provision of 
£6.9m relating to the MacDermid litigation 
is referred to in Note 33 on page 146. 
Provisioning for future potential costs 
associated with businesses disposed of or 
closed, or restructured, is a further area 
where long-term judgements are required 
such as those arising from the disposal 
of Precious Metals in 2013. In 2014 this 
particular issue was less significant whilst 
the VAT claim detailed in the 2013 report 
has been largely resolved. As last year, 
the Committee examined expert advice 
on the relevant areas of litigation claims, 
environmental liabilities, warranty limitation 
periods and indirect taxes together with 
any other significant provisions in forming 
its views. The Committee concluded that 
the overall level of provisions is stated 
appropriately.
Significant ongoing topics considered were:
•  Income tax payable and provisions 
Provisioning for income tax remains a 
complex area where judgements are made, 
for example, on provisions relating to 
taxes that might arise from transfer pricing 
policies. The Committee agreed the basis 
of the provision of £44.9m for income tax 
payable and provisions as set out in Note 
1 1.5 on page 1 18. Though the Group’s 
policy on tax planning is not aggressive, 
the Committee is aware that all corporate 
tax affairs are under increased scrutiny. 
Discussions with internal tax experts were 
held and the results of recent tax audits 
considered in forming the Committee’s 
decision to concur with management’s 
view.
•  Working capital provisions Given that 
the trading of the Group’s steel and foundry 
industry customers was difficult in some 
regions and sectors during the year as 
noted in the divisional reviews, particular 
attention was paid to the working capital 
reserves held against receivables and 
inventories (Notes 19 and 20 respectively) to 
ensure that appropriate levels in the current 
trading context have been established. 
The Committee was assured that the 
provisioning reflected reasonable estimates.
•  Impairment of intangible assets The 
carrying value of goodwill and other 
intangible assets, being some £561.4m 
and £142.5m at year-end, respectively, 
was tested against the recent and planned 
performance of the cash-generating 
units and the Committee agreed that no 
impairment charge was required. The 
detailed assumptions, provided in Note 
18, were similar overall to last year with 
appropriate changes to discount rates and 
cash flow projections. The changes were 
evaluated by the Committee in light of 
Board-agreed medium-term business plans, 
longer-term projections and expert views 
on discount rates. The models indicated that 
there is significant headroom between the 
in use value and the carrying value.
Audit Committee continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 68 •  Pensions The complexities of the 
pension accounting and appropriateness 
of assumptions used (described in Note 
29) were considered carefully by the 
Committee, as small changes in the 
assumptions would have material effects 
and bond yields in particular have been 
volatile. The assumptions made by 
management for each of the major schemes 
were compared by KPMG with other  
similar schemes. The Committee agreed  
the reasonableness of the assumptions. 
In overview, the Committee resolved that the 
judgements and estimates made on each 
of the significant issues considered by the 
Committee were appropriate and acceptable.
Fair, balanced and understandable 
reporting 
The Committee assessed all information 
available to it in considering the overall 
drafting of the Annual report and accounts 
and the process by which it was compiled 
and reviewed, to enable it to provide advice 
to the Board that the Annual report is fair, 
balanced and understandable. In doing so the 
Committee ensured that more time was again 
dedicated to the drafting process so that 
linkages and consistencies could be worked 
through and tested. Drafts were reviewed 
by knowledgeable executives not directly 
involved in the year-end process. I and the 
Committee are satisfied that positive advice 
could be and was provided to the Board. 
Internal controls 
The Committee considered the process 
by which management evaluated internal 
controls across the Group. The Head of 
Internal Audit provided the Committee 
with a summary overview of the assurance 
provided by the controls and of the testing 
of these controls. Additionally, KPMG 
reviewed controls in the businesses within 
the scope of their year-end audit and this 
also indicated good control environments 
with overall further improvements on last 
year. Weaknesses were noted however, in 
the Vesuvius Brazil Steel business where 
management changes and the introduction 
of a new ERP system put strain on the 
routine control processes. New management 
supported by experienced managers 
from other operations have focused on 
stabilising the use of the new system and 
installed appropriate financial reporting 
controls. Group Finance management and 
Internal Audit have visited and carried out 
extensive testing, including examination of 
reconciliations. KPMG’s year-end audit was 
substantive and no material exceptions  
were found. Important lessons have been 
learnt by management from the Brazilian 
experience that will be deployed in future 
system changes. 
The Group is made up of several large 
operating units, but also many small 
ones in geographically diverse locations. 
Consequently, segregation of duties, 
overlapping access controls on systems 
and remote management oversight can 
give rise to control vulnerabilities and fraud 
opportunities. In late March there was an 
attempted fraud at one operation, but this 
was thwarted and no loss incurred. In Brazil 
the weak controls earlier in the year permitted 
two small frauds perpetrated by past 
employees, which the reconciliation process 
revealed. The oversight and strengthening 
in controls should stop such opportunistic 
fraud. In 2014, and continuing into 2015, the 
internal audit coverage has been intensified 
in light of such risks with more coverage of 
smaller units. To test compensatory controls, 
this year at the behest of the Committee and 
the CFO, the external auditor performed 
enhanced procedures on the balance sheet 
reconciliation processes in the businesses 
within their audit scope. Thorough 
reconciliations are an important control 
safeguard. This review indicated generally 
sound reconciliation methodology  
including appropriate follow-up of the 
reconciling items.
A review of systems installations was also 
carried out within the audit to determine how 
the Group’s infrastructure compared with 
other similar groups. Though the Group has 
not standardised on a particular ERP system, 
the infrastructure is not dissimilar to other 
groups. Over time, management intends to 
move to more sharing of services, enabled by 
process and systems standardisation between 
businesses and this is likely to improve 
the overall internal controls in the smaller 
operating units. The Committee found the 
review a useful update on understanding how 
much the audit process could rely on systems 
controls as against more substantive testing.
An examination of the Group’s Anti-
Bribery and Corruption policies and their 
implementation locally is being carried out 
by an expert firm for the Company Secretary 
and the Board. This phased work aims to 
refresh the established existing policies and 
procedures. To date, the Committee has been 
reassured by the output.
Each year the senior financial, operational and 
functional management of the businesses 
self-certify compliance with Group policies 
and procedures, which provides another 
safeguard. This was carried out without 
material exception at the end of 2014.
After considering these various inputs, the 
Committee was able to provide its assurance 
to the Board on the effectiveness of internal 
control within the Group. 
The Committee also continued its monitoring 
and oversight of the procedures for the 
receipt, retention and treatment of complaints 
by employees. This is an independent and 
confidential service worldwide where 
employees may register any concerns about 
any incorrect or irregular practices they 
perceive in their workplace. The very limited 
number of issues raised in the year were 
followed up appropriately. The size of the 
number, however, gave the Committee 
concern as to whether the process is 
effective enough. The Company Secretary 
has undertaken a review to strengthen 
the communication of the “Speak Up” 
facility across the Group, which will be fully 
implemented during 2015. 
Internal audit
The Group’s Internal Audit function operates 
on a global basis through professionally 
qualified and experienced individual members 
located in major centres, who report to the 
Head of Internal Audit based in London.  
She in turn reports directly to me. 
As I mentioned last year, the Head of Internal 
Audit had just been recruited from a similar 
role at a UK-based international group. Her 
experience has been brought to bear on 
reinvigorating and strengthening the internal 
audit practices, reporting and follow-up. 
To support this process the Committee 
agreed a review of internal audit processes 
by specialists from PwC. This determined a 
number of areas for improvement consistent 
69
Governance with current good practice in similar groups. 
The development plan that ensued is in 
the final stages of implementation and the 
Committee is content with the progress 
being made. This is not to imply that previous 
internal audit work had been weak or 
inadequate, but the disciplines, effectiveness 
and efficiency of audits have improved and 
will continue to improve through 2015. As 
in previous years, the Internal Audit team 
carried out assignments in accordance with 
an annual internal audit plan approved by 
the Committee. The 2014 plan was based 
on assessed risks and aimed to cover all 
operations on a three-year cycle as the 
minimum. For 2015 the plan includes a  
wider set of risk considerations, and has 
enhanced objectives. 
In 2014, 63 audit assignments were 
undertaken covering 32% of the Group’s 
revenue and 31 % of the Group’s profit before 
tax. The Committee reviewed progress 
against the agreed plan and discussed recent 
reports with the Head of Internal Audit 
at each of its meetings. PwC was used as 
outsourced providers to ensure a satisfactory 
completion (93%) of the agreed audit plan. 
The outsourcing process was a valuable 
learning process and more outsourcing in 
specialist areas or geographies will be used 
in the future. Where control issues or other 
problems were flagged by the fieldwork, the 
Committee ensured appropriate and timely 
action by the responsible management, 
involving senior management as necessary, 
with a follow-up review. As noted above, 
Brazil was the main cause for concern in  
the year. 
An internal perceptions survey of the quality 
and effectiveness of internal audit was again 
undertaken and the team scored highly 
on their approach. I would expect the high 
standing with which internal audit is held 
within the Group will be further enhanced  
by the current development programme.
Risk management
As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and 
principal risks in the Strategic report, risk 
management is inherent in management’s 
thinking and is embedded in the business 
planning processes of the Group. In 2014 
the Board more clearly took responsibility 
for risk identification and prioritisation, with 
the Group Executive Committee also being 
more actively involved in implementation 
and mitigation actions. The Audit Committee 
has continued its monitoring role. This 
realignment has provided a more robust 
framework for identifying and dealing with 
the principal risks and is consistent with the 
recently announced requirements in the 
revised UK Corporate Governance Code. 
As in previous years, “bottom up” risk 
registers were constructed and reviewed in 
each major business. The Head of Internal 
Audit coordinated the accumulation of these 
operational risks for consideration by the 
Group Executive Committee and then by 
the Board. The Board also input “top down” 
strategic risks into the process, including 
the broader economic, environmental and 
organisational issues facing the Group. In 
monitoring the overall process, Committee 
members also fully participated in the Board 
review of risks and mitigating actions. In 
particular, the Committee determined that 
the principal risks and uncertainties as set 
out on pages 22 and 23 properly reflect the 
outcome of the process. 
External audit 
The Committee and the Board are committed 
to maintaining the excellence of the external 
audit process. The effectiveness of the 
external audit process was again tested 
by considering the quality of issues and 
challenges raised by KPMG to the Committee 
and to management across the Group and by 
the responsiveness of management to these 
challenges in generating financial reporting 
that is of the high standard expected by  
our shareholders. 
Unusually, the Committee commissioned 
PwC to undertake a review of the whole 
external audit process. This was carried out 
in parallel with the internal audit review 
noted above. The work involved best practice 
based reviews and interviews with the 
Committee, Board, Group and key divisional 
financial management. KPMG participated 
in this process to the full extent that ethical 
standards permitted and the Committee 
welcomed this cooperation. I am pleased 
to report that the conclusions were positive 
on the overall effectiveness of the Group’s 
external audit process with few areas for 
consideration or improvement. This reflects 
well on management as well as on KPMG. 
As in previous years, an internal quality and 
perceptions review of KPMG was carried 
out across the Group by the Group Financial 
Controller and again the results were positive. 
Given these inputs the Committee deemed 
the effectiveness of the external audit process 
to be high and I fully support this view. 
The independent auditor’s report provided 
by KPMG on pages 100 to 102 includes 
KPMG’s assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement in the accounts. The 
Committee and management concur with 
their assessment. The items are included in 
Significant issues and material judgements 
comments noted above. The report also 
summarises the scope, coverage and 
materiality levels applied by KPMG in their 
audit. As part of the audit planning process 
and based on a detailed risk assessment, the 
Committee set a materiality figure of £5.7m 
for Group financial reporting purposes which 
is lower than last year (£7 .0m) and in line 
with similar groups at about 5% of profit 
before tax. Importantly much lower levels of 
materiality are used in the audit fieldwork on 
the individual businesses across the Group 
and these lower figures drive the scope and 
depth of audit work. Small operations were 
subject to statutory audit but were also 
subject to internal audit reviews based on risk 
assessments. Any misstatements at or above 
£0.3m were reported to the Committee. 
Audit Committee continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 70 There were no significant changes to the audit 
scope during the course of the audit, though 
given the control weaknesses in Vesuvius 
Brazil, a more substantive audit than initially 
planned was carried out there. 
The coverage of the audit at 73% of the 
Group’s revenue, 87% of profit before tax 
and 87% of assets was considered by the 
Committee. Though slightly higher than last 
year, the coverage is relatively low. This is as 
a result of the long tail of smaller businesses 
within the Group that individually are not 
“material” to the Group result. As noted 
above, controls in these businesses are the 
subject of internal and external audit review, 
but management is considering other means 
of extending external audit more extensively 
into the smaller businesses without 
disproportionately increasing the overall  
audit cost. Proposals will be made and 
considered by the Committee as part of  
the 2015 audit planning.
The KPMG audit fee was constructed 
“bottom up” , and was considered in light 
of the audit work required by the agreed 
materiality level and scope. Following some 
further negotiation the fee was agreed by 
the Committee for recommendation to the 
Board. The Board approved the fee of £1.8m, 
which is £0. 1m higher than in 2013. 
Within the external audit process, 
communications between the Committee 
and KPMG were extensive. KPMG provided 
updates to the Committee at the half-year 
and running up to the year-end, including 
regular commentaries on significant 
issues and their assessment of prudence 
in the judgements and estimates made by 
management. Private sessions were held with 
KPMG without management being present, 
covering reporting and control issues in the 
context of the resourcing of the relatively 
new Group Finance team. The strength of 
the finance teams across the Group was 
also considered. In these sessions KPMG 
confirmed that their work had not been 
constrained in any way and that they were 
able to exercise their appropriate professional 
scepticism and challenge throughout the 
audit process. 
External auditor independence
In the PwC review of our external audit 
process a specific area of questioning related 
to the independence and objectivity of 
KPMG. The scoring of the respondents on  
this topic was very high and accorded well 
with good practice. 
The Committee takes assurance from this 
finding. The safeguards to protect the 
independence and objectivity of the auditor 
that continued during the year include:
•  Regular confirmation that the external 
auditor is independent of the Company in  
its own professional judgement 
•  Evaluating all the relationships between the 
external auditor and the Group, including 
those relating to the provision of non- 
audit services to determine whether these 
impair, or appear to impair, the auditor’s 
independence. 
In accordance with established Group policy, 
the external auditor is prohibited from 
performing services where it: 
•  May be required to audit its own work 
•  Would participate in activities that would 
normally be undertaken by management 
•  Is remunerated through a “success fee” 
structure 
•  Acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
Other than these safeguards, the current 
policy does not impose an automatic 
prohibition on the external auditor 
undertaking non-audit work that is not, or is 
not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor 
independence, provided it has the skill, 
competence and integrity to carry out the 
work in the best interests of the Group. 
As part of its Regulation of Statutory 
Audit Services, the EU has announced the 
framework of a more restrictive regime 
for non-audit services that will come 
into force in June 2016. The details are 
subject to some clarification and national 
optionality, but the restrictions will broadly 
prohibit external auditors’ involvement 
in tax services, any services that involve 
playing a part in management decision 
making, preparing accounting records, 
designing or implementing internal control/
risk management services or financial 
systems, certain HR services and other legal, 
investment and share dealing services. 
There will also be a 70% cap on the fees 
for non-audit services relative to the audit 
fee. The implications of an auditor failing 
the independence test is onerous in that an 
“ audit” carried out by a non-independent 
auditor would not constitute an audit and 
there would then be serious consequences 
for the Company. These prohibitions would 
not impact our current relationship with 
KPMG, but are an important consideration 
in planning the external auditor rotation 
discussed below. The Committee and 
management are actively considering the 
implications, as some of the prohibited 
services are inherently multi-year activities,  
for example tax and systems, and are currently 
carried out by firms that could be invited to 
tender for the audit. The Group’s existing 
policies will have to become more restrictive 
to comply with the finalised EU regulations. 
An annual fees budget for non-audit services 
which management is proposing to pay to the 
external auditor is presented for pre-approval 
to the Committee as part of the overall 
budgeting process. Where a specific non-
audit fee is likely to be in excess of £50,000, 
it must be pre-approved by the Committee 
and where appropriate, services are tendered 
competitively prior to the awarding of work. 
The ramifications of the auditor rotation 
process are also considered. 
During 2014, the fees for non-audit services 
amounted to £0.2m, or 1 1 % of the audit 
fee, similar to last year. The fees comprised 
assurance services related to the review of  
the Company’s half-year financial statements 
and limited taxation advice as detailed on 
page 1 13, for which it was concluded that 
KPMG was best-placed to support the 
Company. The Committee also monitored 
fees paid to other large accounting firms as 
part of the non-audit services fees review so 
as to determine where there might be any 
current or future conflicts of interest. 
71
Governance External auditor reappointment 
The Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment, reappointment and 
removal of the external auditor. Under the 
new Order that The Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) published in 2014, putting 
into action major changes in the UK statutory 
audit market, from this year, the Committee 
has more direct responsibilities for overseeing 
the external auditor relationship including fee 
negotiation, tendering processes, lead partner 
selection and non-audit services provision. 
The Committee will monitor the practical 
implementation of these requirements  
and will report on compliance in the next 
Annual report.
In relation to considering the reappointment 
of KPMG for 2015, the Committee evaluated 
various factors, but most importantly the 
demonstrable quality of the teams delivering 
the audit, both locally and centrally, and in 
particular the presence and capabilities of the 
lead partner. The PwC review of the external 
audit process has been an important input 
this year and has underlined the excellence 
and robustness of the overall KPMG 
relationship. We also considered the overall 
quality of the firm’s work as reflected in the 
published reports of the Audit Quality Review 
Team of the Financial Reporting Council. 
The Committee is well aware that KPMG 
or its predecessor firms have had a long-
standing tenure as the auditor of Vesuvius 
and its predecessors. The services of KPMG 
were retained during the demerger in 2012 
as this was the most efficient means of 
undertaking the work. The lead audit partner 
rotated at that time in accordance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. The next 
partner rotation is due after the 2016 audit.
The Committee is conscious of the CMA 
Order and EU Regulations regarding 
audit firm rotation that are now in place, 
for implementation in 2015 and 2016, 
respectively. The prevailing EU Regulation 
will require audit firm rotation after a 
maximum of ten years, with the possibility 
of an extension of a further ten years if 
a competitive tender has taken place at 
the ten-year point. Importantly, there 
are transitional arrangements in the EU 
Regulation which, given the tenure of KPMG, 
mean that KPMG must rotate off as auditor 
by the AGM following 17 June 2020 at the 
latest. Given this limit and the timing of the 
next lead partner rotation, the Committee 
and the Board believe that there should be a 
competitive tender process before the AGM 
in 2021. The implications for potential invitees 
to the tendering process in terms of their 
capabilities and potential conflicts, particularly 
in the provision of non-audit services, will be 
carefully considered in the meantime. Such 
considerations could give rise to changes in 
the provision of tax and other services ahead 
of the tender process itself. 
Given the performance of KPMG and the 
likely tendering framework, the Committee 
has recommended, and the Board has 
agreed, that, subject to shareholder approval, 
KPMG will be reappointed as auditor at the 
2015 AGM. 
Should any shareholder wish to discuss this 
overall approach and timing with me then  
I should be happy to do so. 
The c ommittee evaluation 
The Committee’s activities formed part of 
the externally facilitated evaluation of Board 
effectiveness performed during the year. The 
performance of the Committee was viewed 
as good by the participants, which included 
the Board members not on the Committee, 
Group financial management and the 
external auditor. The changes arising from the 
previous year’s evaluation have had a positive 
effect, such as providing more time between 
Committee and Board meetings and having a 
clearer demarcation of the risk management 
process between the Committee and the 
Board. Further details of the evaluation of 
the Board and its Committees are given on 
page 64.
On behalf of the Audit Committee
Jeff Hewitt 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
3 March 2015
Audit Committee continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 72 During the year the Committee, in line with 
its primary responsibility, focused on Board 
succession planning – ensuring that the  
Board is made up of individuals with the 
necessary skills, diversity and experience  
to lead the Company.
c ommittee members
John McDonough (Committee Chairman)  
Nelda Connors 
Christer Gardell 
Jeff Hewitt 
Jane Hinkley
The Nomination c ommittee
The Nomination Committee is made up of 
myself, as Chairman of the Company and 
any three of the Non-executive Directors. 
During the year I continued as Chairman of 
the Committee, though I would not act as 
Chairman when the Committee is considering 
the appointment of my successor. In this case, 
the Chairman would be an appropriate Non-
executive Director. The Company Secretary 
is Secretary to the Committee. Members’ 
biographies are set out on pages 56 and 57 .
meetings
The Committee met three times during 2014 
and I reported the outcome of our meetings 
to the Board. Formal meetings were held  
to consider standing items of business. 
However, particularly as a recruitment exercise 
was taking place, there was also a significant 
level of ad hoc discussion between members 
of the Committee during the year.
Role and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee’s foremost 
priorities are to ensure that the Company has 
the best possible leadership and maintains 
a clear plan for both Executive and Non-
executive Director succession. Its prime focus 
is therefore on the strength of the Board, 
for which appointments are made on merit, 
against objective criteria, selecting the best 
candidate for the post. The Nomination 
Committee advises the Board on the 
appointments, retirements and resignations 
from the Board and its Committees. 
The Committee operates under formal 
terms of reference which were reviewed and 
updated during the year and approved by the 
Board. The terms of reference are available on 
the Group’s website www.vesuvius.com.
The Committee and its members are also 
empowered to obtain outside legal or other 
independent professional advice (at the cost 
of the Company) in relation to its deliberations 
(which rights were not exercised during the 
year) and to secure the attendance at its 
meetings of any employee or other parties 
it considers necessary.
a ctivity in 2014
During the year, the Committee considered 
the appointment of a new Chairman of the 
Audit Committee to succeed Jeff Hewitt, who 
has served on the boards of Cookson Group 
plc and Vesuvius plc for a combined period of 
nine years. The requirement for an individual 
with exemplary financial experience, together 
with the ability to enhance the collective 
experience and skills of the Board, formed  
the focus of deliberations. It was also 
considered that the appointee would assume 
the role of Senior Independent Director, if a 
candidate of sufficient experience and stature 
was identified. 
In addition to identifying a successor for the 
Audit Committee Chairman, the Nomination 
Committee also recommended to the 
Board that its work and deliberations could 
be further enhanced by the appointment 
of another, additional, independent Non-
executive Director, bringing independent 
membership of the Board (excluding the 
Chairman) to four members. The additional 
Non-executive Director would also ideally 
bring to the Board global technical services 
know-how and direct experience of working 
in China in the industrial sector. 
The Committee conducted a tender for 
services for the consultants to advise on each 
of the appointments. Given that different 
skills and experience were required for the 
two roles, following the tender process 
the Committee resolved to use different 
consultants to assist with each appointment. 
A summary of the formal process utilised for 
Board appointments is set out later in this 
Committee report.
Drawing on the skills of these advisers, and 
following a rigorous process conducted by 
the Nomination Committee in conjunction 
with the Board as a whole, Douglas Hurt (as 
Audit Committee Chairman) and Hock Goh 
(as an additional independent Non-executive 
Director), were identified as individuals with 
the skills and experience desired to support 
the oversight and strategic development 
of the Company, and to complement the 
existing composition of the Board. As the 
recruitment process developed it was also 
resolved that Douglas Hurt should succeed 
Jeff Hewitt as Senior Independent Director. 
As I have previously reported in my 
introductory letter, and as announced by  
the Company on 3 March 2015, Hock Goh 
and Douglas Hurt will join the Board on  
2 April 2015.
As part of the annual corporate governance 
review, the Committee examined the 
independence of the Board and the potential 
lengths of tenure of each of the independent 
Non-executive Directors. The Committee was 
happy to report to the Board that it believes 
that the Board satisfies the independence 
criteria set down by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Notwithstanding the two prospective 
appointments discussed above, the 
Committee will continue regularly to  
examine succession and the Board’s balance 
of skills, experience and diversity. Succession 
planning formed an integral part of the 
Board’s annual strategy review in 2014 and 
will continue to do so in 2015, led by the 
Nomination Committee.
Board composition
All Directors have served at a very senior level 
in global organisations, have international 
experience across a variety of industries, and 
most have spent a considerable amount of 
time resident outside the UK. The Nomination 
Committee continues to believe that diversity 
underpins the successful operation of an 
effective Board and will continue with its 
policy to review the requirements in respect  
of skills, experience background and gender 
in respect of the Board’s composition.
Nomination Committee
73
Governance Process for Board appointments 
When considering Board appointments, 
the Nomination Committee draws 
up a specification for the role, taking 
into consideration the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience of its existing 
members, the diversity of the Board, 
the independence of continuing Board 
members and the ongoing requirements 
and anticipated strategic developments of 
the Group. The search process is then able 
to focus on appointing a candidate with the 
necessary attributes to enhance the Board’s 
performance. 
The Committee utilises the services of search 
firms to identify appropriate candidates, 
ensuring that the firm appointed does 
not have any other connection with the 
Company. In addition, the Committee will 
only use those firms that have adopted the 
Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing 
gender diversity and best practice in search 
assignments. A “long list” of potential 
appointees will then be reviewed followed 
by the shortlisting of candidates for interview 
based upon the objective criteria identified 
at inception. Care is taken to ensure that all 
proposed appointees have sufficient time 
available to devote to the role and do not 
have any conflicts of interest. The Committee 
then recommends a preferred candidate 
who will meet all Board members. Finally, 
detailed external references are taken and 
following this the Committee makes a 
formal recommendation to the Board on the 
appointment. The preferred candidate would 
also be supported in undertaking their own 
due diligence on the Company and meeting 
with its advisers.
Senior management succession 
During the year, as part of the overall Group 
strategic review, each of the Vesuvius business 
units and head office functions submitted 
their succession plans in respect of senior 
executives to the Board for review. The Board 
also actively seeks to meet key executives 
throughout the Group – both through formal 
Board meetings and informally – in order to 
gain a greater understanding of the breadth 
and depth of management talent. During 
2014 this process was augmented to include 
a series of presentations to the Board by 
business unit and functional heads, and the 
senior managers that work in their teams, 
to ensure that the Board was exposed to 
key senior management. The success of this 
process will see it continued and expanded 
in 2015. In this way members of the Board 
and the Committee are able to adopt a more 
informed approach to executive succession 
planning and talent development across  
the Group.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
John mcDonough c BE 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
3 March 2015
Nomination Committee continued
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance 74 75
Governance Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the 2014 Directors’ remuneration report. Last year our first Remuneration 
Policy was approved at the AGM. As the Committee is not proposing any changes to this Policy it will not be put to a vote at the forthcoming 
AGM. However, as an aide memoir for shareholders, we have included our Policy on pages 86 to 93 of this Directors’ remuneration report.
The Annual report on remuneration (“ ARR”) on pages 76 to 85 will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM. The ARR 
contains details of pay received by Directors in 2014 and of how we intend to apply our approved Policy during 2015. All payments received by 
Directors in 2014 were in line with our Remuneration Policy. I have set out below the key decisions reached by the Committee during 2014 that 
are reflected in the ARR.
Performance in 2014
As described in the Strategic report, and in the financial highlights on page 01, the Company has enjoyed a solid year. 
•  The annual incentive awards for 2014 were based primarily upon Group headline earnings per share performance. Based on our headline EPS 
of 33.4 pence, this results in awards of 64.3% of maximum bonus opportunity – giving bonuses of 80.4% and 64.3% of base salary for the 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) respectively
•  Share awards made in 201 2 – the final grant of the legacy Cookson LTIP – matured at the end of 2014. Under this plan, performance is measured 
equally in TSR relative to the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) and Headline EPS over a three-year period. Relative TSR performance 
was between median and upper quintile resulting in a performance share award of 26.9% of salary (out of a maximum 50%) and matching 
share awards vesting at a ratio of 0.586: 1. However , the EPS target for the three-year period was not met and therefore none of the elements 
related to EPS performance vested. In confirming the vesting of the relative TSR element of the award, the Committee reviewed the underlying 
performance of the Company to satisfy itself that the numerical outcome was justified. Awards will vest in April 2015
Key decisions for 2015
Key decisions made by the Committee in relation to 2015 included:
•  As highlighted in last year’s Directors’ remuneration report, we have adopted a longer-term horizon (of two to three years) for base salary 
increases for Executive Directors and senior executives. The Chief Executive’s and CFO’s salaries were both reviewed during 2014 in line with 
this philosophy. The Chief Executive’s salary was not increased for 2015 and the CFO’s salary was increased by 5% from 1 January 2015.  
This is the first increase in his salary since he joined Vesuvius in 2012 and reflects the considerable energy and dedication he has brought to  
the role and his development since the time of his appointment
•  The Committee reviewed the existing clawback arrangements set out in our shareholder-approved Policy. In light of revisions to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, we have further strengthened our application of this Policy in 2015 as set out on page 80 of the ARR
•  In order to provide enhanced long-term alignment with shareholders, the Committee increased the required shareholding to be built up  
and held by the Chief Executive from 100% to 200% of base salary
•  The Committee has resolved to use the same performance measures utilised in 2014 for Executive Directors’ incentive awards in 2015. 
These measures reward growth (through the EPS measure used in the annual incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan), effective balance sheet 
management (through the working capital adjuster used in the annual incentive) and delivery of shareholder value (through the TSR measure 
used in the Vesuvius Share Plan). The Committee believes that this combination provides appropriate alignment with Vesuvius’ current 
strategic priorities
Additionally, during the year the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to review the appointment of the Committee’s external 
adviser. A tender was undertaken with invitations to pitch sent to four remuneration consultants. As a result of this process Deloitte was 
appointed as the new external adviser to the Committee in December 2014. We look forward to working with them more fully in 2015.
The Committee is satisfied that the current Remuneration Policy is designed for the long-term benefit of the Company, and that the 
performance-related elements of remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied. The terms of reference of the Committee 
were reviewed and amended during the year to ensure that they continue to maintain a focus on these issues. 
The Committee encourages dialogue with its major shareholders. We will consult with shareholders regarding any significant future changes to 
the Remuneration Policy. In the meantime, I remain keen to hear shareholders’ views on remuneration matters and look forward to a continued 
dialogue with and, continued support from, shareholders for our Directors’ remuneration report resolution at the AGM.
Yours sincerely
Jane Hinkley  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
3 March 2015
Remuneration overview Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 76 Section Four: Governance
Remuneration c ommittee structure and remit
c omposition of the Remuneration c ommittee The current members of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) are all the 
independent Non-executive Directors of the Company: Jane Hinkley (who also serves as the Committee Chairman), Nelda Connors and 
Jeff Hewitt all of whom served on the Committee throughout 2014 and in 2015 to date. The Committee complies with the obligations of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code for the composition of Remuneration Committees. Each of the members brings a broad experience of 
international businesses and an understanding of their challenges to the work of the Committee. Jeff Hewitt brings his significant experience  
of Vesuvius to the Committee, and both Jane and Nelda add extensive international business experience to the Committee’s deliberations.  
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. Members’ biographies are on pages 56 and 57 . As set out in the Chairman’s Statement, 
and the Governance Report, Jeff Hewitt will step down from the Board and leave the Committee at the forthcoming AGM. Hock Goh and 
Douglas Hurt will join the Company on 2 April 2015 and will serve on the Committee with effect from that date. The Committee will therefore 
continue to comply with the Corporate Governance Code requirements on its composition. 
meetings
The Committee met four times during the year with full attendance, other than in respect of two meetings where Nelda Connors was 
prevented from attending – the first due to personal reasons and the second due to adverse weather conditions preventing her travel. The 
Group Chairman, Chief Executive, and Vice President Human Resources were invited to each meeting, together with Christer Gardell, our non-
independent Non-executive Director, though none of them participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration. In addition the Chief 
Financial Officer attended where the agenda of the Committee required it. This attendance supports the work of the Committee, giving critical 
insight into the operational demands of the business and their application to the overall strategy of remuneration within the Group. In receiving 
views on remuneration matters from the Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee recognised the potential for conflicts of 
interest to arise and considered the advice accordingly. The Chairman of the Committee reported the outcomes of all meetings to the Board.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which were reviewed and updated during the year and approved by the Board.  
The terms of reference are available on the Group website www.vesuvius.com. The Committee members are also empowered to obtain  
outside legal advice (at the cost of the Company) in relation to their deliberations (powers which were not exercised during the year) and to 
secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties should it be considered necessary.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for:
•  Setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary
•  Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below 
Board level and their direct reports
•  Overseeing the operation of any executive share incentive plan
a dvice provided to the Remuneration c ommittee
The external advisers Towers Watson (“Towers”) were appointed by the Committee in 2013 to provide remuneration advice following 
the Company’s demerger from Cookson Group plc. Towers was appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on 
executive remuneration matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practices and trends, and guidance on the 
implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans. Towers also provided the Remuneration Committee with ongoing calculations  
of Total Shareholder Return to enable the Committee to be updated on the performance of long-term share incentive plans. 
During the year, the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to review the appointment of the Committee’s external adviser. A tender 
process was therefore undertaken, with invitations to pitch sent to four remuneration consultants. As a result of this process Deloitte was 
appointed as the new external adviser to the Committee in December 2014.
Both Deloitte and Towers are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration 
Consulting in the UK.
Annual Directors’ remuneration report 77
Governance The Committee is also advised by the Chief Executive, the Vice President Human Resources, the Company Secretary, and by the law firm Clifford 
Chance LLP (“Clifford Chance”). Clifford Chance was appointed at the time of the demerger by the Company Secretary to advise on the share-
based incentives. Clifford Chance provides advice to the Group on the operation of its executive share plans. In addition to work undertaken 
for the Committee, Deloitte provide other tax and accounting services to the Group, Towers provide other remuneration and benchmarking 
advice to the Company, and Clifford Chance provide legal advice to the Company. During 2014 Deloitte’s fees for advice to the Remuneration 
Committee, charged on a time spent basis amounted to £21k. Towers’ fees, amounted to £94k. The Committee has considered and concluded 
that it is satisfied that the advice provided to it on executive remuneration matters is objective and independent and that no conflict of interest 
arises as a result of other services provided to the Company.
a ctivities of the Remuneration c ommittee 
The Remuneration Committee met four times in 2014. The key matters it considered included:
•  The salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and senior management
•  Reviewing achievement against performance targets, and approving payouts, in respect of 2013 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements
•  Setting performance targets and approving the structure of the 2014 annual cash bonus incentive arrangements
•  Considering the Company’s performance against the performance conditions applicable to the 201 1 Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan, 
and authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant
•  Setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan and Medium Term Incentive Plan
•  In the light of advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, and any feedback from 
Institutional shareholders, discussing the Company’s overall approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should 
be made
•  Reviewing the Executive Directors’ shareholding policy
•  Reviewing the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference, and recommending any amendments to the Board for approval 
•  Reviewing and approving the 2013 Directors’ remuneration report.
Regulatory compliance
The Remuneration Policy set out on pages 86 to 93 of this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. It also meets the requirements of the UK 
Listing Authorities Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. This Annual report on remuneration sets out how the provisions 
of the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code are applied by the Company in relation to matters of remuneration. We are happy to 
confirm that the Company has complied with these governance rules for the year under review.
Share usage
Under the rules of the Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan and Vesuvius Share Plan, the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by 
the transfer of Treasury shares or other existing shares, or by the allotment of newly issued shares. Awards made to senior managers by the 
Company over shares pursuant to the Medium Term Incentive Plan must be satisfied out of shares held for this purpose by the Company’s 
employee share ownership trust (“ESOP”). The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Remuneration Committee which considers  
the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
At 31 December 2014 the Company held 7 ,271, 174 ordinary shares in Treasury and 731,698 Vesuvius shares were held in the ESOP . The Trustee 
of the ESOP can be gifted Treasury shares by the Company, can purchase shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly issued shares as 
required, to meet obligations for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
The Vesuvius Share Plan complies with the current IA guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not 
exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Company’s issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on 
discretionary schemes. No Treasury shares have been transferred or newly issued shares allotted under the Plan. 
The following section provides details of how the Company’s remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year 2014 and how it 
will be implemented in the financial year 2015. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 78 Section Four: Governance
Directors’ remuneration – audited
The table below sets out the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in the financial year under review:
 François Wanecq c hris O’Shea
2014
(£000)
2013
(£000)
2014
(£000)
2013 
(£000)
Total salary
1
550 550 340 340
Taxable benefits
2 
42 388 17 16
Pension
3 
165 165 102 102
Total fixed pay
4
757 1,103 459 458
Annual bonus
5
442 687 219 340
Long-term incentives 267 657 241 258
Total variable pay
10 
709 1,344 460 598
Other remuneration – – – –
Total
11 
1,466 2,447 919 1,056
Total 2014 Executive Director remuneration 2,385
The table below sets out the fees received by Non-executive Directors in the financial year under review:
 2014 2013
Total 
fees 
(£000)
1
Taxable 
benefits 
(£000)
2
Total 
(£000)
Total 
fees 
(£000)
1
Taxable 
benefits 
(£000)
2
Total 
(£000)
John McDonough CBE 185 – 185 185 – 185
Nelda Connors 45 – 45 37 – 37
Christer Gardell 45 – 45 45 – 45
Jeff Hewitt 65 – 65 63 – 63
Jane Hinkley 60 – 60 54 – 54
Jan Oosterveld
12
– – – 19 – 19
John Sussens
13
– – – 28 – 28
Total 2014 Non-executive Director remuneration 400
Total 2014 Director remuneration 2,785
NOTES
1.  Base salary (or fees, as appropriate) earned during the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
2.  Benefits comprise car allowance, private medical care, expatriate tax advice and a de-minimis amount for Directors’ spouses travel. (2013 benefits included a one-off relocation 
allowance for François Wanecq of £361,871.)
3.  Executive Directors receive a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
4.  The sum of basic salary, benefits and pension.
5.  The annual incentive cash bonus payments to be made to the Executive Directors for their performance in the year under review. See page 79 for more details.
6.  This represents the Performance and Matching Share awards granted to François Wanecq in 2012 under the Cookson Group LTIP , that are due to vest in 2015. See Note 2 of the 
Cookson LTIP Allocations table on page 82. At an average Vesuvius mid-market closing share price (from 1 October 2014-31 December 2014) of 422.6p, the total value of the 
awards that are due to vest, along with the cash payment for the dividend that has accrued on these shares was £266,961. 
7 .  This figure has been updated to represent the actual value on the date of vesting of the Performance and Matching Share awards, that François Wanecq received under the 
Cookson Group LTIP in 201 1. See Note 1 of the Cookson LTIP Allocations table on page 82.
8.  See Note 1 of the Restricted Share award table on page 83 for more details.
9.  54,402 Restricted Shares vested to Chris O’Shea on 1 1 October 2013. An additional 1,685 shares were transferred to him in respect of the dividend accrual. The mid-market 
closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of vesting was £4.601 and the total value of the shares that he received on the date of vesting was therefore £258,056.  
See the section entitled Restricted Share award on page 83 for more details.
10.  The sum of annual bonus and the value of long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
1 1.  The sum of basic salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
12.  Mr Oosterveld retired from the Board immediately following the Company’s 2013 AGM on 4 June 2013. 
13.  Mr Sussens retired from the Board immediately following the Company’s 2013 AGM on 4 June 2013. 
Payments to past Directors – audited
There were no payments made to a past Director of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Loss of office payments – audited
There were no payments made to any Director for loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2014.
6 7 8 9
Annual Directors’ remuneration report continued 79
Governance Base salary and fees
In the year under review, the Chief Executive received a base salary of £550,000 per annum, and the Chief Financial Officer received a base 
salary of £340,000 per annum. Non-executive Directors’ fees were set at £45,000 per annum. Supplementary fees of £15,000 per annum 
were payable to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. A supplementary fee of £5,000 per annum was also payable to 
the Senior Independent Director. The Chairman was paid a fee of £185,000 per annum. Neither the Chairman, nor the other Non-executive 
Directors are members of the Group’s pension plans, nor do they participate in the Group’s incentive schemes.
There were no increases to the Directors’ base salary and fees in 2014. In 2015 it is proposed that the base salary of the Chief Financial Officer 
is increased by 5% to £357 ,000, which is in line with the cumulative average base salary rises of the UK salaried workforce of 6.9% over the 
same period. This increase is the first received by the CFO since joining Vesuvius in 2012 and was determined by the Committee in a manner 
consistent with our policy of appraising changes to base salary over a two to three-year period.
Pension arrangements – audited
In accordance with their service agreements, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are entitled to pension allowances of 30% of 
base salary, which they can use to participate in Vesuvius’ pension arrangements, invest in their own pension arrangements or take as a cash 
supplement (or any combination of the aforementioned options).
Director
 Pension allowance
2014
(£000)
2013 
(£000)
François Wanecq 165 165
Chris O’Shea 102 102
a nnual Bonus
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against 
specified targets. There is no deferral of annual bonuses for Executive Directors. Each year the Remuneration Committee establishes the financial 
performance criteria for the forthcoming year. These criteria are set by reference to the Company’s financial budget and prior year actual  
financial results. The target range is set to ensure that maximum bonuses are only paid for significantly exceeding performance expectations.  
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the 
Company’s longer-term strategic goals.
The annual incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum performance level at 
which a maximum award is earned. François Wanecq’s maximum annual incentive potential is 125% of base salary and his target annual incentive 
potential is 62.5% of base salary. Chris O’Shea’s maximum annual incentive potential is 100% of base salary and his target annual incentive 
proposal is 50% of base salary.
For the financial year 2014, François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea’s annual incentives were based on Vesuvius’ Group headline earnings per share, 
with an adjustment based on Vesuvius’ working capital performance to focus greater attention on cash flow. As set out in the Remuneration 
Policy, the effect of this is to reduce the level of payout that could be achieved by up to 10% if specified working capital targets are not attained. 
This “kicker” can also increase the level of payout by up to 10%, but not above the stated plan maximum. For 2014 the Vesuvius Group headline 
earnings per share performance targets were set at the December 2013 full year average foreign exchange rates (being the rates used for the 
2014 budget process): 
Threshold: 33.5 pence On target: 35.3 pence Maximum: 38. 1 pence 
In order to achieve the working capital target, the Group’s working capital as a percentage of sales had to be between 23. 1 % to 24. 1 % of sales.
In order for the Committee to assess the Group’s performance against these targets, the 2014 full year EPS performance was retranslated at the 
original budget (December 2013 full year average) foreign exchange rates, consistent with practice in previous years.
Consequently, in 2014 Vesuvius’ retranslated EPS performance was 36.5 pence, and working capital was 24.9% meaning that François Wanecq 
and Chris O’Shea’s annual incentives paid out at 80.4% and 64.3% of base salary respectively (reflecting a 10% reduction to the payouts arising 
from the EPS performance as a result of the working capital adjustment). François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea were therefore entitled to receive 
payouts under the 2014 Annual Incentive as follows:
Name Measure Weighting
1 
Outturn
(retranslated)
Achieved
(% of salary)
Incentive  
to be paid
François Wanecq Group headline earnings per share 100% 36.5p 80.4 £441,964
Chris O’Shea Group headline earnings per share 100% 36.5p 64.3 £218,571
NOTE
1.   The 2014 awards were also subject to the working capital “kicker”; this had the effect of reducing the awards by 10%. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 80 Section Four: Governance
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2015 François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea’s annual incentives will again be based on Group 
headline earnings per share, with a similar adjustment based on the Group’s working capital performance. François Wanecq’s and Chris O’Shea’s 
maximum annual incentive bonus potential for 2015 remain unchanged at 125% and 100% respectively. The Company will not be disclosing the 
targets set until after the relevant performance period because of commercial sensitivities.
malus/c lawback arrangements in 2015
Vesuvius has operated clawback arrangements in respect of Executive Directors’ variable remuneration since 2012. The existing structure of 
those arrangements is outlined in our Remuneration Policy.
As highlighted in the statement of the Committee Chairman at the start of this Directors’ remuneration report, the Committee has reviewed 
these arrangements in light of the revised Corporate Governance Code and evolving market practice. Following that review, the Committee has 
decided to strengthen the implementation of the existing Policy from 2015 as follows:
•  Malus provisions will be added to the existing clawback provisions. This will provide the Committee with the flexibility, if required, to withhold 
or recover payments made to Executive Directors under the Annual Incentive Plan and/or to withhold or recover share awards granted to 
Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan
•  Circumstances in which the Committee could potentially elect to apply malus and clawback provisions will be extended. Going forward, 
potential events which could trigger the application of these provisions will encompass a misstatement in the Company’s financial statements 
which requires restatement of a prior year’s accounts; an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive; gross 
misconduct by an individual; or significant financial loss or serious reputational damage to Vesuvius plc resulting from an individual’s conduct, 
a material failure of risk management or a serious breach of health and safety
•  Our existing arrangements permit the application of clawback provisions for a period of up to three years after the end of a performance 
period. The Committee is satisfied that this time period is sufficient and is making no changes in this regard.
Outstanding longer-term pay – audited
Vesuvius Performance Share awards Performance Share awards are allocated to the Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan.  
They are eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a performance share award with a face value of up to 200% of base salary. Vesting of 50% of 
shares awarded is based upon the Company’s three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding 
Investment Trusts, and 50% on headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in global GDP over a three-year period. 
The specific level of compound headline EPS growth specified in the targets is set by the Remuneration Committee each year, taking into account 
the Group’s prospects and the broader global economic environment. The two measures operate independently. The use of these performance 
measures is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders’ interests. 
The performance scale for the 201 3 Vesuvius Share Plan awards was set to be stretching. The nominal figures for the headline EPS part of the 
award were selected in the light of a relatively low base period result. For awards in 2014 the Committee reinforced the message that targets for full 
vesting should remain truly stretching, rewarding significant out-performance. However , they also recognised that the vesting threshold for the first 
Vesuvius Performance Share awards in 201 3 was not necessarily appropriate for subsequent awards once the baseline of performance had been 
set. They therefore resolved that the vesting threshold for the 2014 awards should be set at a lower level of performance than was applicable for 
the 201 3 awards. Thus the vesting threshold for EPS growth above global GDP for the 2014 awards is at 3% above global GDP growth rather than 
the 7% threshold used for awards made in 201 3. In order for maximum payouts to be achieved the same stretching target of EPS growth of 15% 
above global GDP has been maintained. The 2015 awards will be made on the same basis.
Targets for the 2013 Performance Share awards
 
Vesuvius Share Plan – performance targets
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts a nnual compound Headline EPS growth above global GDP
Vesting percentage Vesting percentage
Below median 0% Below 7% 0%
Median 12.50% 7% 12.50%
Upper quintile 50% At or above 15% 50%
Between median and  
upper quintile
Pro rata between  
12.5% and 50%
Between 7% and 15% Pro rata between 
12.5% and 50%
Annual Directors’ remuneration report continued 81
Governance Targets for the 2014 Performance Share awards
Vesuvius Share Plan – performance targets
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts a nnual compound Headline EPS growth above global GDP
Vesting percentage Vesting percentage
Below median 0% Below 3% 0%
Median 12.50% 3% 12.50%
Upper quintile 50% At or above 15% 50%
Between median and  
upper quintile
Pro rata between  
12.5% and 50%
Between 3% and 15% Pro rata between 
12.5% and 50%
2015 Performance Share awards
The Remuneration Committee has determined that François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea will receive Performance Share awards in 2015 
equivalent in value to 200% of their respective base salaries. The performance targets applicable to these awards are as follows:
Vesuvius Share Plan – performance targets
TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts a nnual compound headline EPS growth above global GDP
Vesting percentage Vesting percentage
Below median 0% Below 3% 0%
Median 12.50% 3% 12.50%
Upper quintile 50% At or above 15% 50%
Between median and  
upper quintile
Pro rata between  
12.5% and 50%
Between 3% and 15% Pro rata between 
12.5% and 50%
Vesuvius Performance Share award allocations
The following Performance Share awards were allocated in 2013 and 2014 under the Vesuvius Share Plan:
Grant and type  
of award
Total share
allocations
as at
31 Dec 2013
Additional
shares
allocated
during
the year
Shares
vested
during
the year
Total share
allocation
31 Dec 2014
Performance
period
Earliest
vesting date
François Wanecq
22 a pril 2013
1
Performance shares 341,509 – – 341,509 1 Jan 13 – 
31 Dec 15
22 Apr 2016
17 march 2014
2
Performance shares – 253,748 – 253,748 1 Jan 14 – 
31 Dec 16 
17 Mar 2017
Total 341,509 253,748 595,257
c hris O’Shea
22 a pril 2013
1
Performance shares 211,115 – – 211,115 1 Jan 13 – 
31 Dec 15
22 Apr 2016
17 march 2014
2
Performance shares – 156,862 – 156,862 1 Jan 14 – 
31 Dec 16 
17 Mar 2017
Total 211,115 156,682 – 367,977
NOTES 
1.  In 2013 François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea received potential maximum allocations of Performance Shares worth two times their base salaries, being 341,509 shares and 21 1,1 15 
shares respectively. 
2.  In 2014 François Wanecq and Chris O’Shea received potential maximum allocations of Performance Shares worth two times their base salaries, being 253,748 shares and 156,862 
shares respectively. These allocations were made on 17 March 2014 and were calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius’ shares on the five dealing 
days before the awards were made, being 433.5 pence. The total value of Chris O’Shea’s award on the date of grant was therefore £679,997 and François Wanecq’s £1,099,998. 
12.5% of this award would vest if the threshold level of one of the two performance targets is met.
3.  These awards have been made in the form of nil cost options with no exercise price.
4.  The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to award cash or shares equivalent in value to the dividend that would have accrued during the vesting period on any awards 
that vest.
5.  The mid-market closing price of Vesuvius’ shares ranged between 400p and 497 .6p during 2014 and on 31 December 2014 was 446.2p. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 82 Section Four: Governance
c ookson LTIP allocations
Following the demerger of Cookson Group plc, François Wanecq retained an entitlement to allocations of Performance and Matching Shares 
made under the Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan. His entitlement to shares in Cookson Group plc was rolled over into Vesuvius plc shares.  
The vesting of these awards is based 50% upon relative TSR performance and 50% on headline EPS performance. Performance is measured  
by reference to Cookson performance up to the demerger effective date (19 December 2012) and Vesuvius’ performance thereafter.
The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2012 ended on 31 December 2014. Cookson and Vesuvius’ TSR performance during 
this three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Company’s performance was 
between median and upper quintile, a level which results in the vesting of 26.9% out of a maximum of 50% of Performance Share awards and 
Matching Share awards vesting at a ratio of 0.586:1. Following the demerger, the threshold 2014 EPS target, as previously reported, was set at 
50.4p. Headline EPS for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 33.4p. As a result no Performance or Matching Share awards will vest under the 
EPS performance element. Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee stipulates that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that 
vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period. Having carefully considered the 
Group’s performance over the three-year period, and taking into account the significant improvement in the Group’s financial results – including 
the Group’s revenue, trading profit, return on sales margins, and profit before tax – the Committee concluded that the vesting of the 2012 
LTIP awards is justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group. In addition the Remuneration Committee has determined that 
participants in the 2012 Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan should receive the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares 
that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
2011 and 2012 LTIP a wards (as adjusted for the demerger from awards over shares in c ookson Group plc into awards over 
shares in Vesuvius plc)
Grant and  
Type of award
Total share
allocations
as at
31 Dec 2013
Additional
shares
allocated
during
the year
Shares
vested
during
the year
Shares 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Total share
allocation
31 Dec
2014
Market price 
of the shares 
on the day
before award
(as adjusted for 
the demerger (p))
Performance
period
Earliest
vesting date
François Wanecq
1 a pril 2011
1
Performance shares 148,260 5,214 47,319 106,155 – 365.80 1 Jan 11 – 
31 Dec 13  
1 Apr 2014
Matching shares 332,437 11,691 103,443 240,685 – 365.80 1 Jan 11 – 
31 Dec 13
1 Apr 2014
5 a pril 2012
2
Performance shares 150,075 – – – 150,075 365.80 1 Jan 12 – 
31 Dec 14 
5 Apr 2015
Matching shares 61,212 – – – 61,212 365.80 1 Jan 12 – 
31 Dec 14 
5 Apr 2015
Total 691,984 16,905 150,762 346,840 211,287
NOTES 
1.  The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 201 1 ended on 31 December 2013. The TSR performance was based upon Cookson’s TSR from 1 January 201 1 to 
18 December 2012 to which was added the Vesuvius TSR from 19 December 2012 to 31 December 2013 for a combined figure, being 84.3% (between median and upper 
quintile), which allowed vesting of 28.4% of the Performance Share Award and 0.621:1 for the Matching Share Award. Following the demerger, the 2013 EPS target, as previously 
reported, was set at 48.6p at threshold. Headline EPS for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 31.9p. Hence there was no vesting of either the Performance Share Award or 
the Matching Share Award for EPS performance. A further award of shares was made to François Wanecq on the vesting of his award to cover the dividends accrued between 
the date of grant and the date of vesting in accordance with the rules of the Plan. 42,105 Performance Shares and 91,752 Matching Shares vested to François Wanecq on 1 April 
2014 and an additional 16,905 shares were transferred to him in respect of the dividend accrual. The mid-market closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of vesting was 
£4.355 and the total value of the 150,762 shares that François Wanecq received on the date of vesting was therefore £656,569.
2.  The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2012 ended on 31 December 2014. In accordance with the Company’s achievement of the specified performance 
conditions, 26.9% of François Wanecq’s Performance Share awards are expected to vest on 7 April 2015, and his Matching Shares will vest at a ratio of 0.586:1. In addition the 
Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr Wanecq will receive a cash payment of £29,000 which is equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid  
on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
3.  The mid-market closing price of Vesuvius’ shares ranged between 400p and 497 .6p during 2014 and on 31 December 2014 was 446.2p.
Annual Directors’ remuneration report continued 83
Governance Restricted Share award
On joining the Company Chris O’Shea received a Restricted Share award with a face value of 100% of base salary. Half of the award vested on 
the first anniversary of his date of joining and the remainder a year later. Vesting of the shares was subject to him remaining employed by the 
Company and not under notice of termination. No other performance conditions applied to this award. Details of the portion of the Restricted 
share award that remained outstanding as at 31 December 2013, (as adjusted for the demerger from awards over Cookson Group plc shares 
into awards over shares in Vesuvius plc) are given in the table below:
Date of award
Total share
allocations
as at
31 Dec
2013
Additional
shares
allocated
during
the year
Shares vested
during the year
1
Total share
allocations
as at
31 Dec 
2014
Market price of the
shares on the day
before award
(as adjusted for the
demerger (p))
Earliest 
vesting 
date
5 November 2012
Restricted Share award 54,403 3,914 58,317 – 312.48 11 Oct 2014
NOTES 
1.  54,403 shares vested to Chris O’Shea on 20 October 2014. An additional 3,914 shares were transferred to him in respect of the dividend accrual. The mid-market closing price  
of the Company’s shares on the date of vesting was £4.125 and the total value of the shares that he received on the date of vesting was therefore £240,558.
2.  The mid-market closing price of Vesuvius’ shares ranged between 400p and 497 .6p during 2014 and on 31 December 2014 was 446.2p.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2014, including any interests in share options and 
shares provisionally awarded under the Vesuvius Share Plan and the previous Cookson LTIP Award are presented below:
Beneficial 
holding
Outstanding incentive awards  
subject to performance conditions
Executive Directors
François Wanecq 1,290,147 806,544
Chris O’Shea 91,443 367,977
Non-executive Directors
John McDonough CBE (Chairman) 100,000 –
Nelda Connors 693 –
Christer Gardell
4
– –
Jeff Hewitt 15,284 –
Jane Hinkley 12,000 –
NOTES
1.  There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2015 to 3 March 2015.
2.  Further details of the Directors’ outstanding incentive awards can be found on pages 81 and 82 of this Directors’ remuneration report.
3.  Full details of Directors’ shareholdings, share allocations and share options are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during business hours.
4.  Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held 21.1 1% of Vesuvius’ issued share capital as at the date of this report. 
5.  None of the other Directors, nor their spouses nor their minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Executive Directors’ shareholdings
As at 31 December 2014, using the Company’s share price at 31 December 2014 of 446.2p, the Executive Directors’ shareholdings against their 
current guidelines were as follows:
Director
Actual share ownership as a percentage 
of salary at 31 December 2014
Policy share ownership  
as a percentage of salary Policy met?
François Wanecq 1,047% 200%
1
Yes
Chris O’Shea 120% 100% Yes 
NOTE
1.  The Committee increased the required shareholding to be built up and held by the Chief Executive from 100% to 200% of salary during the year. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 84 Section Four: Governance
a nnual changes in c hief Executive pay vs. employee pay
The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive – comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual 
bonus – and comparable data of UK salaried employees. The UK salaried employee workforce was chosen as a fair representation of a suitable 
comparator group as François Wanecq, the Chief Executive, is based in the UK (albeit with a global role and responsibilities) and levels of pay vary 
widely across the Group depending on geography and local market conditions.
Chief Executive
UK salaried employee 
workforce
(average per capita)
2014 
(£000)
2013
(£000)
%  
change
%  
change
Salary 550 550 0% 3.3% 
Taxable benefits 42 27
1
56% 5.4% 
Annual bonus 442 687 (36%) (51%)
NOTE
1.  The figure used for comparison excludes the sum of £361,871 relating to one-off relocation expenses paid during 2013 for François Wanecq.
a nnual spend on employee pay vs. other distribution
The charts below shows the annual spend on all employees (including Executive Directors) compared to distributions made to shareholders 
for 2013 and 2014:
Spend on pay elements
Expenditure (£m) 
2014
Expenditure (£m) 
2013 Difference in expenditure
Group remuneration of continuing operations (see Note 8. 1) 358.0 386.6 (7.4%)
Dividends (based on final proposed dividend) 43.6 40.7 7.1%
Share buyback – 30.0 (100%)
89%
£358.0m
11%
£43.6m
Relative importance of spend on pay (2014) £m
Remuneration
Dividends
84%
£386.6m
9%
£40.7m
£30.0m
7%
Remuneration
Dividends
Share buyback
Relative importance of spend on pay (2013) £m
Annual Directors’ remuneration report continued 85
Governance c hief Executive pay and TSR performance graph
The chart below shows Vesuvius’ TSR performance since the demerger which was effective on 19 December 2012. Consequently, the illustrative 
chart below shows the relevant period from 19 December 2012 to 31 December 2014.
Performance graph and table
The following graph compares Vesuvius TSR performance to that of the same investment in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts). 
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company. TSR is the measure  
of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.  
A spot rate has been used for this chart.
Chief Executive pay
– financial year ending
31 December
2014
31 December
2013
31 December
2012
Total remuneration  
(single figure, (£000)) £1,466 £2,447 £1,227
Annual variable pay  
(% of maximum) 64% 100% 0% 
Long-term variable pay  
(% of maximum) 27% 28% 67% 
 
50
100
150
200
31/12/14 31/12/13 31/12/12 19/12/12
FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
Vesuvius plc
TSR performance graph
Statement on shareholder voting
At the last AGM which was held on 15 May 2014, two resolutions regarding remuneration were put to shareholders. The first resolution 
put to shareholders was to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. It received 215,577 ,683 votes (98%) in favour and 4,684,029 votes 
(2%) against. 213,747 votes were withheld. The second resolution, an advisory vote on the Directors’ remuneration report for 2013, received 
218,852, 126 votes (99%) in favour and 1,427 ,883 votes against (less than 1 %). 195,450 votes were withheld. At the AGM to be held on 14 May 
2015, shareholders will again be invited to participate in an advisory vote on the Directors’ remuneration report. As there are no changes to the 
Remuneration Policy proposed for 2015, the Policy will not be put to vote at the 2015 AGM.
Jane Hinkley 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
3 March 2015 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 86 Section Four: Governance Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 86 Section Four: Governance
The Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM on 15 May 2014. For the benefit of shareholders, we have reprinted the Policy below. 
To ensure that the Policy is relevant to the 2015 financial year, we have made minor textual changes in the following sections: Selection 
of Performance Measures; Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2015; Consideration of Shareholder Views; and 
Shareholding Policy. The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in last year’s Directors’ remuneration report (a copy  
of which can be found in the 2013 Annual Report Investors section of the Group website www.vesuvius.com).
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
As reported on last year, the overarching philosophy for remuneration within Vesuvius is to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre 
necessary to successfully implement our business strategy. In particular, we ensure that incentives are appropriate to encourage enhanced 
performance and to avoid underperformance being rewarded. In reviewing and setting Vesuvius’ remuneration policy, the Committee seeks to 
balance the interests of our employees and those of our long-term shareholders, to support Company strategy and foster a high performance 
culture, where a meaningful portion of remuneration is performance linked and subject to clawback.
In setting our policy for Executive Directors and senior managers the Committee seeks to emphasise pay for performance and to account for  
the broad international scale and nature of the Company’s operations. We also consider the approach taken to the pay and employment 
conditions of other Company employees, together with UK governance requirements and developments in governance practice issued by 
leading shareholders and shareholder advisory bodies.
The Committee reviews information on the remuneration of comparable roles at similar companies to provide a point of reference for 
determining remuneration levels. Given that there is not a clear comparator group of companies for Vesuvius, this is judged in the context of 
other FTSE 250 companies and other relevant international sector-specific companies to reach a rounded judgement and deliver remuneration 
that is competitive.
Although Vesuvius is in its early stages as an independent company, the Committee is satisfied that the flexibility within the policy, and the 
ability to exercise discretion and judgement, will allow the Committee to ensure that an appropriate balance between the interests of employees 
and shareholders is maintained.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
Alignment/Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance
Base salary
Helps to recruit and retain  
key employees. 
Reflects the individual’s 
experience, role and 
contribution within  
the Company.
The individual’s performance is 
reviewed annually, with changes 
to base salary appraised over  
a two-three-year period.  
Any change will be effective  
from 1 January in the year of  
the increase.
Base salary is positioned to 
be market competitive when 
considered against relevant 
international and FTSE 250 
companies (excluding  
Investment Trusts).
Paid in cash, subject to local tax 
and social security regulations.
In considering any increase in 
base salary, the Committee  
will consider:  
(1) the role and value of the 
individual, (2) changes in job 
scope or responsibility, (3) 
progression in the role (e.g. for a 
new appointee), (4) a significant 
increase in the scale of role and/
or size, value or complexity of the 
Group, (5) the need to maintain 
market competitiveness, and  
(6) increases paid to the wider 
global employee population in 
the Company’s most significant 
locations.
In line with the two-three year 
period for base salary appraisal, 
individual increases when paid 
are likely to be in excess of those 
for the wider population of 
employees for that year.
Any increase will take into account the 
individual’s performance, contribution 
and increasing experience.
Remuneration Policy 87
Governance 87
Governance Alignment/Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance
Other benefits
Provides normal market 
practice benefits.
A range of standard benefits 
including, but not limited to: car 
allowance, private medical care 
(including spouse and dependent 
children), life assurance, disability, 
health insurance together 
with relocation allowance and 
expatriate benefits.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to adjust the value  
of benefits where:  
(1) there is a significant change 
in the individual’s circumstances, 
(2) there is an increase in existing 
cost beyond the Company’s 
control, (3) there is a change in 
benefit provider(s), or (4) there 
is a change in an individual’s 
location; and to amend the type 
of benefits to reflect the above 
and market practice. 
Standard benefits remain a small 
percentage of total remuneration.
None.
Pension
Helps to recruit and retain  
key employees. 
Ensures income in retirement.
An allowance is given as a 
percentage of base salary. This 
may be used to participate in 
Vesuvius’ pension arrangements, 
invested in own pension 
arrangements or taken as a cash 
supplement (or any combination 
of the above options).
30% of base salary. None.
a nnual Incentive
Incentivises Executive 
Directors to achieve key short-
term financial and strategic 
targets of the Group.
Entire bonus amount payable in 
cash with no deferral. 
The Committee has the discretion 
to determine that actual incentive 
payments should be lower than 
levels calculated by reference to 
achievement against targets if it 
considers this to be appropriate.
Subject to clawback.
Below threshold: 0%.
On-target: 62.5% of base salary 
for the Chief Executive and  
50% of base salary for other 
Executive Directors.
Maximum: 125% of base salary 
for the Chief Executive and  
100% of base salary for other 
Executive Directors.
Payments made between 
threshold and on-target 
and between on-target and 
maximum are pro rated.
Annual Incentive is measured on 
targets set at the beginning of 
each year. Currently, it is based on 
Group Headline earnings per share 
which accounts for 100% of the 
performance measure, with an 
adjustment based on the Group’s 
working capital performance. The 
effect of this is to reduce payments 
by 10% if specified working capital 
targets are not met. The adjuster also 
increases payout by 10% if targets 
are exceeded, but not above the plan 
maximum. Going forward the plan 
may include other financial or non-
financial measures comprising KPIs, 
corporate objectives and personal 
performance.
The Committee establishes threshold 
and maximum performance targets 
for each financial year, set by 
reference to the Group budget  
and other objectives for that year.
Actual performance targets will be 
disclosed after the performance 
period has ended. They are not 
disclosed in this policy due to their 
commercial sensitivity. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 88 Section Four: Governance Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 88 Section Four: Governance
Alignment/Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance
Vesuvius Share Plan
Flexible “umbrella” Plan.
Aligns Executive Directors’ 
interests with those of 
shareholders through the 
delivery of shares.
Rewards Executive Directors 
for achieving the strategic 
objectives of growth in 
shareholder value and 
earnings.
Assists retention of Executive 
Directors over a three-year 
performance period.
Awards may be granted as:
•  Performance share awards
•  Deferred share bonus awards
•  Restricted Share awards
•  Market-price options.
Individuals are entitled to an 
aggregate annual maximum 
amount of awards. If more than 
one type of award is granted,  
the individual limit for all awards  
is reduced to remain within  
the maximum.
Awards vest three years after 
their award date subject to 
the achievement of specified 
conditions.
The Committee has the discretion 
to award participants the 
equivalent value of dividends 
accrued during the vesting  
period on any shares that vest.
Subject to clawback.
The Committee will only make 
awards of Performance Shares 
to Executive Directors under 
the Plan, and will consult 
with shareholders prior to 
granting other types of awards, 
excluding restricted share 
awards authorised under the 
recruitment policy.
Executive Directors are eligible  
to receive an annual award with  
a face value of up to 200% of 
base salary in performance  
share awards.
Vesting of 50% of performance share 
awards is subject to the Company’s 
TSR performance vs. the FTSE 250 
(excluding Investment Trusts), with:
•  0% vesting for below median 
performance
•  12.5% of the total award vesting at 
median performance
•  50% of the total award vesting at 
upper quintile performance
•  Pro rata vesting between median 
and upper quintile
Vesting of the remaining 50% of 
performance share awards is subject 
to the growth in the Company’s 
EPS. The Committee decides on the 
appropriate EPS growth targets each 
year, taking into account the Group’s 
prospects and the broader global 
economic environment.
The Company reserves the right 
only to disclose EPS performance 
targets after the performance period 
has ended due to their commercial 
sensitivity.
Prior to any vesting, the Remuneration 
Committee also reviews the 
underlying financial performance of 
the Company over the performance 
period to justify the vesting.
Legacy c ookson Group share schemes
Used to align Executive 
Directors’ interests with  
those of shareholders 
through share ownership.
Awards granted prior to the 
demerger remain outstanding.
No further awards will be made 
under these plans.
Subject to achieving the relevant 
vesting criteria, the Company will 
satisfy awards as they arise.
Performance and other conditions  
set at the time of award continue  
to operate.
Restricted Share award
A one-off award to 
compensate for prior 
employer long-term 
incentive awards forfeited on 
appointment at Vesuvius.
Dated 5 November 2012 to the 
Chief Financial Officer. Half of the 
award vested on first anniversary 
of joining, the remainder vested 
on 20 October 2014.
Shares to the face value of 1x 
base salary (108,805 Vesuvius 
shares), together with shares or 
cash to the value of dividends 
that would have accrued on the 
shares between date of award 
and vesting.
None. Holder must remain  
employed and not be under  
notice of termination.
Remuneration Policy continued 89
Governance 89
Governance Selection of performance measures
Measures for the Annual Incentive are selected to reflect key strategic aims and the need for a rigorous focus on working capital management. 
Each year the Committee will agree challenging targets to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
For the Vesuvius Share Plan, at the demerger, Vesuvius stated that the performance measures would be similar to those for the Cookson LTIP , 
to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders. On this 
basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius performance share awards are based half on TSR performance and half on EPS performance. 
The comparator for the TSR performance condition will be reviewed annually to ensure its continuing relevance for the Group. In 2015 the 
Committee agreed the continuation of comparison to the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts). In respect of the EPS measure, the Committee 
wished to align the target with the Company’s ambitions to grow ahead of end-markets. As an international company, a global metric was 
deemed important by the Committee, and in 2013 an EPS target, based upon out-performing global Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) 
growth was adopted. This has been carried through to 2015. Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review the performance 
conditions used, including EPS and other financial measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of challenging targets that clearly 
support the achievement of the Group’s strategic aims.
Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy for 2015
The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Directors for minimum, on-target and maximum performance. The fixed elements 
of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other benefits, using 2015 salary data. The assumptions on which they are calculated are 
as follows:
minimum: Fixed remuneration only
On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive and threshold vesting (i.e. median performance for TSR and threshold for EPS) 
for performance share awards (made at 200% of base salary) under the Vesuvius Share Plan
maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive and 100% vesting for performance share awards (made at 200% of base 
salary) under the Vesuvius Share Plan
Remuneration illustrations £000
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
Annual variable elements Long-term variable elements Fixed elements
Minimum On-Target Maximum
£757
£1,376
£2,545
100%
55%
25%
20%
30%
27%
43%
Minimum On-Target Maximum
£481
£838
£1,552
100% 58%
21%
21%
31%
23%
46%
François Wanecq, Chief Executive Chris O’Shea, CFO Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 90 Section Four: Governance Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 90 Section Four: Governance
Recruitment Policy
On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically use the above policy to determine ongoing 
remuneration. However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to  
meet specific circumstances.
Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the policy taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee. If it is 
appropriate to appoint an individual on a base salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual 
performance, the Committee retains the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result 
in a higher rate of annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy. If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, it 
will be noted in the first Annual Directors’ remuneration report following an individual’s appointment. Other than in exceptional circumstances, 
other elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with this policy. The Committee retains the discretion to make the 
following exceptions:
•  In the event that an internal appointment is made, the Committee may continue with existing remuneration provisions where appropriate;
•  If necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment from an international pool of candidates, the Committee may make additional 
payments linked to relocation, above those outlined in the policy table and would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance and 
repatriation, as well as other associated international mobility terms. Such benefits would be set at a level which the Committee considers 
appropriate for the role and the individual’s circumstances; and
•  In order to provide an immediate interest in the Company’s performance, the Committee may grant, on recruitment, an award of 
Performance Shares (with a market value of up to 200% of salary) under the Vesuvius Share Plan and/or an individual award agreement (under 
Listing Rule 9.4.2 (2)) on similar terms. Performance conditions for any such award will be set in line with the policy and the Committee will 
determine the vesting period that will apply to such awards at the time of award, taking into account the strategy and business circumstances 
of Vesuvius.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the service contract  
section below. 
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, the Committee may consider buying out incentive awards that an individual 
forfeits in accepting an appointment with Vesuvius. The Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.2 (2) or to apply the 
existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Share awards on recruitment. In making any such awards, the Committee 
will review the terms of any forfeited awards, including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and 
the likelihood of the performance targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buyout award the 
Committee determines is necessary and appropriate. The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a pre-
agreed level prior to vesting of any such awards. The value of any buyout award will be capped, to ensure its maximum value is no higher than 
the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius. Any such awards will be subject to clawback.
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent with those currently 
adopted. Variable pay will not be considered. With respect to Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the policy at the time 
of appointment.
Exit Payment Policy
Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period for Executive Directors. Any such payment in lieu 
will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which the Director would have been entitled for the duration of 
the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case. Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the 
remainder in equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their forgone notice period falls (and are reduced 
or extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Executive in this time). Executive Directors are subject to certain non-
compete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their 
employment. Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Neither of the Executive Directors’ contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the 
Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated in different leaver scenarios 
and on a change of control. Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining “good leaver” status, it typically defines a “good 
leaver” in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in 
which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be part of the Group. Final treatment is subject to the Committee’s discretion.
Remuneration Policy continued 91
Governance 91
Governance Event Timing Calculation of vesting/payment
a nnual Incentive Plan
Good leaver Paid at the same time as to 
continuing employees
Annual bonus is paid only to the extent 
that any performance conditions have been 
satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion 
of the financial year worked before cessation 
of employment
Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus
c hange of control Paid on the effective date of change  
of control
Annual bonus is paid only to the extent 
that any performance conditions have been 
satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion 
of the financial year worked
Vesuvius Share Plan
Good leaver On normal vesting date (or earlier at the 
Committee’s discretion)
Unvested awards vest to the extent that any 
performance conditions have been satisfied 
and a pro rata reduction applies to the 
value of the awards to take into account the 
proportion of vesting period not served
Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse on cessation 
of employment
c hange of control
1
On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any 
performance conditions have been satisfied 
and a pro rata reduction applies for the 
proportion of the vesting period not served
NOTE
1.   In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced 
by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Committee retains discretion to settle amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, 
for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company 
wishes to enter into a settlement agreement (as provided for below) and where the individual must seek independent legal advice. The 
Company would pay any amounts to which the departing Director was legally entitled. In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve 
new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including (but not limited to) settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants 
and/or consultancy arrangements. This would only be used where the Committee believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so.
Service contracts
The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice. Service contracts 
currently operate on a rolling basis and are limited to a 12 month notice period.
François Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated 
17 October 2012. Chris O’Shea is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Cookson Group plc 
dated 10 September 2012. Both service agreements were assigned to Vesuvius upon completion of the demerger on 19 December 2012.  
Each Executive Director’s appointment is terminable by Vesuvius on not less than 12 months’ written notice, and by each Executive Director 
on not less than six months’ written notice.
c onsiderations of conditions elsewhere in the Group in developing policy
The Company does not consult directly with employees on Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements. However, the Remuneration 
Committee will take into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors’ 
remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases. The Remuneration Committee will also obtain information on the 
remuneration paid for comparable roles at other relevant companies to provide a point of reference for determining Remuneration Policy. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 92 Section Four: Governance Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 92 Section Four: Governance
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors compared to other employees
The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy set out at the beginning of this report 
– which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group. Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on the same elements 
as those for other employees – base salary, fixed benefits, and retirement benefits – with performance-related pay extending down into 
the management cadres and beyond. However, given that remuneration structures for other employees need to reflect both seniority and 
local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors. In particular, Executive Directors receive a higher proportion of their 
remuneration in performance-related pay and share-based payments and individual percentages of fixed versus variable remuneration and 
participation in share-based structures decline with seniority.
The process for delivering salary increases on a two-three year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to members of the Group Executive 
Committee and their direct managerial reports. While all employees receive an annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to 
receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers participate in the Annual Incentive Plan. For operational employees, any potential 
award is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group performance, business unit performance, and individual achievement of 
personal objectives. For functional employees, the award is predominantly based on Group performance, with the remainder awarded against 
achievement of personal objectives. The awards for middle and senior managers are also adjusted to reflect the level of performance by the 
business with regard to its working capital management.
For certain senior and middle managers awards are made under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan (“MTP”). Awards under the MTP are based on 
the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan for those managers. Middle managers participate in the MTP at varying percentage 
levels, with awards being made in cash. Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares. In each case, awards are granted 
following the end of the relevant financial year. The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing 
employment. From 2014 onwards members of the Group Executive Committee (who in 2013 were included in the above MTP in shares) will 
instead participate in the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, which will vest in accordance with the same measures 
and targets as those for Executive Directors. Levels of awards will differ from those of Executive Directors.
c onsideration of shareholder views
Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters. As 
Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions investors wish to have on 
remuneration matters. During 2014, remuneration matters were discussed at a number of meetings with investors. The feedback from such 
meetings is always shared with the Committee and taken into consideration when decisions are made about future remuneration strategy  
and arrangements.
Shareholding Policy 
The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least 
1x salary. To this end, Executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% (measured as the value after tax) of any Performance 
Share awards vesting under the Vesuvius Share Plan, until this criterion has been met. New Executive Directors will be allowed four years in 
which to acquire this shareholding. 
c lawback arrangements
The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements. In the event that a misstatement is identified in the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior year’s accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate  
of any variable executive remuneration – being all Annual Incentive and Performance Share awards made under the Vesuvius Share Plan – 
resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions. The misstatement  
must be identified and notified to the individual in writing within three years after the end of the relevant performance period. 
External appointments
Whilst neither of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-executive Director of any other quoted company, subject always to consent being 
granted by the Company for them to take up such an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would allow them to retain any fees 
they received for the performance of their duties.
Remuneration Policy continued 93
Governance 93
Governance Policy for Non-executive Directors
The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a 
relevant industry and geographical sectors, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographic spread of the 
Company’s activities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to 
debate the Company’s strategic direction. All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the 
Company’s business and to maintain their specific technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the 
practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity. The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions 
on their own remuneration. No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors. Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement 
of reasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings.
Alignment/Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance
Fees
To attract and retain Non-executive 
Directors of the necessary skill and 
experience by offering market 
competitive fees.
No eligibility for participation in 
incentive schemes, bonus schemes  
or retirement plans.
Fees are reviewed bi-annually by  
the Board.
Non-executive Directors are paid  
a base fee for the performance of  
their role, payable in cash, plus 
additional fees for Committee 
chairmanship or acting as the  
Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is paid a single fee  
and receives administrative support 
from the Company.
Non-executive Directors and the 
Chairman will be paid market 
appropriate fees, with any increase 
reflecting changes in the market  
or adjustments to a specific  
Non-executive Director’s role.
No eligibility for bonuses, retirement 
benefits or to participate in the 
Group’s employee share plans.
Overall fees paid to Non-executive 
Directors will remain within the 
aggregate limit stated in our Articles, 
currently £500,000.
None.
Terms of service
The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment. Each Non-executive Director is 
appointed subject to their election at the Company’s first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent 
Annual General Meetings. None of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time. During the 
first year of his/her appointment the Chairman is entitled to 12 months’ notice from the Company; thereafter, he/she is entitled to six months’ 
notice from the Company. All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the 
end of the three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation. The Board retains discretion to extend 
the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satisfied.
The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors:
Non-executive Director Date of appointment
John McDonough CBE 31 October 2012
Nelda Connors 1 March 2013
Christer Gardell 31 October 2012
Jeff Hewitt
1
31 October 2012
Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012
NOTE 
1.  Jeff Hewitt previously served as a Non-executive Director of Cookson Group plc from June 2005. Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 94 Section Four: Governance
The Directors submit their Annual report 
together with the audited accounts of the 
Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, 
registered in England and Wales No. 8217766, 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the 
Company to provide a Directors’ report for 
Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December 
2014. The information that fulfils this 
requirement and which is incorporated by 
reference into, and forms part of, this report 
is included in the following sections of the 
Annual report:
•  The Our Responsibility section
•  The Governance section
•  Financial Instruments: the information on 
financial risk management objectives and 
policies contained in Notes 21 and 28 to the 
consolidated financial statements
This Directors’ report and the Strategic report 
contained in pages 2 to 53 together represent 
the management report for the purpose of 
compliance with DTR 4. 1.8R of the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules. The Company does not have any 
overseas branches within the meaning of  
the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
Information on the business environment 
in which the Group operates, including the 
factors that are likely to impact the future 
prospects of the Group, is included in the 
Strategic report. The principal risks and 
uncertainties that the Group faces throughout 
its global operations are shown on pages 22 
and 23. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and debt 
facilities are also described in the Strategic 
Report. In addition, Notes 21 and 28 to the 
consolidated financial statements set out the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; financial risks; financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit, market (both currency 
and interest rate-related) and liquidity risk. 
Further details of the Group’s cash balances 
and borrowings are included in Notes 14, 
15 and 28 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
The Directors have prepared cash flow 
forecasts for the Group for a period in excess 
of 12 months from the date of approval of the 
2014 financial statements. These forecasts 
reflect an assessment of current and future 
end-market conditions and their impact on 
the Group’s future trading performance. The 
forecasts show that the Group will be able to 
operate within the current committed debt 
facilities and show continued compliance 
with the Company’s financial covenants. 
On the basis of the exercise described 
above and the Group’s available committed 
debt facilities, the Directors consider that 
the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the 12 months from the date of signing 
these accounts. Accordingly, they continue 
to adopt a going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements of the Group and 
the Company.
Research & development
The Group’s investment in research & 
development (“R&D”) during the year under 
review amounted to £26. 1m (representing 
1.8% of Group revenue (2013: 1.8%).  
Further details of the Group’s R&D activities 
can be found on pages 15 and 16 of the 
Strategic report.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 5.0 pence (2013: 
4.75 pence) per Vesuvius ordinary share was 
paid on 26 September 2014 to Vesuvius 
shareholders. The Board is recommending 
a final dividend in respect of 2014 of 
1 1. 125 pence (2013: 10.25 pence) per  
ordinary share which, if approved, will be  
paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on  
the register at 10 April 2015.
a ccountability and audit
A responsibility statement of the Directors and 
a statement by the auditor about its reporting 
responsibilities can be found on pages 97 and 
100 to 102 respectively. The Directors fulfil the 
responsibilities set out in their statement within 
the context of an overall control environment 
of central strategic direction and delegated 
operating responsibility. As at the date of this 
report, so far as each Director of the Company 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware 
and each Director hereby confirms that they 
have taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor is aware 
of that information.
a uditor reappointment
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue in office as auditor of the Company, 
and consequently, resolutions for the 
reappointment of KPMG as auditor of the 
Company and to authorise the Directors 
to determine its remuneration are to be 
proposed at the AGM.
Directors
The Directors of the Company are Nelda 
Connors, Christer Gardell, Jeff Hewitt, 
Jane Hinkley, John McDonough CBE, Chris 
O’Shea and François Wanecq. Two new 
Directors, Douglas Hurt and Hock Goh, will 
join the Board on 2 April 2015. Jeff Hewitt 
will retire from the Board at the close of the 
forthcoming AGM. All the other Directors, 
including the new appointees, will retire at  
the AGM and offer themselves for re-election. 
Biographical information for the current 
Directors is given on pages 56 and 57 . Further 
information on the remuneration of, and 
contractual arrangements for, the current 
Executive and Non-executive Directors is 
given on pages 75 to 93 in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. The Non-executive 
Directors do not have service agreements. 
Biographical information and details of the 
contractual arrangements for the new Non-
executive Directors will be included in the 
Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ indemnities
The Directors have been granted Qualifying 
Third Party Indemnity Provisions by the 
Company and the Directors of the Group’s 
UK Pension Plan Trustee Board (none of 
whom are Directors of Vesuvius plc) have 
been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme 
Indemnity Provisions by Vesuvius Pension 
Plans Trustees Ltd. The indemnities for 
Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force 
since the date of their appointment. The 
Pension Trustee indemnities were in force 
throughout the last financial year and remain 
in force.
a nnual General meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company 
will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s 
Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Thursday 
14 May 2015 at 1 1.00 am.
Directors’ report 95
Governance Greenhouse gas emissions
Information on our reporting of greenhouse 
gas emissions, and the methodology used 
to record these, is set out on page 49 of the 
Strategic report.
Donations
In accordance with Company policy, no 
political donations were made in 2014  
(2013: nil).
c hange of control provisions
The terms of the Group’s committed bank 
facility and US Private Placement Loan Notes 
contain provisions entitling the counterparties 
to exercise termination or other rights in the 
event of a change of control on takeover of 
the Company. A number of the arrangements 
to which the Company and its subsidiaries are 
party, such as other debt arrangements and 
share incentive plans, may alter or terminate 
on a change of control in the event of a 
takeover. In the context of the Group as a 
whole, these other arrangements are not 
considered to be significant.
Share capital
As at the date of this report, the Company 
had an issued share capital of 278,485,071 
ordinary shares of 10p each. 7 ,271, 174 of 
these ordinary shares are held in Treasury. 
Therefore, the total number of Vesuvius plc 
shares with voting rights is 271,213,897 .
Further information relating to the Company’s 
issued share capital can be found in Note 7  
to the Company financial statements.
The Company’s Articles specify that, subject 
to the authorisation of an appropriate 
resolution passed by a general meeting 
of the Company, Directors can allot 
relevant securities under Section 551 of the 
Companies Act, up to the aggregate nominal 
amount specified by that Act. In addition, 
the Articles state the Directors can seek the 
authority of shareholders in general meeting 
to allot equity securities for cash without first 
being required to offer such shares to existing 
ordinary shareholders in proportion to their 
existing holdings in connection with a rights 
issue and in other circumstances up to an 
aggregate nominal amount as specified in 
Section 561 of the Companies Act.
At the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 
2014, the Directors were authorised to 
issue relevant securities up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £18,080,926 and to 
be empowered to allot equity securities for 
cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £1,392,425, 
at any time up to the earlier of the date of 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting or 30 
June 2015. The Directors propose to renew 
these authorities at the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting for a further year. In the year ahead, 
other than in respect of Vesuvius’ ability to 
satisfy rights granted to employees under its 
various share-based incentive arrangements, 
the Directors have no present intention of 
issuing any share capital of Vesuvius.
a uthority for purchase of own shares 
Subject to the provisions of Company law 
and any other applicable regulations, the 
Company may purchase its own shares. At 
the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
held on 15 May 2014 Vesuvius shareholders 
gave authority to the Company to make 
market purchases of up to 27 , 121,389 
Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% 
of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital as at the latest practicable day prior to 
the publication of the Notice of AGM. This 
authority expires on 30 June 2015 or the date 
of the AGM to be held in 2015, whichever is 
the earlier. The Directors will seek renewal of 
this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
In 2013 the Company acquired 7 ,271, 174 
ordinary shares, representing a nominal value 
of £727 , 1 17 and 2.6% of the entire called-
up share capital of the Company prior to 
the purchase. These shares were purchased 
pursuant to the Board’s commitment to 
return the majority of the net proceeds of the 
disposal of the Precious Metals Processing 
division to shareholders. These shares 
are currently held as Treasury shares. The 
Company has not subsequently disposed of 
any of the repurchased shares. During the 
year, the Company did not make any further 
acquisitions of shares, any acquisitions by 
nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares 
previously acquired. The Company does  
not have a lien over any of its shares. 
Share plans
Vesuvius operates a number of share-based 
incentive plans , some of which have been 
carried over from Cookson Group plc. For the 
majority of these plans the Group can satisfy 
entitlements by the acquisition of existing 
shares, the transfer of Treasury shares or by 
the issue of new shares. Existing shares are 
held in an employee share ownership trust 
(“ESOP”). The trustee of the ESOP purchases 
shares in the open market as required, to 
enable the Group to meet liabilities for the 
issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest. 
The trustee does not register votes in respect 
of these shares and has waived the right to 
receive any dividends.
In 2014 the trustee of the ESOP purchased 
101,847 ordinary shares of 10p each in 
Vesuvius plc with a nominal value of £10, 185 
at an average price, including transaction 
costs of 490.43 pence per share. Subsequent 
to the year-end, the ESOP purchased a further 
371,040 shares at an average price, including 
transaction costs, of 442.38 pence per share. 
See Note 25 to the consolidated financial 
statements for further information. 
Pensions
In each country in which the Group operates, 
the pension arrangements in place are 
considered to be consistent with good 
employment practice in that particular area. 
Independent advisers are used to ensure that 
the plans are operated in accordance with 
local legislation and the rules of each plan. 
Group policy prohibits direct investment 
of pension fund assets in the Company’s 
shares. Outside the UK, the US, Germany and 
Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the 
Group are of a defined contribution nature.
The Group’s UK defined benefits plan (the 
“UK Plan”) and the main US defined benefits 
plan are closed to new entrants and have 
ceased providing future benefits accrual,  
with all eligible employees instead being 
provided with benefits through defined 
contribution arrangements.
For the Group’s closed UK Plan a Trustee 
Board exists comprising employees, former 
employees and an independent trustee. The 
Board currently comprises six trustee directors, 
of whom two are member-nominated. The 
administration of the plan is outsourced. 
The Company is mindful of its obligations 
under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the 
need to comply with the guidance issued by 
the Pensions Regulator. Regular dialogue is 
maintained between the Company and the 
Trustee Board of the UK Plan to ensure that 
both Company and Trustee are apprised of 
the same financial and other information 
about the Group and the UK Plan. This is 
pertinent to each being able to contribute to 
the effective functioning of the UK Plan.  Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 96 Section Four: Governance
Directors’ Report continued
The latest full valuation of the UK Plan 
showed a funding surplus, as a result of 
which Company contributions ceased in July 
2013. However, the Company has agreed to 
make voluntary contributions of £2.0m per 
annum at least until the next valuation date 
in recognition of the potential funding strain 
resulting from the ongoing derisking initiatives 
likely to be undertaken in the short term.
The Group’s worldwide net pension deficit at 
31 December 2014 was £51. 1m (31 December 
2013: £47 .9m). 
The significant reduction in discount rates 
across the UK, US and Germany and increased 
mortality rate assumptions in the US drove 
pension liabilities higher by £83.4m but this 
was largely offset by actuarial gains on plan 
assets of £76.8m especially in the UK’s fixed 
income securities, £3.6m of net settlement 
gains arising from closure of the defined 
benefit pension plan in the Netherlands and 
continued Company contributions to fund  
the pension plans.
Further details of pension arrangements  
are given in Note 29 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Restrictions on transfer of shares  
and voting
The Company’s Articles of Association 
(“ Articles”) do not contain any specific 
restrictions on the size of a holding or on 
the transfer of shares. The Directors are not 
aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
voting rights. 
No person has any special rights with regard 
to the control of the Company’s share capital 
and all issued shares are fully paid. This is a 
summary only and the relevant provisions 
of the Articles should be consulted if further 
information is required.
a mendment of a rticles of a ssociation
The Company may make amendments to 
the Articles by way of special resolution in 
accordance with the Companies Act.
Interests in the c ompany’s shares
The Company has been notified in 
accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the following interests 
of 3%, or more, of its issued ordinary shares:
31 Dec  
2014
3 Mar  
2015
Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11
Artisan Partners 11.04 11.04
Morgan Stanley 5.99 6.09
Pelham Capital 
Management CfD 5.91 5.91
Franklin Templeton 5.01 5.01
The interests of Directors and their connected 
persons in the ordinary shares of the 
Company as disclosed in accordance with 
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority 
are as set out on page 83 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration report and details of the 
Directors’ long-term incentive awards are  
set out on pages 81 and 82.
The Directors’ report has been approved by 
the Board and is signed on its behalf by:
Henry Knowles 
Company Secretary 
3 March 2015
In compliance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rule 9.8.4, we present the following disclosures for your consideration:
Disclosure requirement under LR 9.8.4 Reference/Location
(1)  Interest capitalised by the Group during the year Not applicable
(2)  Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of any long-term incentive schemes Pages 88 and 89
(5)  Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 
(6)  Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable
(7)  Allotment for cash of equity securities made during the year Not applicable 
(8)  Allotment for cash of equity securities made by a major unlisted subsidiary during the year Not applicable 
(9)  Details of participation of parent undertaking in any placing made during the year Not applicable 
(10)  Details of relevant contracts in which a Director or controlling shareholder was interested 
during the year Not applicable
(1 1)  Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder during the year Not applicable
(12)  Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed  
to waive any dividends
Vesuvius plc holds 7 ,271, 174 of its £0. 10 
ordinary shares as Treasury shares. No dividends 
are payable on these shares. Cookson 
Investments (Jersey) Limited, the Trustee of 
the Company’s ESOP , has agreed to waive on 
an ongoing basis any dividends payable on 
shares it holds for the benefit of the Company’s 
Employee Share Plans, details of which can be 
found on page 95 
(13)  Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends See above 
(14)  Statements relating to controlling shareholders and ensuring company independence Not applicable 97
Governance The Directors of Vesuvius plc are responsible 
for preparing the Annual report and the 
Group and parent company (the “Company”) 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and Company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under 
that law they are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the Company financial statements 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards 
and applicable law (“UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice”).
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
•   Select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently
•   Make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
•   For the Group financial statements, state 
whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union
•   For the Company financial statements, 
state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Company financial 
statements
•   Prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and  
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing a 
Strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and Corporate 
governance report that comply with that  
law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors 
in respect of the a nnual financial report
Each of the Directors confirms that to the best 
of their knowledge:
•   The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
•   The Directors’ report and Strategic report 
include a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face
In addition, the Directors consider that the 
Annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The names and functions of the Directors of 
Vesuvius plc are as follows:
John McDonough  Chairman 
François Wanecq  Chief Executive 
Chris O’Shea  Chief Financial Officer 
Nelda Connors  Non-executive Director 
Christer Gardell  Non-executive Director 
Jeff Hewitt   Non-executive Director, 
Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee 
Jane Hinkley   Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of 
the Remuneration 
Committee
On behalf of the Board
c hris O’Shea 
3 March 2015
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual report and financial statements 98 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements  In this section 
100 Independent auditor’s report
103  Group income statement
104  Group statement of comprehensive income
105  Group statement of cash flows
106  Group balance sheet
107  Group statement of changes in equity
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
148 Company balance sheet
149 Notes to the Company financial statements
154 Five-year summary: Divisional results
154 Shareholder information
156  Glossary
Financial  
Statements
Section Five
5
Financial Statement S FINa Nc Ia L STa TEmENTS
99 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 100
Opinions and conclusions  
arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial 
statements is unmodified We have 
audited the financial statements of Vesuvius 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 
which comprise the Group income statement, 
the Group statement of comprehensive 
income, the Group statement of cash flows, 
the Group and Company balance sheets, the 
Group statement of changes in equity, and 
the related Notes. In our opinion: 
• The financial statements give a true and  
fair view of the state of the Group’s and  
of the parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s 
profit for the year then ended
• The Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union
• The parent Company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards
• The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation
2 Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion 
above on the financial statements, the risks of 
material misstatement that had the greatest 
effect on our audit were as follows:
Recognition of deferred tax assets (£54.0m): 
Refer to page 68 (Audit Committee report), 
page 1 15 (accounting policy) and page 1 18 
(financial disclosures).
The risk: The Group recognised in 2013 
a deferred tax asset of £29.2m in respect 
of unutilised losses and other temporary 
differences arising in the US. The amount 
recognised in 2014 has increased to 
£54.0m. The Group also has losses and 
other temporary differences for which no 
deferred tax asset has been recognised in 
these financial statements. The recognition or 
otherwise of a deferred tax asset in respect of 
these losses and other temporary differences 
is based on judgement in respect of the 
timing and quantum of expected future 
profits and the ability of the Group to offset 
any of its accumulated losses against these 
expected profits. 
Our response: We compared the 
assumptions used in respect of future taxable 
profit forecasts to the Group’s long-term 
forecasts. We considered, amongst other 
things, historical levels of US tax profits, the 
historical accuracy of forecasts, the growth 
forecasts used by the Group, and the period 
over which those forecasts were applied. This 
included critically assessing the assumptions 
and judgements made by the Directors 
in those growth forecasts, by using our 
knowledge of the Group and the industry 
in which it operates and by comparing 
growth assumptions to externally derived 
data. We also assessed the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosures setting out the basis of 
the deferred tax balance and the level of 
estimation involved.
Income tax payable and provisions (£44.9m): 
Refer to page 68 (Audit Committee report), 
page 1 15 (accounting policy) and page 1 18 
(financial disclosures).
The risk: Provisions for tax contingencies 
require the Directors to make judgements and 
estimates in relation to income tax issues and 
exposures. This is one of the key judgemental 
areas that our audit concentrated on due 
to the Group operating in a number of tax 
jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer 
pricing and other international tax legislation, 
and the time taken for tax matters to be 
agreed with the tax authorities.
Our response: In this area our audit 
procedures included the use of our own 
global tax specialists to assess the Group’s 
tax positions, and its correspondence with 
the relevant tax authorities to analyse and 
challenge the assumptions, such as the 
likelihood of settlement, used to determine 
tax provisions based on our knowledge and 
experience of the application of international 
and local legislation by the relevant authorities 
and courts. We also considered the adequacy 
of the Group’s disclosures in respect of 
income tax payable and provisions.
Provisions (£52.7m):
Refer to page 68 (Audit Committee report), 
page 146 (accounting policy) and page 146 
(financial disclosures).
The risk: In providing for known or probable 
costs, resulting from indirect tax, legal, 
regulatory, or environmental requirements, 
the Directors use their judgement, experience, 
and where appropriate receive external 
advice, in order to make provisions in the 
financial statements for such matters. The 
inherent uncertainty and risk could have 
material impact on the Group’s financial 
position and result for the year. 
Our response: In this area our audit 
procedures included obtaining an 
understanding from the Directors of the basis 
for their best estimates, and then challenging 
the basis used with reference to the latest 
available corroborative information, in light 
of our understanding of the business, and by 
obtaining third-party confirmations where 
appropriate. In addition we met with the 
Group’s in-house legal counsel to discuss the 
nature of ongoing claims, and obtained formal 
confirmations from the Group’s external 
counsel for all significant litigation. We also 
assessed whether the Group’s disclosures 
about provisions, contingent liabilities, and the 
movements in the year were appropriate. 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Vesuvius plc Only 101
Financial Statement S
3 Our application of materiality and an 
overview of the scope of our audit The 
materiality for the Group financial statements 
as a whole was set at £5.7m (2013: £7 .0m). 
This has been determined with reference 
to a benchmark of Group profit before 
taxation, of which it represents 5% (2013: 
6.7%). We have reduced the percentage of 
the benchmark from 6.7% to 5% in 2014 to 
move in line with the peer group for other 
similar businesses. 
We report to the Audit Committee any 
corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £0.3m, in addition 
to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s 53 reporting components, 
we subjected 17 to audits for Group reporting 
purposes and three to specified risk-focused 
audit procedures. For coverage achieved  
by Group reporting please refer to the  
chart below.
The remaining 27% of total Group revenue, 
13% of Group profit before tax and 13% 
of total Group assets are represented by 
33 reporting components, none of which 
individually represented more than 4% of any 
of total Group revenue, Group profit before 
tax or total Group assets. For these remaining 
components, we performed analysis at an 
aggregated Group level to re-examine our 
assessment that there were no significant  
risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component 
auditors as to the significant areas to be 
covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported 
back. The Group audit team approved the 
component materialities, which ranged  
from £0. 1m to £5.6m, having regard to the 
mix of size and risk profile of the Group  
across the components. The work on 18 
of the 20 components was performed by 
component auditors and the rest by the 
Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited six component 
locations in Brazil, the UK, the US, Germany, 
Poland, and China. Telephone conference 
meetings were also held with these 
component auditors and all others that were 
not physically visited. At these visits and 
meetings, the findings reported to the Group 
audit team were discussed in more detail,  
and any further work required by the Group 
audit team was then performed by the 
component auditor.
c overage
Covered by audits for Group reporting purposes
Covered by specified audit procedures for Group reporting purposes
Not in-scope for Group reporting purposes
48
25
27
Group’s 
revenue
%
69
18
13
Group’s proﬁt 
before tax
%
75
12
13
Group’s 
total assets
%
materiality to the Group financial statements
Proﬁt before tax Materiality
£5.7m
Group ﬁnancial 
statements 
materiality
£0.3m
Misstatements 
reported to the 
Audit Committee
£111.2m Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 102
4 Our opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the c ompanies a ct 2006 
is unmodified In our opinion: 
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006
• The information given in the Strategic  
report and the Directors’ report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent  
with the financial statements
5 We have nothing to report in respect 
of the matters on which we are required 
to report by exception Under ISAs (UK 
and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired 
during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the Annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is 
otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to 
you if: 
• We have identified material inconsistencies 
between the knowledge we acquired 
during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the 
Annual report and financial statements 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Group’s performance,  
business model and strategy or
• The Audit Committee report does 
not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the  
Audit Committee
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• Adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited  
by us or 
• The parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns or 
• Certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are 
not made or 
• We have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review: 
• The Directors’ statement, set out on  
page 94, in relation to going concern
• The part of the Corporate governance 
statement on page 61 relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
responsibilities statement set out on 
page 97 , the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. A description of the 
scope of an audit of financial statements 
is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body 
and is subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.
com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out 
in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis 
of our opinions.
Paul Korolkiewicz (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 
3 March 2015 
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Vesuvius plc only continued Notes
2014 2013
Headline  
performance 
£m
Separately 
reported 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Headline 
performance 
£m
Separately 
reported 
items 
£m
Total 
£m
c ontinuing operations
Revenue 5 1,444.4 — 1,444.4 1,510.5 — 1,510.5
Manufacturing costs (1,048.3) — (1,048.3) (1,100.0) — (1,100.0)
Administration, selling and distribution costs (253.3) — (253.3) (270.5) — (270.5)
Trading profit 5 142.8 — 142.8 140.0 — 140.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 17 — (17.0) (17.0) — (17.4) (17.4)
Restructuring charges 7 — — — — (3.9) (3.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 142.8 (17.0) 125.8 140.0 (21.3) 118.7
Net finance costs 10 (16.4) — (16.4) (17.3) — (17.3)
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.4 — 1.4 2.5 — 2.5
Profit on disposal of continuing operations 9 — 0.4 0.4 — 0.2 0.2
Profit/(loss) before tax 127.8 (16.6) 111.2 125.2 (21.1) 104.1
Income tax (costs)/credits 11 (32.9) 25.8 (7.1) (32.5) 38.8 6.3
Profit/(loss) from: 
c ontinuing operations 94.9 9.2 104.1 92.7 17.7 110.4
Discontinued operations 23 — (3.6) (3.6) — 29.9 29.9
Profit 94.9 5.6 100.5 92.7 47.6 140.3
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the parent 90.3 5.6 95.9 87.7 47.6 135.3
Non-controlling interests 4.6 — 4.6 5.0 — 5.0
Profit 94.9 5.6 100.5 92.7 47.6 140.3
Earnings per share  — pence 12
Continuing operations  — basic 36.8 38.4
 — diluted 36.7 38.3
Total operations  — basic 35.5 49.2
 — diluted 35.4 49.1
 Group income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
103
Financial Statement S Notes
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Profit 100.5 140.3
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of income tax
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets 29.6 (9.9) 10.2
Income tax relating to items not reclassified 11.4 0.5 (1.6)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations (9.6) (55.0)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations — (6.2)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 26 (0.3) 0.3
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 26 (0.2) 0.4
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 26 (0.2) 0.1
Other comprehensive loss, net of income tax (19.7) (51.8)
Total comprehensive income 80.8 88.5
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 75.7 86.9
Non-controlling interests 5.1 1.6
Total comprehensive income 80.8 88.5
 Group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 104 Notes
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
c ash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 13 145.0 160.7
Net interest paid (12.0) (11.8)
Income taxes paid (24.4) (30.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 108.6 118.5
c ash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure (53.1) (46.3)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2.0 1.6
Proceeds from the sale of investments 0.6 0.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired 22 (23.4) — 
Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash disposed of — 44.1
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.6 1.3
Other investing outflows (2.3) (1.4)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (75.6) (0.4)
Net cash inflow before financing activities 33.0 118.1
c ash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings 15 (9.8) (112.2)
Settlement of forward foreign exchange contracts 4.8 (1.4)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital — 0.1
Purchase of own shares (0.5) (34.1)
Borrowing facility arrangement costs — (0.4)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 27 (41.2) (39.4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (2.6) (1.1)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (49.3) (188.5)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 15 (16.3) (70.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 52.8 124.7
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 15 2.0 (1.5)
c ash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 38.5 52.8
c ontinuing  
operations  
£m
Discontinued  
operations  
£m
2014 
total 
£m
Continuing 
operations  
£m
Discontinued 
operations  
£m
2013  
total 
£m
Free cash flow
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 109.1 (0.5) 108.6 128.4 (9.9) 118.5
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 3.2 — 3.2 11.0 — 11.0
Capital expenditure (53.1) — (53.1) (46.3) — (46.3)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2.0 — 2.0 1.6 — 1.6
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.6 — 0.6 1.3 — 1.3
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (2.6) — (2.6) (1.1) — (1.1)
Free cash flow 59.2 (0.5) 58.7 94.9 (9.9) 85.0
 Group statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
105
Financial Statement S Notes
2014
£m
2013 
as restated 
£m
a ssets
Property, plant and equipment 16 291.8 274.7
Intangible assets 17 703.9 717.7
Employee benefits — net surpluses 29 49.8 28.7
Interests in joint ventures 16.9 15.4
Investments 3.3 4.2
Income tax recoverable 11 2.9 4.2
Deferred tax assets 11 71.4 43.7
Other receivables 16.5 14.3
Total non-current assets 1,156.5 1,102.9
Cash and short-term deposits 14 76.9 76.6
Inventories 20 191.9 181.9
Trade and other receivables 19 334.1 313.7
Income tax recoverable 11 4.0 3.5
Derivative financial instruments 21 — 0.3
Total current assets 606.9 576.0
Total assets 1,763.4 1,678.9
Equity
Issued share capital 24 27.8 27.8
Retained earnings 25 2,332.1 2,284.6
Other reserves 26 (1,466.7) (1,455.8)
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 893.2 856.6
Non-controlling interests 29.9 27.3
Total equity 923.1 883.9
Liabilities
Interest-bearing borrowings 28 304.9 309.5
Employee benefits — net liabilities 29 100.9 76.6
Other payables 31 18.2 18.6
Provisions 33 31.9 35.3
Deferred tax liabilities 11 50.3 51.0
Total non-current liabilities 506.2 491.0
Interest-bearing borrowings 28 40.3 23.5
Trade and other payables 31 221.0 214.5
Income tax payable 11 51.8 45.0
Provisions 33 20.8 20.8
Derivative financial instruments 21 0.2 0.2
Total current liabilities 334.1 304.0
Total liabilities 840.3 795.0
Total equity and liabilities 1,763.4 1,678.9
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 3 March 2015 and signed on their behalf by:
François Wanecq c hris O’Shea
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
 Group balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 106  Group statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Issued 
share 
capital 
£m
Other 
reserves  
£m
Retained 
earnings  
£m
Owners of  
the parent  
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests  
£m
Total  
equity  
£m
As at 1 January 2013 27.8 (1,399.0) 2,212.2 841.0 26.8 867.8
Profit — — 135.3 135.3 5.0 140.3
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of income tax
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets — — 10.2 10.2 — 10.2
Income tax relating to items not reclassified — — (1.6) (1.6) — (1.6)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — (51.6) — (51.6) (3.4) (55.0)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations — (6.2) — (6.2) — (6.2)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — 0.3 — 0.3 — 0.3
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — 0.4 — 0.4 — 0.4
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — 0.1 — 0.1 — 0.1
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of income tax — (57.0) 8.6 (48.4) (3.4) (51.8)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income — (57.0) 143.9 86.9 1.6 88.5
Purchase of own shares — — (34.1) (34.1) — (34.1)
Recognition of share-based payments — — 2.1 2.1 — 2.1
Dividends paid (Note 27) — — (39.4) (39.4) (1.1) (40.5)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares — 0.1 (0.1) — — —
Issue of share capital — 0.1 — 0.1 — 0.1
Total transactions with owners — 0.2 (71.5) (71.3) (1.1) (72.4)
a s at 1 January 2014 27.8 (1,455.8) 2,284.6 856.6 27.3 883.9
Profit — — 95.9 95.9 4.6 100.5
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of income tax
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets — — (9.9) (9.9) — (9.9)
Income tax relating to items not reclassified — — 0.5 0.5 — 0.5
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — (10.2) — (10.2) 0.6 (9.6)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — (0.3) — (0.3) — (0.3)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges — (0.2) — (0.2) — (0.2)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments — (0.2) — (0.2) — (0.2)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of income tax — (10.9) (9.4) (20.3) 0.6 (19.7)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income — (10.9) 86.5 75.6 5.2 80.8
Purchase of own shares — — (0.5) (0.5) — (0.5)
Recognition of share-based payments — — 2.7 2.7 — 2.7
Dividends paid (Note 27) — — (41.2) (41.2) (2.6) (43.8)
Total transactions with owners — — (39.0) (39.0) (2.6) (41.6)
a s at 31 December 2014 27.8 (1,466.7) 2,332.1 893.2 29.9 923.1
107
Financial Statement S 1 .  G e n er a l i n f o r m a ti on
Vesuvius plc (“Vesuvius” or “the Company”) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary and joint venture companies 
(“the Group”) is set out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 53 and its registered address is shown on page 154.
2. Basis of preparation
2. 1 Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union and, with the exception of defined benefit pension plans, certain provisions and derivative financial 
instruments, under the historical cost convention.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its “subsidiaries”). Control exists when the Company has the power to direct the relevant activities of an entity that significantly 
affect the entity’s return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities. In assessing whether control exists, potential voting 
rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included 
in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those 
detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-Group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s interest therein. Non-
controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-controlling 
interests’ share of profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income since the date of the combination. Total comprehensive 
income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
2.3  Going concern
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the 
2014 financial statements. These forecasts reflect an assessment of current and future end-market conditions and their impact on the 
Group’s future trading performance. The forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt 
facilities and show continued compliance with the Company’s financial covenants. On the basis of the exercise described above and the 
Group’s available committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for 12 months from the date of signing these accounts. Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
2.4 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in millions of pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and rounded to one 
decimal place. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 28. 1.
2.5 Disclosure of “Separately reported items”
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key 
lines which should be disclosed. It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the 
face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entity’s financial performance. In accordance with 
IAS 1, the Company has adopted a columnar presentation for its Group income statement, to separately identify Headline Performance 
results, as the Directors consider that this gives a better view of the underlying results of the ongoing business. As part of this presentation 
format, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement, within the column entitled 
“Separately reported items” , the effect of any components of financial performance for which the Directors consider separate disclosure 
would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results. In its 
adoption of this policy, the Company applies an even-handed approach to both gains and losses and aims to be both consistent and  
clear in its accounting and disclosure of such items.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such 
presentation. Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of exceptional items which occur infrequently, such as major 
restructuring activity, initial recognition and subsequent increase, decrease and amortisation of deferred tax assets, together with  
items always reported separately, such as amortisation charges relating to intangible assets, profits or losses arising on the disposal of 
continuing or discontinued operations and the taxation impact of the aforementioned exceptional items and items reported separately.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 108 2. Basis of preparation (continued)
2.6 New and revised IFRS
Following the implementation of Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments which clarified the circumstances in which financial 
instruments can be offset within financial statements, the Group has reviewed the presentational treatment of its notional cash pooling 
arrangements and consequently has made the following restatements to prior year consolidated results: cash and short-term deposits 
have increased by £8.2m from the previously reported 2013 figure £68.4m to £76.6m; overdrafts within current interest-bearing 
borrowings have increased by £8.2m from the previously reported 2013 figure £15.6m to £23.8m. This presentational disclosure change 
has no effect on cash and cash equivalents as shown in the Group statement of cash flows, or the Group’s overall financial position,  
total comprehensive income or earnings per share in either the current or prior year. See Note 28.4 for further details.
The Group also adopted a number of other new standards and amendments which became effective during the year, none of which 
had a material impact on the Group’s net cash flow, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
A number of other new and amended IFRS were issued during the year which do not become effective until after 1 January 2015 
and which have not been early adopted.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective after 1 January 2018, for the year-end 2018), replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial 
instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets, and new general hedge 
accounting requirements. It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from IAS 39.  
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective after 1 January 2017 , for the year-end 2017), establishes a comprehensive 
framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, 
including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 1 1 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. Based on a preliminary assessment 
of the adoption of IFRS 15, the Group currently does not believe there will be a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
Other new or amended standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements.
3. c ritical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Determining the carrying amount of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effect of uncertain future events. The major 
sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or 
liabilities are noted below.
3. 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value that will 
benefit the performance of the Group over future periods. T o assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least 
annually, of the carrying value of the Group’s capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets. In the assessment undertaken as at 31 December 
2014, further details of which are given in Note 18, value in use was derived from discounted three-year cash flow projections and terminal 
value based on a conservative growth rate of 2.5% in the years beyond the projection period. The projection period is, in the opinion 
of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s businesses for this purpose. Changes to the 
assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other 
intangible assets.
3.2 Employee benefits
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-retirement 
benefits to current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements 
of the costs of meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Group’s actuaries and include those 
used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans’ assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors believe 
that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used could affect the Group’s profit and financial position.
3.3 Provisions
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation and 
environmental matters. Several of the Group’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the 
ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute 
with tax authorities. Provisions are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal 
or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is 
subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty. The Directors 
use their judgement and experience to make provisions in the financial statements for an appropriate amount relating to such matters.
109
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. c ritical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.4 Taxation
(a) Current tax
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group. In assessing the  
amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of 
negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement. Any interest and penalties  
on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge. The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions. 
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to tax audits and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable 
period of time to conclude. Provisions are made for known issues based upon the Directors’ interpretation of country-specific tax law  
and their assessment of the likely outcome.
(b) Deferred tax
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a number of the Group’s 
businesses, further details of which are given in Note 1 1 .4. Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values 
at which these assets are recognised. If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over 
which the losses or timing differences might be recognised, then the value of deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group also has losses and other timing differences, analysed in Note 1 1.4, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in 
these financial statements, relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of the timing difference is not 
probable or to where the timing difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain types of profit being earned, such as 
capital profits. If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, these losses and other timing differences 
may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
4. Non-Gaa P financial measures
The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”) financial measures in addition to those 
reported in accordance with IFRS. The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing 
the underlying financial and operating performance of the Group and its divisions.
4.1 Headline
Headline performance is from continuing operations and before items reported separately on the face of the income statement.
4.2 Underlying
Underlying performance is adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in exchange rates, business acquisitions and disposals.
4.3 Return on sales
Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
4.4 Trading profit
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before separately reported items. The Directors believe that trading profit is an important 
measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
4.5 Headline profit before tax
Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Group’s share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and  
total net finance costs associated with headline performance.
4.6 Effective tax rate
The Group’s effective tax rate is calculated on the income tax costs associated with headline performance, divided by headline profit 
before tax and before the Group’s share of post-tax profit of joint ventures.
4.7 Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing headline profit before tax less associated income tax costs attributable to owners  
of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
4.8 Operating cash flow
Operating cash flow is cash generated from continuing operations before restructuring, demerger payments and additional pension 
funding contributions but after deducting capital expenditure net of asset disposals.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 110 4. Non-Gaa P financial measures (continued)
4.9 Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and 
equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions 
to Group pension plans.
4. 10 Average working capital to sales ratio
The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances to the total revenue for  
the year, using constant foreign exchange rates. Average working capital (comprising inventories, trade receivables and trade payables)  
is calculated as the average of the 12 previous month-end balances.
4. 1 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA ”)
EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges.
4. 12 Net interest
Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item separately reported.
4. 13 Interest cover
Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
4. 14 Net debt
Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
4. 15 Net debt to EBITDA
Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
4. 16 Return on net assets (“RONA ”)
RONA is calculated as trading profit plus share of post-tax profit of joint ventures, divided by average net operating assets, at constant 
foreign exchange rates (being the average over the previous 12 months of property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other 
operating receivables and payables).
4. 17 Constant rates
Figures presented at constant rates represent December 2013 numbers retranslated to December 2014 exchange rates.
5. Segment information
The segment information contained in this Note makes reference to several non-GAAP financial measures, definitions of which can be 
found in Note 4.
5. 1 Accounting policy
(a)  Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers after 
deducting rebates, discounts and value-added taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised when persuasive evidence exists, usually in the form of an executed sales agreement, that the significant risks and rewards 
of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management 
involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. A provision for anticipated returns is made based 
primarily on historical return rates. Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate elements that can be provided 
to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an extra, such as the provision of supplementary materials with equipment, revenue is 
recognised for each element as if it were an individual contractual arrangement.
(b) Research & development costs
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. Expenditure 
on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient 
resources to complete development. All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year 
in which it is incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
111
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
5. Segment information (continued)
5.2 Business segments
Operating segments for continuing operations
For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into two main business segments: Steel and Foundry. It is the Vesuvius Board which 
makes the key operating decisions in respect of these segments. The information used by the Vesuvius Board to review performance 
and determine resource allocation between the business segments is presented with the Group’s activities segmented between the two 
business segments, Steel and Foundry. Taking into account the basis on which the Group’s activities are reported to the Vesuvius Board, 
the Directors believe that these two business segments are the appropriate way to analyse the Group’s results. The principal activities of 
each of these segments are described in the Strategic report on pages 34 to 41.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers (inter-segment revenue is not material). Trading profit includes items 
directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Discontinued operations
The European Precious Metals business was held for sale as at 31 December 2012 and its results for the period up to 31 May 2013, when  
it was sold, are reported as discontinued operations in 2013.
5.3 Income statement
The operating segment results from continuing operations for 2014 and 2013 are presented below.
2014
Steel  
£m
Foundry 
£m
c ontinuing 
operations 
£m
Segment revenue 981.4 463.0 1,444.4
Segment EBITDA 121.9 59.4 181.3
Segment depreciation (25.5) (13.0) (38.5)
Segment trading profit 96.4 46.4 142.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (17.0)
Operating profit 125.8
Net finance costs (16.4)
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.4
Profit on disposal of continuing operations 0.4
Profit before tax 111.2
Return on sales margin (%) 9.8 10.0 9.9
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 28.6 24.9 53.5
2013
Steel  
£m
Foundry 
£m
Continuing 
operations 
£m
Segment revenue 1,017.5 493.0 1,510.5
Segment EBITDA 114.1 65.2 179.3
Segment depreciation (25.4) (13.9) (39.3)
Segment trading profit 88.7 51.3 140.0
Amortisation of intangible assets (17.4)
Restructuring charges (3.9)
Operating profit 118.7
Net finance costs (17.3)
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 2.5
Profit on disposal of continuing operations 0.2
Profit before tax 104.1
Return on sales margin (%) 8.7 10.4 9.3
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 28.6 18.9 47.5
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 112 5. Segment information (continued)
5.4 Geographic analysis
External revenue Non-current assets
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
USA 291.0 294.6 243.9 216.0
Germany 202.1 216.1 108.5 114.4
China 103.5 109.5 86.7 76.1
UK 78.2 79.2 143.4 155.6
Brazil 71.9 83.9 62.9 56.2
India 85.9 86.0 37.0 36.4
France 52.6 56.0 14.5 15.7
Spain 45.2 42.6 36.0 34.2
Rest of the World 514.0 542.6 300.5 323.7
c ontinuing operations 1,444.4 1,510.5 1,033.4 1,028.3
External revenue disclosed in the table above is based upon the geographical location of the operation. The Group’s customers are widely 
dispersed around the world and no single country included within Rest of the World in the table above, for either of the years presented, 
amounts to more than 10% of the total external revenue of continuing operations. Non-current assets exclude employee benefits net 
surpluses and deferred tax assets.
5.5 Products and customers
Information relating to the Group’s products and services is given in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 53. The Group is not dependent 
upon any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years presented in the tables above, accounts for more 
than 10% of the Group’s total external revenue.
6. a mounts payable to KPmG LLP and its associates
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 1.4 1.4
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Tax compliance and advisory 0.1 0.1
Total auditor’s remuneration 2.0 1.9
Total auditor’s remuneration of £2.0m in 2014, all related to continuing operations, of which £1.8m related to audit fees and £0.2m of 
non-audit fees, the latter comprising £0. 1m in respect of the interim review fee and £0. 1m for taxation advice (2013: £1.9m, including 
£1.7m of audit fees and £0.2m of non-audit fees, the latter comprising of £0. 1m in respect of the interim review fee and £0. 1m for taxation 
advice). It is the Group’s policy not to use the Group’s auditor for non-audit services other than for very limited tax services where the 
synergies between the audit services and tax services make it cost effective for the Group.
7. Restructuring charges
There were no separately reported restructuring charges for the year from continuing operations. The 2013 charge of £3.9m arose 
in connection with initiatives that included redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure of facilities, the streamlining of 
manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines. Of this total charge, £0. 1m arose in connection with the actions taken 
to downsize the Solar Crucibles operations of the Foundry division, comprising of redundancy and other cash costs of £1. 1m, net of the 
release of a reserve of £1.0m for lease costs no longer required. The net tax credit attributable to the total restructuring charges in 2013 
was £2.6m.
Cash costs of £5.8m (2013: £10.3m) (Note 13) were incurred in the year in respect of the restructuring initiatives of continuing operations 
commenced in prior years, leaving provisions made but unspent of £8.0m (Note 33) as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £12.9m), of which 
£4.4m relates to future costs in respect of leases expiring between one and eight years.
113
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
8. Employees
8. 1 Employee benefits expense
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Wages and salaries 296.9 326.3
Social security costs 45.5 48.7
Share-based payments (Note 30) 2.3 2.6
Pension costs  — defined contribution pension plans (Note 29) 9.2 10.9
 — defined benefit pension plans (Note 29) 3.8 7.1
Other post-retirement benefits (Note 29) 0.3 0.7
Total employee benefits expense 358.0 396.3
Of the total employee benefits expense of £358.0m (2013: £396.3m), £356.2m (2013: £384.8m) was charged in arriving at trading profit, 
within which £3.6m (2013: £nil) was credited within gains relating to employee benefits plans, £1.8m (2013: £1.8m) was charged within 
ordinary net finance costs, and £nil (2013: £9.7m) was charged to discontinued operations.
At constant 2014 foreign exchange rates the total employee benefits expense for 2013 is £371.3m which includes discontinued expenses 
of £10.7m.
8.2 Average number of employees
2014 
no.
2013  
no.
Steel 7,716 7,568
Foundry 3,387 3,423
Continuing operations 11,103 10,991
Discontinued operations — 505
Total average number of employees 11,103 11,496
The Group acquired ECIL Met Tec with 473 employees in October 2014. Had we acquired ECIL Met Tec on 1 January, the average 
headcount would have been 1 1,496.
8.3 Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 75 to 93.
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Short-term employee benefits 0.9 1.5
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Share-based payments 1.0 0.9
Total remuneration of key management personnel 2.2 2.7
9. Profit on disposal of continuing operations
The net profit on disposal of continuing operations in 2014 of £0.4m comprised of £0.8m profit on the sale of non-current assets in the 
USA and Czech Republic, and a £0.4m loss on the dilution of interests in an investment holding in Italy. The net profit on disposal of 
continuing operations in 2013 of £0.2m comprised £0.4m profit on the sale of a construction and installation business in Canada, together 
with a loss relating to a non-core business held for sale as at 31 December 2012. The tax charge attributable to these transactions was £nil 
(2013: £nil).
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 114 10. Net finance costs
10. 1 Accounting policy
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges is included within interest 
payable on loans and overdrafts. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
10.2 Total net finance costs
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Interest payable on borrowings
Loans, overdrafts and factoring arrangements 14.2 13.2
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.2
Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 1.8 2.6
Total interest payable on borrowings 16.1 16.0
Interest on net retirement benefits obligations 1.8 1.8
Unwinding of discounted provisions 1.1 1.3
Finance income (2.6) (1.8) 
Total net finance costs 16.4 17.3
11. Income tax
1 1. 1 Accounting policy
Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the 
extent that they relate to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the associated tax 
is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
c urrent tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively 
enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will  
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.
115
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
11. Income tax (continued)
1 1.2 Income tax costs
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
c urrent tax
Overseas taxation 31.8 31.9
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 (1.3) 
Total current tax, continuing operations 32.2 30.6
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences (25.7) (38.3) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 1.4
Total deferred tax, continuing operations (25.1) (36.9) 
Total income tax costs 7.1 (6.3) 
Total income tax costs attributable to:
c ontinuing operations  — headline performance 32.9 32.5
 — separately reported items (25.8) (38.8) 
Total income tax costs 7.1 (6.3) 
The Group’s total income tax costs relating to separately reported items are analysed in the following table:
Separately reported items
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
US deferred tax asset recognition (Note 1 1.4) 21.8 29.2 
Restructuring charges — 2.6
Amortisation of intangibles 4.0 7.0
Total tax credit on separately reported items 25.8 38.8
Tax credit in the Group statement of comprehensive income in the year amounted to £0.5m (2013: £1.6m charge), £0.5m (2013: £1.4m) 
of which related to net actuarial gains and losses on employee benefits plans.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices. Changes in any of these areas could, 
adversely or positively, impact the Group’s tax charge in the future. Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all 
expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2014, as effective tax relief may  
not be available for those losses or expenses. Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in Notes 3.4 and 1 1. 1.
1 1.3 Reconciliation of income tax costs to profit before tax
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit before tax 111.2 104.1
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 23.9 24.2
Overseas tax rate differences 6.9 4.6
Withholding taxes 3.9 3.6
Amortisation of intangibles (0.3) (2.7)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.5 0.8
US deferred tax asset not previously recognised (34.4) (29.2)
Deferred tax assets not recognised 3.9 3.8
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (0.3) (11.5)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.1
Total income tax costs 7.1 (6.3)
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 116 11. Income tax (continued)
1 1.4 Deferred tax
Interest 
£m
Other 
operating 
losses 
£m
Pension 
 costs 
£m
Intangible 
assets 
£m
Timing 
differences 
£m
Total 
£m
As at 1 January 2013 — — 3.1 (49.6) 3.7 (42.8)
Exchange adjustments — (0.3) — 1.3 (0.9) 0.1
Charge to Group statement of comprehensive income — — (1.4) — (0.2) (1.6)
Credit/(charge) to Group income statement — 2.5 — 7.0 (1.7) 7.8
Credit to Group income statement US 14.5 11.3 — — 3.4 29.2
a s at 1 January 2014 14.5 13.5 1.7 (41.3) 4.3 (7.3)
Exchange adjustments 1.7 1.0 0.1 0.9 0.4 4.1
Acquisition — — — — (1.3) (1.3)
Credit to Group statement of comprehensive income — — 0.5 — — 0.5
(Charge)/credit to Group income statement — (1.0) (1.0) 4.0 1.3 3.3
Credit /(charge) to Group income statement US 14.2 9.6 — — (2.0) 21.8
a s at 31 December 2014 30.4 23.1 1.3 (36.4) 2.7 21.1
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Non-current deferred tax assets 71.4 43.7
Non-current deferred tax liabilities (50.3) (51.0) 
Net total deferred tax liabilities 21.1 (7.3) 
Included in non-current deferred tax assets is £54.0m (2013: £29.2m) in respect of the partial recognition of temporary differences arising 
in the US. We initially recognised a deferred tax asset of £29.2m in 2013 in respect of US losses. However our confidence has increased 
regarding the future realisation of value for these losses, and at the end of 2014 we have increased the total deferred tax asset recognised 
to £54.0m. In view of its material size and nature, the tax credit arising from the recognition of this asset is presented separately from 
the tax charge on headline performance, in accordance with the principles outlined in Note 2.5 above. Subsequent increase, decrease 
and amortisation of the value of this asset would similarly be expected to be presented in this manner, as the Directors consider that the 
separate identification of deferred tax for material temporary differences would assist both in a better understanding of the financial 
performance achieved and in making projections of future results of the Group. Consequently, the credit to the Group income statement 
of £21.8m (2013: £29.2m) comprises additional recognition of deferred tax asset of £34.4m, net of amortisation of £12.6m.
Tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences of £2. 1m (2013: £7 .5m) were recognised by subsidiaries reporting a loss in 2013 
or 2014. On the basis of approved business plans of these subsidiaries, the Directors consider it probable that the tax loss carry-forwards 
and temporary differences can be offset against future taxable profits.
The total deferred tax assets not recognised as at 31 December 2014 were £259.3m (2013: £280.0m), as analysed below. In accordance 
with the accounting policy in Note 1 1. 1, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that their future 
economic benefit is not probable. In total, there was a decrease of £20.7m (2013: £56.6m) in net unrecognised deferred tax assets 
during the year.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Operating losses 117.5 126.0
Unrelieved US interest (may be carried forward indefinitely) 52.3 69.4
Capital losses available to offset future UK capital gains (may be carried forward indefinitely) 33.0 33.0
UK ACT credits (may be carried forward indefinitely) 13.1 13.1
US tax credits 2.0 4.2
Other timing differences 41.4 34.3
Total deferred tax assets not recognised 259.3 280.0
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of £140.6m (2013: £139.5m).
117
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
11. Income tax (continued)
1 1.4 Deferred tax (continued)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Losses available to set against future US taxable income, due to expire 2024 to 2031 28.7 29.6
Losses available to set against future UK taxable income (may be carried forward indefinitely) 79.8 77.6
Losses available to set against future taxable income in Rest of World (“RoW”):
Due to expire within five years 14.7 17.1
Due to expire between five and 20 years — 1.1
Carried forward indefinitely 17.4 14.1
ROW operating losses 32.1 32.3
Total net operating losses 140.6 139.5
Total net operating losses of £140.6m (2013: £139.5m) comprised unrecognised losses of £1 17 .5m (2013: £126.0m) and recognised losses 
of £23. 1m (2013: £13.5m).
The above losses available relating to the Rest of the World arise in a number of countries, each of which is not individually significant, 
reflecting the spread of the Group’s operations.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of £2.0m (2013: £4.2m) as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
US research and experimentation credits (due to expire 2018 to 2033) 1.1 1.1
US foreign tax credits (due to expire 2022 to 2024) 0.9 3.1
US tax credits 2.0 4.2
There are no temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been recognised.
From 1 April 2014, the UK corporation tax rate reduced to 21 % from 23%. Further UK corporation tax rate reductions to 20% 
from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Accordingly, the Group’s closing UK deferred tax liability has been provided 
using a tax rate of 20%. The impact of using this lower tax rate was included in 2013 and increased the exceptional tax credit relating to 
the amortisation of intangible assets from £4.5m to £7 .0m. There was no impact in 2014.
1 1.5 Income tax payable and recoverable
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Liabilities and provisions for income tax payable 51.8 45.0
Income taxes recoverable:
within one year 4.0 3.5
after more than one year 2.9 4.2
6.9 7.7
Net liability and provision for income tax payable 44.9 37.3
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 118 12. Earnings per share (“EPS”)
12. 1 Earnings for EPS
Basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations are based upon the profit attributable to owners of the parent, as reported in the Group 
income statement, of £99.5m (2013: £105.4m), being the profit for the year of £104. 1m (2013: £1 10.4m) less non-controlling interests of 
£4.6m (2013: £5.0m); basic and diluted EPS from total operations are based on the profit attributable to owners of the parent of £95.9m 
(2013: £135.3m); headline and diluted headline EPS are based upon headline profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of 
the parent of £90.3m (2013: £87 .7m). The table below reconciles these different profit measures.
c ontinuing 
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
2014 
total 
£m
Continuing 
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
2013 
total 
£m
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 99.5 (3.6) 95.9 105.4 29.9 135.3
Adjustments for separately reported items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 17.0 — 17.0 17.4 — 17.4
Restructuring charges — — — 3.9 0.1 4.0
Profit on disposal of continuing operations (0.4) — (0.4) (0.2) — (0.2) 
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations — — — — (19.3) (19.3) 
Tax relating to separately reported items (25.8) — (25.8) (38.8) — (38.8) 
Headline profit attributable to owners of the parent 90.3 (3.6) 86.7 87.7 10.7 98.4
12.2 Weighted average number of shares
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
For calculating basic and headline EPS 270.3 274.8
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.8 0.9
For calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS 271.1 275.7
For the purposes of calculating diluted and diluted headline EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares expected 
to vest, relating to the Company’s share-based payment plans. Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion 
to ordinary shares would decrease EPS, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
12.3 Per share amounts
c ontinuing 
operations 
pence
Discontinued 
operations 
pence
2014 
total 
pence
Continuing 
operations 
pence
Discontinued 
operations 
pence
2013 
total 
pence
Earnings/(loss) per share — basic 36.8 (1.3) 35.5 38.4 10.8 49.2
 — headline 33.4 32.1 31.9 35.8
 — diluted 36.7 (1.3) 35.4 38.3 10.8 49.1
 — diluted headline 33.3 32.0 31.8 35.7
119
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
13. c ash generated from operations
c ontinuing
operations 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
£m
2014
total 
£m
Continuing
operations  
£m
Discontinued
operations  
£m
2013
total 
£m
Operating profit 125.8 (3.6) 122.2 118.7 10.6 129.3
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 17.0 — 17.0 17.4 — 17.4
Restructuring charges — — — 3.9 0.1 4.0
Depreciation 38.5 — 38.5 39.3 — 39.3
EBITDa 181.3 (3.6) 177.7 179.3 10.7 190.0
Net (increase)/decrease in trade and other working capital (26.8) 3.1 (23.7) 15.8 (3.5) 12.3
Net operating outflow related to assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale — — — — (17.1) (17.1) 
Outflow related to restructuring charges (5.8) — (5.8) (10.3) — (10.3) 
Outflow related to demerger costs — — — (3.2) — (3.2) 
Additional pension funding contributions (3.2) — (3.2) (11.0) — (11.0) 
c ash generated from operations 145.5 (0.5) 145.0 170.6 (9.9) 160.7
14. c ash and cash equivalents
2014
£m
2013
as restated 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 76.9 76.6
c ash and short-term deposits 76.9 76.6
Bank overdrafts (38.4) (23.8) 
c ash and cash equivalents in the Group statement of cash flows 38.5 52.8
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component 
of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 120 15.  Reconciliation of movement in net debt
Balance as at 
1 Jan 2014
as restated 
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
adjustments
£m
Non-cash 
movements
£m
c ash flow
£m
Balance as at 
31 Dec 2014
£m
c ash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 76.6 0.9 — (0.6) 76.9
Bank overdrafts (23.8) 1.1 — (15.7) (38.4)
52.8 2.0 — (16.3) 38.5
Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts
Current (1.5) — — (0.7) (2.2)
Non-current (310.7) (5.6) — 10.5 (305.8)
(312.2) (5.6) — 9.8 (308.0)
Capitalised borrowing costs 3.0 — (1.8) — 1.2
Net debt (256.4) (3.6) (1.8) (6.5) (268.3)
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash 
and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing borrowings.
16. Property, plant and equipment
16. 1 Accounting policy
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in 
future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure 
are charged to the Group income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the 
asset is available for use and is charged to the Group income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value 
of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows:
Asset category Estimated useful life
Freehold property between ten and 50 years
Leasehold property the term of the lease
Plant and equipment  — motor vehicles and information technology equipment between one and five years
 — other between three and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each year-
end. As described in Note 18. 1, an asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to its recoverable amount if its carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with 
carrying amount and are recognised in the Group income statement.
121
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
16. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
16.2 Movement in net book value
Freehold 
property 
£m
Leasehold 
property 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Construction 
in progress 
£m
Total 
£m
c ost
As at 1 January 2013 133.4 3.6 460.7 31.7 629.4
Exchange adjustments (6.4) (0.1) (15.1) (1.6) (23.2)
Capital expenditure additions 4.5 0.2 23.3 19.5 47.5
Disposals (0.1) — (19.6) (0.3) (20.0)
Reclassifications 14.8 — 3.0 (17.8) —
a s at 1 January 2014 146.2 3.7 452.3 31.5 633.7
Exchange adjustments (2.0) — (3.0) — (5.0)
Capital expenditure additions 6.7 0.5 22.1 24.2 53.5
Acquisitions through business combinations 2.3 — 5.9 — 8.2
Disposals (1.4) (0.5) (8.4) — (10.3)
Reclassifications 5.2 — 10.6 (15.8) —
a s at 31 December 2014 157.0 3.7 479.5 39.9 680.1
a ccumulated depreciation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 2013 47.5 2.1 302.0 — 351.6
Exchange adjustments (2.0) (0.1) (9.9) — (12.0)
Depreciation charge 4.8 0.3 34.2 — 39.3
Disposals — — (19.9) — (19.9)
Reclassifications 4.2 — (4.2) — —
a s at 1 January 2014 54.5 2.3 302.2 — 359.0
Exchange adjustments (0.4) — 0.2 — (0.2)
Depreciation charge 4.8 0.3 33.4 — 38.5
Disposals (0.9) (0.5) (7.7) — (9.1)
Reclassifications (0.1) (0.1) 0.3 — 0.1
a s at 31 December 2014 57.9 2.0 328.4 — 388.3
Net book value as at 31 December 2014 99.1 1.7 151.1 39.9 291.8
Net book value as at 31 December 2013 91.7 1.4 150.1 31.5 274.7
Net book value as at 1 January 2013 85.9 1.5 158.7 31.7 277.8
The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2014, 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2013 was not material.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 122 17. Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets that have been acquired through business combinations.
17 . 1 Accounting policy
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is initially recognised as an asset at cost, measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest acquired over the net of the 
acquisition-date fair value amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain 
purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, 
with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the 
goodwill has been allocated may be impaired. On disposal of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the calculation 
of the profit or loss on disposal.
(b) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual 
or other legal rights, and their value can be measured reliably. They are initially measured at cost, which is equal to the acquisition-date fair 
value, and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation charges and accumulated impairment losses. Other intangible 
assets are subject to impairment testing when there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been incurred and are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives.
17 .2 Movement in net book value
Goodwill
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
2014
total
£m
Goodwill
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
2013 
total
£m
c ost
a s at 1 January 555.3 260.3 815.6 579.6 266.4 846.0
Exchange adjustments (5.5) (4.4) (9.9) (24.3) (6.1) (30.4)
Business combinations (Note 22) 11.6 — 11.6 — — —
a s at 31 December 561.4 255.9 817.3 555.3 260.3 815.6
a ccumulated amortisation and impairment losses
a s at 1 January — 97.9 97.9 — 82.3 82.3
Exchange adjustments — (1.5) (1.5) — (1.8) (1.8)
Amortisation charge for the year — 17.0 17.0 — 17.4 17.4
a s at 31 December — 113.4 113.4 — 97.9 97.9
Net book value as at 31 December 561.4 142.5 703.9 555.3 162.4 717.7
17 .3 Analysis of goodwill by cash-generating unit (“CGU”)
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination. For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has two CGUs: the Steel division and the 
Foundry division. These CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Steel 363.2 355.1
Foundry 198.2 200.2
Total goodwill 561.4 555.3
123
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
17. Intangible assets (continued)
17 .4 Analysis of other intangible assets
Other intangible assets arose in 2008 on the acquisition of Foseco plc and are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives. The assets acquired and their remaining useful lives are shown below.
Remaining 
useful life  
years
Net book 
value as at 
31 Dec 2014 
£m
Foseco — customer relationships (useful life: 20 years) 13.3 68.4
 — trade name (useful life: 20 years) 13.3 48.0
 — intellectual property rights (useful life: ten years) 3.3 26.1
Total 142.5
18.  Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
18. 1 Accounting policy
The Directors regularly review the performance of the business and the external business environment to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
and compared to the carrying value in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. Where it is not feasible to estimate  
the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.  
In addition, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the 
Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and the Directors carry out annual impairment testing of the 
carrying value of each CGU, to assess the need for any impairment of the carrying value of the associated goodwill and other intangible 
and tangible assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and 
(ii) its value in use. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first 
to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of 
the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. 
An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the 
estimates used to measure the asset’s recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. 
18.2 Key assumptions
The key assumptions used in determining value in use are return on sales, growth rates and discount rates. Return on sales assumptions 
are based on historical financial information, adjusted to factor in the anticipated impact of restructuring and rationalisation plans already 
announced at the balance sheet date.
The value in use calculations of the Group’s CGUs are based on three-year business plans and a terminal value at 2.5% growth rate.  
The cash flows are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates, which represent each CGU’s weighted average cost 
of capital (“WACC”). Growth rates are determined with reference to: current market conditions; external forecasts and historical trends 
for the Group’s key end-markets of Steel and Foundry; and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group 
business unit operates. A perpetuity growth rate of 2.5% (2013: 2.5%) has been applied. This is a conservative assumption given that the 
2014 underlying revenue and trading profit growth are 3.5% and 1 1.6% respectively (2013: (0.8%) and 10.9%) and the Group noted 
no reason to change it from prior year. The pre-tax discount rate is the WACC calculated for each CGU as at 31 December 2014 based 
on industry-specific beta coefficients for the industries in which the CGUs operate, risk-free rates, and equity risk premia related to the 
major countries in which the CGUs are located, selecting countries which contribute at least 60% of total CGU revenue. The pre-tax 
discount rate used for the Steel CGU was 10.3% (2013: 1 1.7%) and for the Foundry CGU was 15.0% (2013: 13.7%). The increase in 
Foundry’s pre-tax discount rate is due to the inclusion of Brazil in the weighted assumption to ensure the revenue coverage reflects the 
portfolio of Foundry business globally. Under a sensitivity analysis undertaken on the 2014 impairment testing, a 1.0% increase in each of 
the CGU discount rates and a 1.0% perpetuity growth rate still left each CGU with significant headroom of recoverable amount over its 
carrying value. A pre-tax WACC of 18% would result in an impairment of Foundry intangible assets and 17 . 1 % for Steel.
18.3 Goodwill impairment
In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2014, the Directors made use of detailed calculations of the recoverable 
amount of the Group’s CGUs as at 31 December 2014. Those calculations resulted in recoverable amounts significantly higher than the 
carrying values of each of the Group’s CGUs and consequently no impairment charges were recognised.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 124 19. Trade and other receivables
19. 1 Accounting policy
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method, less impairment losses.
19.2 Analysis of trade and other receivables
2014 2013
Gross 
£m
Impairment 
£m
Net 
£m
Gross 
£m
Impairment 
£m
Net 
£m
Trade receivables — current 212.5 (0.8) 211.7 197.0 (1.3) 195.7
 — one to 30 days past due 48.7 (0.7) 48.0 44.0 (0.6) 43.4
 — 31 to 60 days past due 14.7 (0.2) 14.5 17.3 (0.1) 17.2
 — 61 to 90 days past due 7.1 (0.2) 6.9 8.3 (0.3) 8.0
 — over 90 days past due 30.5 (23.5) 7.0 30.5 (21.5) 9.0
Trade receivables 313.5 (25.4) 288.1 297.1 (23.8) 273.3
Other receivables 19.9 17.3
Prepayments and accrued income 26.1 23.1
Total trade and other receivables 334.1 313.7
All of the Group’s operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the customers with whom 
they do business. Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference 
between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered. Evidence of impairment may include such 
factors as the customer being in breach of contract, or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings. Impairment provisions 
are assessed on an individual customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances, based upon 
historical loss experience. Historical experience has shown that the Group’s trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are 
sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
Under its non-recourse factoring arrangements, the Group sells trade receivables balances to a third-party factoring company in 
exchange for a cash payment from the factoring company, net of fees. All the risks and rewards of the trade receivables subject to these 
arrangements are transferred to the factoring company and, accordingly, the trade receivables are derecognised in the Group balance 
sheet. Such arrangements are used from time to time by the Group to manage the recovery of cash from its trade receivables. As at  
31 December 2014, the Group balance sheet included £5.9m (2013: £1 1.9m) of cash that would otherwise have been reported as  
trade receivables if these arrangements were not in place. The movement since the prior year of £6.0m includes £4.8m in respect of  
the retirement of a debt factoring programme in Germany. Factoring fees incurred during the year ended 31 December 2014, which  
are written off to the Group income statement within ordinary finance costs, amounted to £0.6m (2013: £0.4m).
19.3 Movements on impairment provisions
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
a s at 1 January 23.8 28.0
Charge for the year 3.0 4.3
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (1.4) (8.5) 
a s at 31 December 25.4 23.8
Write-offs shown in the table above are charged or credited as appropriate within administration, selling and distribution costs 
or discontinued activities in the Group income statement. 
125
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
19. Trade and other receivables (continued)
19.3 Movements on impairment provisions (continued)
Of the total provision for impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2014 of £25.4m (2013: £23.8m) shown in the table above, 
£24. 1m (2013: £22.6m) related to balances that were impaired on an individual basis. The ageing analysis of these individually impaired 
balances is shown in the table below.
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
a geing analysis of individually impaired trade receivable balances
Current 0.5 0.8
One to 30 days past due 0.4 0.3
31 to 60 days past due 0.1 0.1
61 to 90 days past due 0.1 0.3
Over 90 days past due 23.0 21.1
Total individually impaired trade receivable balances 24.1 22.6
Due to the large number of customers with which the Group transacts its business, none of which represent a significant proportion 
of the total outstanding trade receivables balance and, considering the level of trade receivable provisions held, the Group is not exposed 
to any significant concentration of credit risk. There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other 
receivable balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group balance sheet.
20. Inventories
20. 1 Accounting policy
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using the first in, first out method) and net realisable value. Cost comprises expenditure incurred 
in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location 
and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels. Net realisable value represents 
the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. The amount 
of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
20.2 Analysis of inventories
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Raw materials 72.5 61.2
Work-in-progress 16.5 14.0
Finished goods 102.9 106.7
Total inventories 191.9 181.9
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales of continuing operations in the income statement during 
the year was £670.4m (2013: £655.7m). An expense of £nil (2013: £43.8m) was included within discontinued operations.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 126 21. Derivative financial instruments
21. 1 Accounting policy
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, and interest rate swaps 
to manage the effects of its exposure to foreign exchange risk, and interest rate risk. The way in which derivatives are used to manage 
the Group’s financial risk is detailed in Note 28.
Derivatives are measured at fair value. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated using market prices at the balance 
sheet date. The fair value of an interest rate swap is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at 
the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparty.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument for hedge accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Strict conditions have to be satisfied in order 
to qualify for hedge accounting, including a determination both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis that the hedge is 
expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The change 
in fair value of a derivative that is not designated as a hedging instrument for hedge accounting purposes is recognised immediately in 
the Group income statement. No derivatives are held for speculative purposes.
Cash flow hedges
The effective part of any gain or loss on a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit, 
or within finance costs in the case of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. When the transaction that was being hedged 
is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised 
in the income statement in the same period.
Fair value hedges
The change in fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recognised within trading profit in the Group income 
statement. The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in its fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk and 
this adjustment is recognised within trading profit in the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges
The effective part of any gain or loss on a derivative that is designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised 
in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity, and is subsequently recognised in the Group income 
statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised 
immediately within trading profit in the Group income statement.
21.2 Analysis of derivative financial instruments
2014 2013
a ssets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Assets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Cash flow hedges — — 0.3 — 
Other derivatives — not designated for hedge accounting purposes — 0.2 — 0.2 
Total derivative financial instruments — 0.2 0.3 0.2 
All of the fair values shown in the table above are classified under IFRS 13 as Level 2 measurements which have been calculated using 
quoted prices from active markets, where similar contracts are traded and the quotes reflect actual transactions in similar instruments.  
All of the derivative assets and liabilities reported in the table above will mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
127
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. a cquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired
During the year, the Group acquired 100% ownership interests in ECIL Met Tec and Process Metrix subsidiaries providing 
technical services.
c onsideration transferred
2014 
£m
Cash 24.6
Deferred 3.8
Contingent 1.2
Total consideration transferred 29.6
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
Property, plant and equipment 8.2
Inventories 6.7
Trade and other receivables 6.1
Cash 1.2
Trade and other payables (2.9)
Taxation (1.3)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 18.0
Goodwill 11.6
The £23.4m disclosed in the Group statement of cash flows in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, comprised 
£24.6m paid for current year acquisitions, less £1.2m of cash acquired with current year acquisitions. For Process Metrix, US$7 .7m was 
paid on completion of the acquisition with the remaining US$4.0m deferred for a period of up to five years (US$2.0m in equal annual 
instalments and US$2.0m on the achievement of certain specified performance-related milestones). For ECIL Met Tec, BRL79m was paid 
on completion; a further BRL5m is payable upon the completion of the subdivision of property and subsequent ownership transfer to 
Vesuvius, with the remaining BRL5m payable after six years.
These acquisitions contributed £3.6m of revenue, and £0.5m of trading profit to the Group’s results. Management estimate that if the 
acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2014, then the contribution would have been £19.2m of revenue, and £3. 1m of trading profit, 
using similar fair value adjustments which arose at the acquisition dates. The Group incurred acquisition related costs of £0.4m relating  
to external legal fees and due diligence costs which have been included within administration costs in the Group income statement.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 128 23. Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations in 2014 comprise of a release of £1. 1m of provision relating to a VAT case which was resolved in Vesuvius’ favour 
and a charge of £4.7m in relation to settlement of actions brought by MacDermid (incorporated in the United States) against Vesuvius and 
Alent plc that arose out of corporate activity between the parties in 2006. Further details of the MacDermid claims can be found in Note 
33. Discontinued operations in 2013 comprise the post-tax results of the European Precious Metals Processing business for the period up 
to 31 May 2013 when it was sold, together with the profit arising on its disposal. The European Precious Metals Processing business was 
sold to Heimerle + Meule for consideration received of €56.8m plus €8.2m for working capital delivered. Included in the profit on disposal 
is a credit of £6.2m for recycled foreign exchange differences which had previously been taken directly to reserves in the Group accounts 
relating to the businesses sold. The profit before tax of £10.6m in 2013 includes the release of £10.2m of a provision relating to a VAT case 
which was resolved in Vesuvius’ favour.
23. 1 Results of discontinued operations
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Revenue — 65.0
Expenses (3.6) (54.4) 
Profit before tax (3.6) 10.6
Income tax costs — — 
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations — 19.3
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (3.6) 29.9
Earnings per share — pence
Basic (1.3) 10.8
Diluted (1.3) 10.8
23.2 Cash flows from discontinued operations
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Net cash outflow from:
— operating activities (0.5) (9.9)
Net cash outflow for the year (0.5) (9.9)
24. Issued share capital
24. 1 Accounting policy
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
24.2 Analysis of issued share capital
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2014 was 278.5m shares of £0. 10 each, of this, 7 .3 million shares 
were held in Treasury and 0.7 million were held by the Cookson Group ESOP . Further information relating to the Company’s share capital 
is given in Note 7 attached to the Company’s financial statements.
129
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25. Retained earnings
Reserve 
for own 
shares 
£m
Share 
option 
reserve 
£m
Other 
retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
retained 
earnings 
£m
As at 1 January 2013 (5.2) 5.5 2,211.9 2,212.2
Profit for the year — — 135.3 135.3
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets — — 10.2 10.2
Purchase of own shares (34.1) — — (34.1)
Disposal of own shares 3.9 — (3.9) —
Recognition of share-based payments — 2.1 — 2.1
Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options — (4.0) 4.0 —
Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income — — (1.6) (1.6)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares — — (0.1) (0.1)
Dividends paid (Note 27) — — (39.4) (39.4)
a s at 1 January 2014 (35.4) 3.6 2,316.4 2,284.6
Profit for the year — — 95.9 95.9
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets — — (9.9) (9.9)
Purchase of own shares (0.5) — — (0.5)
Disposal of own shares 2.3 — (2.3) —
Recognition of share-based payments — 2.7 — 2.7
Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options — (2.3) 2.3 —
Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income — — 0.5 0.5
Dividends paid (Note 27) — — (41.2) (41.2)
a s at 31 December 2014 (33.6) 4.0 2,361.7 2,332.1
During the year to 31 December 2014, the Company repurchased 101,847 of its own shares for £0.5m via Cookson Investments (Jersey) 
Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP .
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 130 26. Other reserves
Other 
reserves 
£m
Translation 
reserve  
£m
Total other 
reserves  
£m
As at 1 January 2013 (1,499.6) 100.6 (1,399.0)
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — (51.6) (51.6)
Reclassification of exchange differences on disposal of foreign operations — (6.2) (6.2)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — 0.3 0.3
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.4 — 0.4
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.1 — 0.1
Redemption of redeemable preference shares 0.1 — 0.1
Issue of share capital 0.1 — 0.1
a s at 1 January 2014 (1,498.9) 43.1 (1,455.8)
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations — (10.2) (10.2)
Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges — (0.3) (0.3)
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.2) — (0.2)
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments (0.2) — (0.2)
a s at 31 December 2014 (1,499.3) 32.6 (1,466.7)
Within Other reserves as at 31 December 2014 is £1,499.0m (2013: £1,499.0m) arising from the demerger of Cookson Group plc, being 
the excess of the Vesuvius plc share capital of £1,777 .9m over the total share capital and share premium of Cookson Group plc as at 
14 December 2012 of £278.9m.
The translation reserve in the table above comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent. These 
exchange differences arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial 
instruments that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations. In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable 
to the owners of the parent, the Group statement of comprehensive income includes foreign exchange differences attributable 
to non-controlling interests.
On 1 1 December 2013, Vesuvius plc redeemed the 50,000 outstanding redeemable preference shares with a nominal value of £1 each  
for £50,000. The consideration was satisfied by the cancellation of the undertaking to pay given by the holder of the preference shares 
at the time of issue.
27. Dividends
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of £27 .7m (2012: £26.4m), equivalent to 10.25 pence (2012: 9.5 pence)  
per ordinary share, was paid in May 2014 (June 2013) and an interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £13.5m  
(2013: £13.0m), equivalent to 5.00 pence (2013: 4.75 pence) per ordinary share, was paid in September 2014 (October 2013).
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £30. 1m, equivalent to 1 1. 125 pence per ordinary share, is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 10 April 2015.
131
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Financial risk management
28. 1 Accounting policy
(a) Non-derivative financial instruments
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition they are 
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
(b) Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial 
position of each entity are translated into pound sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i)   Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising 
on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Group income statement
(ii)  Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated
Translation from functional currency to presentational currency
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency (pound sterling), its results and 
financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i)  Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date
(ii)  Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such average rates does 
not approximate the exchange rate at the date of a specific transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity 
and are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of
Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are initially 
recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal 
of the net investment.
28.2 Financial risk factors
The Group’s treasury department, acting in accordance with policies approved by the Board, is principally responsible for managing the 
financial risks faced by the Group. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most significant of which are market 
risk and liquidity risk.
(a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that either the fair values or the cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments may fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. The Group is principally exposed to market risk through fluctuations in exchange rates (“currency risk”) and interest rates 
(“interest rate risk”).
Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its borrowings and financial assets (being cash and short-term deposits) that are denominated in 
currencies other than pound sterling. The Group’s general policy is proportionally to match the currency profile of its core borrowings with 
the currency profile of its earnings and net assets. This is achieved, where necessary, by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts 
(“FX swaps”). The currency profile of the Group’s borrowings and financial assets, reflecting the effect of the FX swaps, is shown in the 
table overleaf.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 132 28. Financial risk management (continued)
28.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
(a) Market risk (continued)
2014 2013 as restated
Borrowings 
before 
FX swaps 
£m
FX  
swaps 
£m
Borrowings 
after 
FX swaps
£m
Financial 
assets  
£m
Net  
debt 
£m
Borrowings 
before 
FX swaps 
£m
FX  
swaps  
£m
Borrowings 
after 
FX swaps
£m
Financial 
assets  
£m
Net  
debt 
£m
Sterling 17.1 91.8 108.9 (7.6) 101.3 28.6 86.4 115.0 (3.3) 111.7
United States dollar 212.0 (91.8) 120.2 (16.3) 103.9 193.9 (86.4) 107.5 (1.6) 105.9
Euro 108.4 — 108.4 (9.5) 98.9 105.6 — 105.6 (10.5) 95.1
Chinese renminbi — — — (7.4) (7.4) — — — (18.6) (18.6) 
Other 8.9 — 8.9 (36.1) (27.2) 7.9 — 7.9 (42.6) (34.7) 
Capitalised borrowing 
costs
(1.2) — (1.2) — (1.2) (3.0) — (3.0) — (3.0) 
a s at 31 December 345.2 — 345.2 (76.9) 268.3 333.0 — 333.0 (76.6) 256.4
Based upon the currency profile shown in the table above, while not impacting reported profit, the change in net debt arising from a 10% 
strengthening of sterling would increase reported equity by £23.6m (2013: £21.3m as restated) and a corresponding 10% weakening of 
sterling would reduce equity by £28.9m (2013: £26.0m as restated).
The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional 
currency and which could give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Renminbi
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Functional currency
Sterling — 2.1 1.1 — 1.2 4.4
United States dollar — — 0.4 — (2.1) (1.7)
Euro 0.2 (0.9) — — 0.1 (0.6)
Chinese renminbi (0.5) 3.7 (1.5) — (0.1) 1.6
Other (0.7) 8.7 9.7 0.1 5.7 23.5
a s at 31 December 2014 (1.0) 13.6 9.7 0.1 4.8 27.2
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling 
£m
US dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Renminbi
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
Functional currency
Sterling — 6.2 (4.0) (1.3) 0.9 1.8
United States dollar — — 2.9 — (1.1) 1.8
Euro (0.1) 2.1 — — 0.1 2.1
Chinese renminbi (0.3) 3.3 (1.3) — (0.1) 1.6
Other (0.3) 3.3 9.8 2.0 6.5 21.3
As at 31 December 2013 (0.7) 14.9 7.4 0.7 6.3 28.6
133
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Financial risk management (continued)
28.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
(a) Market risk (continued)
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk principally arises in relation to its borrowings. Where borrowings are held at floating rates of interest, 
fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to variability in the cash flows associated with its interest payments and where borrowings 
are held at fixed rates of interest, fluctuations in interest rates expose the Group to changes in the fair value of its borrowings. The Group’s 
policy is to maintain a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings, within certain parameters agreed from time to time by the Board, in order 
to optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had $310m and €30m (£222.4m in total) of US Private Placement Loan Notes outstanding, which 
carry a fixed rate of interest, representing two-thirds of the Group’s total borrowings outstanding at that date. The interest rate profile 
of the Group’s borrowings and net debt is detailed in the tables below.
Financial liabilities  
(gross borrowings)
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating  
rate 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial 
assets 
£m
Net  
debt 
£m
Sterling — 17.1 17.1 (7.6) 9.5
US dollar 199.1 12.9 212.0 (16.3) 195.7
Euro 23.3 85.1 108.4 (9.5) 98.9
Chinese renminbi — — — (7.4) (7.4)
Other — 8.9 8.9 (36.1) (27.2)
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.2) — (1.2) — (1.2)
a s at 31 December 2014 221.2 124.0 345.2 (76.9) 268.3
Financial liabilities  
(gross borrowings) As restated
Fixed  
rate 
£m
Floating  
rate 
£m
Total 
£m
Financial 
assets 
£m
Net  
debt 
£m
Sterling — 28.6 28.6 (3.3) 25.3
US dollar 187.2 6.7 193.9 (1.6) 192.3
Euro 24.9 80.7 105.6 (10.5) 95.1
Chinese renminbi — — — (18.6) (18.6)
Other — 7.9 7.9 (42.6) (34.7)
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.5) (1.5) (3.0) — (3.0)
As at 31 December 2013 210.6 122.4 333.0 (76.6) 256.4
The floating rate financial liabilities shown in the tables above bear interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, 
plus a margin. The fixed rate financial liabilities of £221.2m (2013: £210.6m) have a weighted average interest rate of 4.6% (2013: 4.6%) 
and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 6.3 years (2013: 7 .3 years). The financial assets attract floating rate interest 
at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 134 28. Financial risk management (continued)
28.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
(a) Market risk (continued)
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities shown in the tables above, a 1 % increase in market 
interest rates would increase both the net finance costs charged in the Group income statement and the net interest paid in the Group 
statement of cash flows by £0.5m (2013: £0.5m) and a 1 % reduction in market interest rates would decrease both the net finance costs 
charged in the Group income statement and the net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows by £0.5m (2013: £0.5m). Similarly, 
a 1 % increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease of £14. 1m (2013: £12.6m) in the fair value of the Group’s net debt and 
a 1 % decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase of £1 1.6m (2013: £13.6m) in the fair value of the Group’s net debt.
(b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might have difficulties in meeting its financial obligations. The Group manages this risk by ensuring 
that it maintains sufficient levels of committed borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents to ensure that it can meet its operational 
cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities, while at all times operating within its financial covenants. The level of 
operational headroom provided by the Group’s committed borrowing facilities is reviewed at least annually as part of the Group’s three-
year planning process. Where this process indicates a need for additional finance, this is normally addressed 12 to 18 months in advance 
by means of either additional committed bank facilities or raising finance in the capital markets.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of £647 .4m (2013: £637 . 1m), of which £343.5m (2013: £328.6m) 
were undrawn. These undrawn facilities are due to expire in April 2016. The Group’s borrowing requirements are met by US Private 
Placement Loan Notes (“USPP”) and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility of £425m (2013: £425m). The USPP facility  
was fully drawn as at 31 December 2014 and amounted to £222.4m ($310m and €30m), of which $1 10m is repayable in 2017 , $140m 
in 2020, €15m in 2021, $30m in 2023, €15m in 2025 and $30m in 2028. The syndicated bank facility is repayable in April 2016.
The maturity analysis of the Group’s gross borrowings is shown in the tables below.
Non-current Current Total
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
as restated 
£m
2014
£m
2013
as restated 
£m
Loans and overdrafts 303.9 308.7 39.1 23.9 343.0 332.6
Obligations under finance leases 2.0 2.0 1.4 1.4 3.4 3.4
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.0) (1.2) (0.2) (1.8) (1.2) (3.0) 
Total interest-bearing borrowings 304.9 309.5 40.3 23.5 345.2 333.0
2014
£m
2013
as restated 
£m
Interest-bearing borrowings repayable
On demand or within one year 40.5 25.3
In the second year 82.7 1.1
In the third year 71.3 97.1
In the fourth year 0.3 66.7
In the fifth year — —
After five years 151.6 145.8
Capitalised borrowing costs (1.2) (3.0)
Total interest-bearing borrowings 345.2 333.0
Capitalised borrowing costs shown in the tables above, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial 
statements, amounted to £1.2m as at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: £3.0m), of which £1.2m (2013: £1.5m) related to the 
USPP and £nil (2013: £1.5m) related to the syndicated bank facility.
135
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Financial risk management (continued)
28.3 Capital management
The Company considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity and net debt. It monitors its capital using a number of key 
performance indicators, including free cash flow, average working capital to sales ratios, net debt to EBITDA ratios and RONA (Note 4). 
The Group’s objectives when managing its capital are:
•  To ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns and ensure that the Group operates within 
the financial covenants contained within its debt facilities
•  To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future returns 
to investors
•  To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events
•  To maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Group’s equity and net debt
The Group operated comfortably within the requirements of its debt covenants throughout the year and has substantial liquidity 
headroom within its committed debt facilities. Details of the Group’s covenant compliance and committed debt facilities can be found 
in the Strategic report on page 29.
28.4 Cash pooling arrangements
The Group enters into notional cash pooling arrangements as part of its ongoing treasury management activities. Certain cash pooling 
arrangements do meet the criteria for offsetting as clarified in Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments, as regards a legally 
enforceable right of set off both in the ordinary course of business and in the event of default. The following tables set out the amounts of 
recognised financial assets and liabilities shown as cash and cash borrowings and those amounts which are subject to these agreements.
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial 
assets/
liabilities 
£m
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial 
assets/
liabilities 
offset in the 
statement 
of financial 
position 
£m
Net amounts 
of financial 
assets/
liabilities
presented in 
the statement 
of financial 
position
£m
Related 
amounts 
of financial 
assets/ 
liabilities not 
offset in the 
statements 
of financial 
position
£m
Net  
amount 
£m
Financial assets/liabilities
Cash deposits 145.9 (69.0) 76.9 (20.2) 56.7
Cash borrowings (107.4) 69.0 (38.4) 20.2 (18.2)
a s at 31 December 2014 38.5 — 38.5 — 38.5
Financial assets/liabilities
Cash deposits 142.2 (65.6) 76.6 (8.2) 68.4
Cash borrowings (89.4) 65.6 (23.8) 8.2 (15.6)
As at 31 December 2013 52.8 — 52.8 — 52.8
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 136 29. Employee benefits
29. 1 Accounting policy
The net surplus or net liability recognised in the Group balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on 
high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Any asset recognised 
in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the asset ceiling, where this is the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds or reductions in future contributions in respect of the plans.
The expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised in the Group income statement as shown in Note 29.8. Actuarial gains 
and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans are reported within the Group statement of comprehensive income; and gains 
and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the Group income statement in the same line as the item that gave 
rise to the settlement or curtailment or, if material, separately reported as a component of operating profit.
29.2 Group post-retirement plans
The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined benefit and defined contribution type, and 
accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19.
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US, the benefits of which are based upon the final pensionable 
salaries of plan members. The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds. The trustees are 
required to act in the best interests of the plans’ beneficiaries. The principal risks faced by these plans comprise: (i) the risk that the value 
of the plan assets is not sufficient to meet all plan liabilities as they fall due; (ii) the risk that plan beneficiaries live longer than envisaged, 
causing liabilities to exceed the available plan assets; and (iii) the risk that the market-based factors used to value plan liabilities change 
materially adversely to increase plan liabilities over the value of available plan assets. The Group also has defined benefit pension plans 
in other territories but, with the exception of those in Germany, these are not individually material in relation to the Group as a whole.
(a) Defined benefit pension plans – UK
The Group’s main defined benefit pension plan in the UK (“the UK Plan”) is closed to new members and to future benefit accrual.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the UK Plan Trustee and the last 
full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2012. At that date, the market value of plan assets was £501.9m and this represented a 
funding level of 102% of the accrued plan benefits at the time of £490.4m. Calculated on a “buyout” basis (using an estimation of the 
cost of buying out the UK Plan benefits with an insurance company), the liabilities at that date were £610. 1m, representing a funding level 
of 82%. Under the rules of the UK Plan, the Trustee has the power to set the funding contributions, having consulted with the Company. 
Under a schedule of contributions agreed by the Company and Trustee, the Company made “top-up” payments of £7 .0m per annum 
up to July 2013, after which they ceased as a result of the funding surplus evidenced by the 2012 funding valuation. The level of “top-up” 
payments will be reviewed based on the UK Plan’s next triennial valuation as at 31 December 2015, which should be available in mid-2016.
Notwithstanding the latest funding valuation surplus, the Company has agreed to make voluntary contributions of £2.0m per annum at 
least until the next valuation date.
In July 2012, the UK Plan Trustee entered into a pension insurance buy-in agreement with Pension Insurance Corporation (“PIC”), whereby 
the UK Plan Trustee paid an insurance premium of £318.8m to PIC to insure a significant portion of the UK Plan’s liabilities. In December 
2012, the PIC buy-in agreement was extended, under which the UK Plan Trustee agrees to transfer to PIC all new pensioner liabilities 
arising from July 2012 to December 2015 (limited to £30m) in exchange for a premium payment from the assets of the UK Plan based 
on the pricing terms of the original buy-in agreement, but reflecting changes in market conditions and differences in the duration of the 
liabilities transferred. As part of this extension to the buy-in agreement, in May 2014 the UK Plan Trustee paid an additional £12.4m of 
insurance premium to PIC from the assets of the UK plan to cover new retirees between inception and 31 December 2013. Under this 
arrangement, the value of the PIC insurance contract matches the value of the liabilities because the inflation, interest rate, investment 
and longevity risk for Vesuvius in respect of these liabilities are eliminated. As at end December 2014, the IAS 19 valuation of the PIC 
insurance contract value associated with the bought-in liabilities was £281.3m. The IAS 19 valuation of the pension liabilities uses a 
higher discount rate than that used for funding valuation purposes and hence generates a lower value for the bought-in liabilities which 
implies a lower accounting valuation of the PIC insurance contract compared to the actual premium paid to PIC. Consequently the 
reduction in asset portfolio valuation is reported in the Group statement of comprehensive income, not the income statement based 
on IAS 19 requirements.
The value of the UK Plan liabilities increased to £506.3m (2013: £458. 1m). The increase in the liabilities is driven mainly by the change in 
financial assumptions which saw a decrease in discount rates to 3.5% in 2014 (2013: 4.4%) while being partially offset by the decrease 
in long-term inflation expectations in UK. The UK Plan assets increased to £555. 1m (2013: £485.5m) mainly driven by the return on plan 
assets excluding interest income of £66.0m. 
137
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.2 Group post-retirement plans (continued)
(b) Defined benefit pension plans – US
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans in the US, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed 
benefit. The Group’s principal US defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members and also to future benefit accrual for existing 
members. Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried 
out as at 31 December 2013. At that date the market value of the plan assets was £68. 1m, representing a funding level of 75% of funded 
accrued plan benefits at that date (using the projected unit method of valuation) of £91.4m. Funding levels for the Group’s US defined 
benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by 
US Government regulations. The value of US plan liabilities increased to £1 1 1.8m (2013: £9.4m) mainly driven by reduction in discount 
rates to 3.7% (2013: 4.5%) and increased life expectancy assumptions.
(c) Defined benefit pension plans – Germany
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension arrangements in Germany which are unfunded, as is common practice in that 
country. The net liability of the German plans at 31 December 2014 was £39.9m.
(d) Defined contribution pension plans
The total expense for the Group’s defined contribution plans in the Group income statement amounted to £9.2m (2013: £10.9m 
continuing operations) and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
(e) Multi-employer plans
Due to collective agreements, Vesuvius in the USA participates together with other enterprises in union run multi-employer pension 
plans for temporary workers hired on sites. Some of these plans are underfunded and all participating employers are ultimately liable for 
any deficit. If a participating employer stops contributing to a plan it is required to make a withdrawal payment to the plan to cover its 
share of the total deficit in the plan. No reliable basis exists for allocation of the plans’ obligations and plan assets to individual employer 
participants. Deficits in the plans may necessitate increased contributions in the future. These are currently accounted for as defined 
contribution plans. In 2014 Vesuvius contributed £1.7m (2013: £1.7m) to these plans.
29.3 Post-retirement liability valuation
The main assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans, as detailed below, 
are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
(a) Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Group’s UK, US and German defined benefit pension liabilities are 
summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
For the UK Plan, the assumptions used have been derived from the Self-Administered Pension Schemes (“SAPS”) All table, with future 
longevity improvements in line with the “core” mortality improvement tables published in 2013 by the Continuous Mortality Investigation 
(“CMI”), with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum. For the Group’s US plans, the assumptions used have been based on 
the standard RP-2014 fully generational tables with projection scale BB, and the MP-2014 mortality improvement scale. The Group’s major 
plans in Germany have been valued using the Heubeck-Richttafein 2005G mortality tables.
Life expectancy of pension plan members
2014 2013
UK  
years
US 
years
Germany 
years
UK  
years
US 
years
Germany 
years
Age to which current pensioners are expected to live — Men 87.6 86.6 84.9 87.5 85.1 84.7
— Women 89.9 88.8 88.9 89.8 87.3 88.8
Age to which future pensioners are expected to live — Men 89.0 88.3 87.5 88.9 87.2 87.4
— Women 92.2 90.5 91.5 92.1 89.2 91.3
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 138 29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.3 Post-retirement liability valuation (continued)
(b) Other main actuarial valuation assumptions
2014 2013
UK  
% p.a.
US 
% p.a.
Germany 
% p.a.
UK  
% p.a.
US 
% p.a.
Germany 
% p.a.
Discount rate 3.50 3.70 2.20 4.40 4.50 3.75
Price inflation — using RPI for UK 3.40 2.25 1.75 3.60 2.50 2.00
— using CPI for UK 2.40 n/a n/a 2.60 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n/a n/a 2.50 n/a n/a 2.75
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.10 n/a 1.60 3.30 n/a 1.90
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the UK Plan for IAS 19 accounting purposes is required to be determined by reference 
to market yields on high quality corporate bonds. The UK discount rate in the above table is based on the Aon Hewitt AA-rated corporate 
bond yield in conjunction with the most recent projected cash flow data relating to the UK Plan liabilities; the US discount rate is based 
on the Citigroup pension discount curve; and the Germany discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over ten-year euro corporates 
AA index.
The assumptions for UK price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government 
bonds and index-linked bonds, except for CPI, for which no appropriate bonds exist, which is assumed to be 1.0 point lower than 
RPI-based inflation.
(c) Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in significant IAS 19 actuarial assumptions
The following table analyses, for the Group’s main UK, US and Germany pension plans, the theoretical estimated impact on plan 
liabilities resulting from changes to the most significant actuarial assumptions used for IAS 19 valuation purposes, whilst holding all other 
assumptions constant.
Following the agreement of buy-in agreements for the UK plan pensioner liabilities in 2012, as noted above, and the fact that US pensions 
are not inflation linked, the rate of increase in pensionable salaries and of pensions in payment is not significant to the valuation of the 
Group’s overall pension liabilities.
As stated above, during 2012 the UK Plan entered into pension insurance buy-in agreements which eliminate the inflation, interest rate, 
investment and longevity risk in respect of the pensioner liabilities covered by the agreements. Therefore, for the liabilities so covered, 
which represent some 51 % of the total liabilities of the UK Plan, any changes in the valuation assumptions which impact the value of  
those liabilities, also impact on the associated annuity assets in an equal and opposite way, thereby fully mitigating the valuation risk.  
This is also reflected in the following table.
Assumption Change in assumption
Impact on plan liabilities
UK US Germany
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0. 1 %
— impact on plan liabilities Decrease/increase by £8. 1m Decrease/increase by £1.3m Decrease/increase by £0.8m
— impact on plan assets Decrease/increase by £3.2m n/a n/a
Price inflation Increase/decrease by 0. 1 %
— impact on plan liabilities Increase/decrease by £5.5m n/a Increase/decrease by £0.2m
— impact on plan assets Increase/decrease by £2.2m n/a n/a
Mortality Increase by one year
— impact on plan liabilities Increase by £20.6m Increase by £3.4m Increase by £1.3m
— impact on plan assets Increase by £12.7m n/a n/a
139
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.4 Defined benefit obligation
The liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans for IAS 19 accounting purposes are measured 
by discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method, in which the 
calculation of plan liabilities makes allowance, where appropriate, for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
The average duration of the obligations to which the liabilities of the Group’s principal pension plans relate is 19 years for the UK,  
19 years for Germany and 12 years for the US.
Defined benefit pension plans Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
UK 
£m
US 
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
Present value as at 1 January 2014 458.1 91.4 32.6 38.3 620.4 8.1 628.5
Exchange differences — 6.6 (2.5) (1.6) 2.5 0.1 2.6
Current service cost — 0.4 0.9 3.3 4.6 0.1 4.7
Interest cost 19.7 4.1 1.2 1.5 26.5 0.2 26.7
Settlements — — — (14.1) (14.1) — (14.1)
Transfer — — — 3.0 3.0 (3.0) —
Remeasurement of liabilities:
— demographic changes — 5.4 — 0.1 5.5 — 5.5
— financial assumptions 52.0 9.1 9.0 8.1 78.2 0.2 78.4
— experience (gains)/losses (4.8) 0.3 (0.1) 6.7 2.1 0.7 2.8
Contributions from members — — — 0.1 0.1 — 0.1
Benefits paid (18.7) (5.5) (1.2) (4.7) (30.1) (1.0) (31.1)
Present value as at 31 December 2014 506.3 111.8 39.9 40.7 698.7 5.4 704.1
Defined benefit pension plans Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
UK 
£m
US 
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
Present value as at 1 January 2013 446.3 104.6 33.0 40.3 624.2 7.3 631.5
Exchange differences — (1.3) 0.7 (0.5) (1.1) (0.2) (1.3)
Current service cost — 0.5 1.1 2.4 4.0 0.5 4.5
Interest cost 19.0 4.0 1.1 1.3 25.4 0.2 25.6
Transfer — — — (1.9) (1.9) 1.9 —
Remeasurement of liabilities:
— demographic changes (0.2) 0.2 — — — — —
— financial assumptions 16.8 (8.6) (2.5) (2.0) 3.7 (0.2) 3.5
— experience (gains)/losses (3.7) (2.1) 0.4 1.0 (4.4) — (4.4)
Contributions from members — — — 0.1 0.1 — 0.1
Benefits paid (20.1) (5.9) (1.2) (2.4) (29.6) (1.4) (31.0)
Present value as at 31 December 2013 458.1 91.4 32.6 38.3 620.4 8.1 628.5
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 140 29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.5 Fair value of plan assets
2014 2013
UK 
£m
US 
£m
ROW 
£m
Total 
£m
UK 
£m
US 
£m
ROW 
£m
Total 
£m
a s at 1 January 485.5 68.1 27.0 580.6 468.4 69.4 24.9 562.7
Exchange differences — 4.5 (0.6) 3.9 — (1.3) (0.5) (1.8) 
Return on plan assets 20.9 3.0 1.0 24.9 20.2 2.7 0.9 23.8
Settlements — — (10.5) (10.5) — — — — 
Remeasurement of assets 66.0 4.4 6.4 76.8 10.2 (1.9) 1.0 9.3
Contributions from employer 2.0 1.2 2.9 6.1 7.8 4.6 2.9 15.3
Contributions from members — — 0.1 0.1 — — 0.1 0.1 
Administration expenses paid (0.7) (0.3) (0.2) (1.2) (1.1) (0.4) — (1.5) 
Benefits paid (18.6) (4.7) (4.4) (27.7) (20.0) (5.0) (2.3) (27.3) 
a s at 31 December 555.1 76.2 21.7 653.0 485.5 68.1 27.0 580.6
The Group’s pension plans in Germany are unfunded, as is common practice in that country, and accordingly there are no assets 
associated with these plans.
29.6 Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities/assets
2014
total 
£m
2013
total 
£m
Remeasurement of liabilities:
— demographic changes (5.5) —
— financial assumptions (78.4) (3.5)
— experience (gains)/losses (2.8) 4.4
Remeasurement of assets 76.8 9.3
Total movement (9.9) 10.2
141
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.7 Balance sheet recognition
The amount recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement 
benefit plans is analysed in the following tables, which all relate to continuing operations. All equity securities and bonds have quoted 
prices in active markets.
Defined benefit pension plans Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
UK 
£m
US 
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
2014 
total
£m
Equities 68.2 15.7 — 2.2 86.1 — 86.1
Bonds 181.4 53.6 — 1.2 236.2 — 236.2
Insurance contracts 281.3 — — 14.6 295.9 — 295.9
Other assets 24.2 6.9 — 3.7 34.8 — 34.8
Fair value of plan assets 555.1 76.2 — 21.7 653.0 — 653.0
Present value of funded obligations (505.3) (101.1) — (36.9) (643.3) — (643.3)
49.8 (24.9) — (15.2) 9.7 — 9.7
Present value of unfunded obligations (1.0) (10.7) (39.9) (3.8) (55.4) (5.4) (60.8)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 48.8 (35.6) (39.9) (19.0) (45.7) (5.4) (51.1)
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Net surpluses 49.8 — — — 49.8 — 49.8
Net liabilities (1.0) (35.6) (39.9) (19.0) (95.5) (5.4) (100.9)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 48.8 (35.6) (39.9) (19.0) (45.7) (5.4) (51.1)
Defined benefit pension plans Other post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
UK 
£m
US 
£m
Germany
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
2013 
total
£m
Equities 29.9 13.7 — 2.1 45.7 — 45.7
Bonds — 47.7 — 1.4 49.1 — 49.1
Risk-mitigation derivatives 2.3 — — — 2.3 — 2.3
Insurance contracts 257.8 — — 20.3 278.1 — 278.1
Other assets 195.5 6.7 — 3.2 205.4 — 205.4
Fair value of plan assets 485.5 68.1 — 27.0 580.6 — 580.6
Present value of funded obligations (456.8) (82.2) — (38.1) (577.1) — (577.1)
28.7 (14.1) — (11.1) 3.5 — 3.5
Present value of unfunded obligations (1.3) (9.2) (32.6) (0.2) (43.3) (8.1) (51.4)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 27.4 (23.3) (32.6) (11.3) (39.8) (8.1) (47.9)
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as:
Net surpluses 28.7 — — — 28.7 — 28.7
Net liabilities (1.3) (23.3) (32.6) (11.3) (68.5) (8.1) (76.6)
Total net surpluses/(liabilities) 27.4 (23.3) (32.6) (11.3) (39.8) (8.1) (47.9)
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 142 29. Employee benefits (continued)
29.7 Balance sheet recognition (continued)
(a) UK Plan asset allocation
As at 31 December 2014, of the UK Plan’s total assets, 51 % were represented by the bulk annuity insurance contracts covering the UK 
Plan’s pension liabilities; 12% were allocated to equities; 33% to fixed income securities; 2% to cash; and 2% to other assets. In addition, 
the UK Plan holds a liability driven investment portfolio of financial derivative contracts which reduces the risk that the UK Plan’s assets 
would fall materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities.
(b) Defined benefit contributions in 2015
In 2015, the Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits plans 
of around £5m.
29.8 Income statement recognition
The expense recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement 
benefit plans is shown below.
2014 2013
Defined
benefit
pension
plans
£m
Other
post-
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Defined
benefit
pension
plans
as restated
£m
Other
post- 
retirement
benefit
plans
£m
Total
£m
Current service cost 4.6 0.1 4.7 4.0 0.5 4.5
Settlements (3.6) — (3.6) — — —
Administration expenses 1.2 — 1.2 1.5 — 1.5
Net interest cost 1.6 0.2 1.8 1.6 0.2 1.8
Total net charge 3.8 0.3 4.1 7.1 0.7 7.8
The total net charge of £4. 1m (2013: £7 .8m) recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
plans and other post-retirement benefits plans is recognised in the following lines:
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
In arriving at trading profit  — within other manufacturing costs 2.0 1.9 
 — within administration, selling and distribution costs 0.3 4.1 
In arriving at profit before tax — within net finance costs 1.8 1.8 
c ontinuing operations — charge 4.1 7.8 
Discontinued operations — — 
Total net charge 4.1 7.8 
As at 31 December 2014, the defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands was converted to a defined contribution plan, eliminating 
the net obligation of the defined benefit plan, resulting in a settlement gain of £3.6m from the conversion of the plan, recognised within 
trading profit.
143
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
30. Share-based payments
30. 1 Income statement recognition
The total expense recognised in the Group income statement is shown below.
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Long Term Incentive Plan 0.8 2.4
Other plans 1.5 0.2
Total expense 2.3 2.6
The Group operates a number of different share-based payment plans, the most significant of which is the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”), details of which can be found between pages 75 to 93 of the Directors’ remuneration report. The Group’s other share-based 
payment plans are not considered significant in the context of the Group’s results or financial position.
30.2 Details of outstanding options
Outstanding awards
a s at  
1 Jan 2014  
no.
Granted 
no.
Exercised 
no.
Forfeited/ 
lapsed 
no.
a s at  
31 Dec 2014 
no.
LTIP 2,276,510 881,270 (325,289) (949,993) 1,882,498
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil
Other plans 120,823 705,273 (155,724) (44,029) 626,343
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil
For the options exercised during 2014, the share price at the date of exercise was 436 pence for LTIP schemes and 410 or 420 pence for 
other plans.
Outstanding awards
As at  
1 Jan 2013 
no.
Granted 
no.
Exercised 
no.
Forfeited/ 
lapsed 
no.
As at 
31 Dec 2013 
no.
LTIP 2,575,362 587,729 (607,847) (278,734) 2,276,510
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil
Other plans 290,536 8,658 (165,354) (13,017) 120,823
Weighted average exercise price 51p nil 81p 288p nil
For options exercised during 2013, the share price at the date of exercise was 332 pence for LTIP schemes and 332 or 460 pence for 
other plans.
2014 2013
awards
exercisable
as at
31 Dec 2014
no.
Weighted
average
outstanding
contractual
life of awards
years
Range of
exercise
prices
pence
Awards
exercisable
as at
31 Dec 2013
no.
Weighted
average
outstanding
contractual
life of awards
years
Range of
exercise
prices
pence
LTIP — 4.2 — 2.4 
Weighted average exercise price — n/a — n/a
Other plans — 1.3 — 0.6
Weighted average exercise price — n/a — nil
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 144 30. Share-based payments (continued)
30.3 Options granted under the LTIP during the year
2014 2013
EPS 
element
TSR 
element
EPS 
element
TSR 
element
Fair value of options granted (per share) 429p 154p 322p 188p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 429p 429p 322p 322p
Expected volatility n/a 26% n/a 38.6% 
Risk-free interest rate n/a 1.03% n/a 0.3% 
Exercise price (per share) nil nil nil nil
Expected term (years) 4 4 4 4
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 
Share price volatility for options granted in 2013 is based upon weekly movements in the Company’s (formerly Cookson’s) share price 
either over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award, or a shorter period for 2014 awards 
where this was considered more representative of the Company’s post-demerger performance.
31. Trade and other payables
31. 1 Accounting policy
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method.
31.2 Analysis of trade and other payables
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Non-current
Accruals and other payables 15.0 18.5
Deferred purchase and contingent consideration 3.2 0.1
Total non-current other payables 18.2 18.6
c urrent
Trade payables 123.8 117.5
Other taxes and social security 32.5 31.8
Deferred purchase and contingent consideration 1.9 —
Accruals and other payables 62.8 65.2
Total current trade and other payables 221.0 214.5
There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other payables balances and the amount at which they 
are reported in the Group balance sheet.
145
Financial Statement S Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
32. Leases
32. 1 Accounting policy
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also 
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
32.2 Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows:
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Not later than one year 7.5 8.4
Later than one year and not later than five years 15.3 17.6
Later than five years 4.7 6.4
Total operating lease commitments 27.5 32.4
The Group’s property, plant and equipment assets are either purchased outright or held under lease contracts. Where the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group, the asset is capitalised in the Group balance 
sheet and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance lease obligation. Where all the risks and rewards of ownership 
are not transferred to the Group, the lease is classified as an operating lease and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the 
lessor is recognised in the Group balance sheet. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment assets held under 
finance lease contracts at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 was not material.
The cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged within trading profit, 
amounted to £12.7m (2013: £14.4m).
33. Provisions
33. 1 Accounting policy
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will 
be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the 
obligation. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
33.2 Analysis of provisions
Disposal and
closure costs
£m
Restructuring
charges
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
a s at 1 January 2014 30.4 12.9 12.8 56.1
Exchange adjustments 1.6 (0.1) 0.2 1.7
Net charge to Group income statement — 0.2 5.8 6.0
Unwind of discount 0.9 0.2 — 1.1
Cash spend (2.5) (5.8) (6.5) (14.8)
Transferred from other payables — 0.6 2.0 2.6
a s at 31 December 2014 30.4 8.0 14.3 52.7
Of the total provision balance as at 31 December 2014 of £52.7m (2013: £56. 1m), £31.9m (2013: £35.3m) is recognised in the Group 
balance sheet within non-current liabilities and £20.8m (2013: £20.8m) within current liabilities.
The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors’ current best estimate of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment 
of obligations incurred in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related 
to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites. The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting 
both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability. As the settlement 
of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash 
outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next ten years and 
the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 146 33. Provisions (continued)
33.2 Analysis of provisions (continued)
The provision for restructuring charges includes the costs of all of the Group’s initiatives to rationalise its operating activities. The balance 
of £8.0m as at 31 December 2014 comprises £4.4m in relation to onerous lease provisions in respect of leases terminating between one 
and eight years, and £3.6m in relation to future expenditure on restructuring initiatives which is expected to be paid out over the next 
two years.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory 
requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal 
or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of amounts provided 
are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed 
circumstances with regard to individual matters. During 2014 the Group recognised net charges of £5.8m (2013: net credit £3.2m) in the 
income statement to provide for various litigation settlements and other claims. Of these charges, £4.7m (2013: £2.2m) is to set aside 
a total provision of £6.9m relating to the full and final settlement of actions brought by MacDermid (incorporated in the United States) 
against Vesuvius and Alent plc that arose out of corporate activity between the parties in 2006. The £6.9m provision for the settlement  
of MacDermid claims consists of £6.4m, being Vesuvius’ share of the net settlement, and a further £0.5m set aside for remaining legal  
fees associated with MacDermid claims. This matter was noted as a contingent liability in Vesuvius’ 2013 Annual report.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group balance sheet only when 
its realisation is virtually certain. As at 31 December 2014, £1 1.4m (2013: £10.4m) was recorded in receivables in respect of associated 
insurance reimbursements, of which £9.0m (2013: £8. 1m) is non-current. The amounts reported in the table above as charged to the 
Group income statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge reported as a movement on provisions. Other 
components of the charge, such as asset write-offs, are reported as a reduction in the carrying value of the relevant balance sheet item.
34. Off-balance sheet arrangements
In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course of business are 
not reported in the Group balance sheet. Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors are: future lease payments in 
relation to assets used by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases (Note 32).
35. c ontingent liabilities
Guarantees given by the Group under property leases of operations disposed of amounted to £2.3m (2013: £2.7m). Details of guarantees 
given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in Note 10 to the Company financial statements.
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation 
and environmental matters. Several of Vesuvius’ subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising 
in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and the Directors are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, 
the subject of dispute with tax authorities. Reserves are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs 
resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for 
which reserve is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some 
uncertainty (see Note 33 for further information).
Certain of Vesuvius’ subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits, predominantly in the US, relating to a small number of products containing 
asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by Vesuvius. These suits usually also name many other product 
manufacturers. To date, Vesuvius is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries. A number of lawsuits 
have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a material adverse 
effect on Vesuvius’ financial position or results of operations.
36. Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures
Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Vesuvius plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in Note 5 
to the Company financial statements, together with detail of subsidiaries exempt from audit of their individual financial statements by 
virtue of section 479A Companies Act 2006.
37. Related parties
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business terms. Transactions 
between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
147
Financial Statement S Notes
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 5 1,780.3 1,778.9
Total fixed assets 1,780.3 1,778.9
c urrent assets
Debtors — amounts falling due within one year 10.5 0.1
Cash at bank and in hand — 0.4
Total current assets 10.5 0.5
c reditors — amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 6 (991.7) (939.5)
Net current liabilities (981.2) (939.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 799.1 839.9
Net assets 799.1 839.9
Equity capital and reserves
Issued share capital 7 27.8 27.8
Retained earnings 771.3 812.1
Shareholders’ funds — equity 8 799.1 839.9
Company number 8217766 
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 3 March 2015 and signed on their behalf by:
François Wanecq
Chief Executive
c hris O’Shea
Chief Financial Officer
 Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 148 1. Basis of preparation
1. 1 Basis of accounting
The financial statements of Vesuvius plc are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and under the historical cost 
convention and in accordance with UK GAAP . The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account, as permitted 
by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006.
1.2 Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2014 financial statements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
2. Employee benefits expense
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 75 to 93.
3. a udit and non-audit fees
Amounts payable to KPMG LLP in relation to audit and non-audit fees are disclosed within Note 6 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
4. Dividends
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £30. 1m (2013: £27 .7m), equivalent to 1 1. 125 pence per ordinary share 
(2013: 10.25 pence), is subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders on 
the register at 10 April 2015.
5. Investment in subsidiaries
5. 1 Accounting policy
Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment in value.
5.2 Analysis of investment in subsidiaries
Shares in
subsidiaries
£m
As at 1 January 2013 1,777.9
Additions 1.0
a s at 1 January 2014 1,778.9
Additions 1.4
a s at 31 December 2014 1,780.3
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Vesuvius plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are as follows:
Angang Vesuvius Refractory Company Ltd, China (50%) Foseco Ltd, England and Wales
†
Cookson America, Inc., USA Vesuvius Advanced Ceramics (China) Co. Ltd, China
Cookson Australia Pty Ltd, Australia Vesuvius Corporation SA, Switzerland
Cookson Ceramics Ltd, England and Wales Vesuvius Crucible Company, USA
Vesuvius Holdings Ltd, England and Wales* Vesuvius GmbH, Germany
Cookson Investments Ltd, England and Wales Vesuvius USA Corporation, USA
Cookson Overseas Ltd, England and Wales Wilkes-Lucas Ltd, England and Wales
Foseco International Ltd, England and Wales Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Advanced Ceramics Co. Ltd, China (50%)
Foseco (Jersey) Ltd, Jersey Wuhan Wugang-Vesuvius Advanced CCR Co. Ltd, China (50%)
With the exception of the company marked with an asterisk (*), the ordinary capital of the above companies was owned by a Vesuvius plc 
subsidiary as at 31 December 2014. All of the above companies are wholly owned, unless otherwise stated. A full list of Group companies 
will be included in the Company’s Annual Return to the Registrar of Companies.
†
See Note 5.2 overleaf.
Notes to the Company financial statements
149
Financial Statement S Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
5. Investment in subsidiaries (continued)
5.2 Analysis of investment in subsidiaries (continued)
The UK subsidiaries marked with a dagger (
†
) above, together with the following, are exempt from audit of their individual financial 
statements by virtue of Section 479A Companies Act 2006.
Brazil 1 Limited Foseco Transnational Limited
Cookson Minerals Limited Foseco Steel (Holdings) China Limited
Cookson Pigments (Holdings) Limited S G Blair & Company Limited
Foseco (UK) Limited Vesuvius China Limited
Foseco Technology Limited Vesuvius Group Limited
All of the above companies have the same year-end as Vesuvius plc and all subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company.
6. Other creditors
2014 
£m
2013  
£m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 990.3 937.7
Accruals and other creditors 1.4 1.8
Total amounts falling due within one year 991.7 939.5
7. Issued share capital
7 . 1 Accounting policy
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
7 .2 Analysis of issued share capital
The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2014 was 278.5 million shares of £0. 10 each (31 December 2013: 
278.5 million shares of £0. 10 each).
During 2013 the Company issued 36,319 ordinary shares of £0. 10 each for a total consideration of £0. 1m.
On 1 1 December 2013, the Company redeemed the 50,000 outstanding redeemable preference shares with a nominal value of £1 each 
for £50,000. The consideration was satisfied by the cancellation of the undertaking to pay given by the holder of the preference shares 
at the time of issue. Also during the year, the Company redeemed the deferred share for no consideration and cancelled it.
During the year to 31 December 2014, the Company had repurchased 101,847 of its own shares for £0.5m via Cookson Investments 
(Jersey) Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP .
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 150 8. Shareholders’ funds
8. 1 Accounting policy
Taxation
Both current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the 
balance sheet date.
Current tax payable is based on the taxable result for the year. Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date, with the exception that deferred taxation assets are only 
recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable future profits from which the reversal of the underlying timing 
differences can be deducted. Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries 
only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
8.2 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share
capital
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 January 2013 27.8 — 888.1 915.9
Loss recognised in the period — — (4.5) (4.5)
Issue of new shares — 0.1 — 0.1
Purchase of own shares — — (34.1) (34.1)
Recognition of share-based payments — 1.9 — 1.9
Release of share reserve on exercise and lapsed options — (0.2) 0.2 —
Dividend paid — — (39.4) (39.4)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares — 0.1 (0.1) —
a s at 1 January 2014 27.8 1.9 810.2 839.9
Loss recognised for the year — — (1.6) (1.6)
Purchase of own shares — — (0.5) (0.5)
Disposal of own shares — — 1.0 1.0
Recognition of share-based payments — 1.5 — 1.5
Release of share reserve on exercise and lapsed options — (1.4) 1.4 —
Dividend paid — — (41.2) (41.2)
a s at 31 December 2014 27.8 2.0 769.3 799.1
151
Financial Statement S Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
9. Share-based payments
9. 1 Accounting policy
The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for its employees. Equity-settled share-based payments 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based 
conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return target upon which vesting for some of the awards is conditional, and is expensed on 
a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for 
the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth 
in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant. For grants with market-based 
conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. For all other grants, fair value is 
measured using the Black-Scholes model.
9.2 Profit and loss account recognition
The Company operates a number of different share-based payment schemes, the main features of which are detailed between pages 
75 to 93 of the Directors’ remuneration report. £1.3m was charged to the profit and loss account in the year with regard to share-based 
payments (2013: £0.9m).
9.3 Details of outstanding options
The information in the tables below has been restated to take into account the demerger of the Alent business from the Cookson 
Group. The number of share options, and other related disclosures, were adjusted with reference to the Vesuvius share price at the 
date of demerger.
 
Outstanding awards 
awards 
exercisable 
as at 
31 Dec  
2014 
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of 
awards 
years
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
a s at 
1 Jan  
2014 
no.
Granted 
no.
Exercised 
no.
Forfeited/ 
lapsed 
no.
a s at 
31 Dec  
2014 
no.
LTIP 1,244,609 463,667 (133,857) (346,842) 1,227,577 — 5.0
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil — n/a
Other plans 54,403 76,522 (87,624) — 43,301 — 2.1
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil — n/a
For options exercised during 2014, the share price at the date of exercise was 435 pence for LTIP schemes and 410 or 420 pence for 
other plans.
Outstanding awards 
Awards 
exercisable 
as at 
31 Dec  
2013 
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of 
awards 
years
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence
As at 
1 Jan  
2013 
no.
Granted 
no.
Exercised  
no.
Forfeited/
lapsed 
no.
As at
31 Dec  
2013 
no.
LTIP 847,076 559,016 (110,664) (50,819) 1,244,609 — 2.2
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil — n/a
Other plans 108,805 1,685 (56,087) — 54,403 — 0.8
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil nil — n/a
For options exercised during 2013, the share price at the date of exercise was 332 pence for LTIP schemes and 460 pence for other plans.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 152 9. Share-based payments (continued)
9.3 Details of outstanding options (continued)
As at 31 December 2014, the total options exercisable by all Group employees over the £0. 10 ordinary shares and capable of being 
satisfied through new allotments of shares or through shares held by the Company’s ESOP were as follows:
Years of
award/grant
Option
prices (£)
Latest year
of exercise/
vesting
Number
of options/
allocations
outstanding
Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 – 2014 nil 2015/2024 1,882,498
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2012 – 2014 nil 2015/2017 25,127
Restricted rights 2014 nil 2015/2015 40,407
FV of options granted under the LTIP during the year: 
2014 2013
EPS
element
TSR
element
EPS
element
TSR
element
Fair value of options granted (per share) 429p 154p 322p 188p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 429p 429p 322p 322p
Expected volatility n/a 26.0% n/a 38.6%
Risk-free interest rate n/a 1.03% n/a 0.3%
Exercise price (per share) nil nil nil nil
Expected term (years) 4 4 4 4
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0%
Share price volatility for options granted in 2013 is based upon weekly movements in the Company’s (formerly Cookson’s) share price over 
a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award, or a shorter period for 2014 awards where this 
was considered more representative of the Company’s post-demerger performance.
10. c ontingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee 
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee. Guarantees provided by the Company as at 31 December 2014 in respect of the liabilities of its subsidiary companies 
amounted to £457 .7m (2013: £467 .7m), which includes guarantees of $310m and €30m (2013: $310m and €30m) in respect of US Private 
Placement Loan Notes and £81.5m (2013: £96.4m) in respect of drawings under the syndicated bank facility; together with £108.2m 
(2013: £108.2m) in relation to a guarantee provided to the Company’s UK subsidiary which acts as Trustee for the Group’s UK pension 
plan. The guarantee is over all present and future pension liabilities of the plan and the contingent liability amount represents the net 
deficit on a solvency valuation basis as shown in the most recent triennial valuation.
Vesuvius has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation 
and environmental matters. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims 
arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, 
the subject of dispute with tax authorities. While the outcome of litigation and other disputes can never be predicted with certainty, 
having regard to legal advice received and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that 
none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition 
or results of operations.
11. Related parties
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business terms. Transactions 
between related parties that are wholly owned Group subsidiaries are not disclosed in this Note.
153
Financial Statement S 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Steel division
Revenue £m 981 1,018 1,018 1,078 980
Trading profit
(1)
 £m 96.4 88.7 83.1 105.8 102.4
Return on sales
(1)
 % 9.8 8.7 8.2 9.8 10.4
Employees: year-end no. 8,349 7,524 7,601 7,783 7,731
Foundry division
Revenue £m 463 493 530 608 515
Trading profit
(1)
 £m 46.4 51.3 48.2 75.5 66.8
Return on sales
(1)
 % 10.0 10.4 9.1 12.4 13.0
Employees: year-end no. 3,443 3,330 3,585 3,889 3,936
NOTE
1.  The unaudited trading profit numbers reported above for the years before 201 1 are stated after deduction of management’s estimate of the level of ongoing central costs 
for Vesuvius as a stand-alone company; and for the years before 2013 they are restated for the impact of IAS 19(R), which was adopted by the Company during 2013.
Enquiries
The Company’s share register is managed by Equiniti, who can be 
contacted regarding shareholding queries at the following address:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House, Spencer Road  
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA  
Tel (UK only) 0871 384 2335 
Tel (non-UK) +44 (0)121 415 7047
For the hard of hearing, Equiniti offers a special Textel service which 
can be accessed by dialling 0871 384 2255 (or +44 (0)121 415 7028 
from outside the UK).
All other shareholder enquiries not related to the share register  
should be addressed to the Company Secretary at the registered  
office or emailed to shareholder.information@vesuvius.com.
Registered office and Group head office
Vesuvius plc 
165 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2AE 
Tel +44 (0)20 7822 0000 
Fax +44 (0)20 7822 0100 
(Registered in England & Wales No. 8217766)
c orporate website
Shareholder and other information about the Company can be 
accessed on the Company’s website www.vesuvius.com.
Shareview
A website, www.shareview.co.uk, is operated by Equiniti, the 
Company’s Registrars, enabling shareholders to access details of their 
shareholdings online. The website provides information useful to the 
management of investments together with an extensive schedule of 
frequently asked questions. In order to gain access to information on 
shareholdings the shareholder reference number is required, which 
can be found at the top of the Company’s share certificates.
Shareholders can register to receive shareholder communications 
electronically, including the Company’s Annual report and accounts, 
rather than in paper form, using Shareview. The registration process 
requires input of the shareholder reference number. To ensure that 
shareholder communications are received in electronic form, “email” 
should be selected as the mailing preference. Once registered, 
shareholders will be sent an email notifying them each time  
that a shareholder communication has been published on the 
Company’s website.
Dealing services
UK resident shareholders can now sell shares on the Internet or by 
phone using Equiniti’s Shareview Dealing facility by either logging 
on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling 0845 603 7037 
between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm on any business day (excluding 
Bank Holidays).
In order to gain access to this service the shareholder reference 
number is required, which can be found at the top of the  
Company’s share certificates.
Five-year summary – Divisional results from 
continuing operations
Shareholder information
Vesuvius plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 154 Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company offers holders of ordinary shares the opportunity 
to participate in a dividend reinvestment plan, through which 
shareholders can use any cash dividend declared to buy additional 
shares in Vesuvius. Further details, including the terms and conditions 
of the plan, are available on the Vesuvius website www.vesuvius.com 
or from Equiniti by calling the Share Dividend Helpline on 
0871 384 2268 (or +44 (0)121 415 7047 from outside the UK).
Overseas payment service
Equiniti provides a dividend payment service in over 90 countries 
that automatically converts payments into the local currency 
by an arrangement with Citibank Europe PLC. Further details, 
including an application form and terms and conditions of the 
service, are available on www.shareview.co.uk or from Equiniti by 
calling +44 (0)121 415 7047 or writing to Equiniti, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom 
(please quote Overseas Payment Service with details of the Company 
and your shareholder reference number).
Financial calendar
2015 Annual General Meeting 14 May 2015
Announcement of 2015 half-year results 31 July 2015
Share fraud and boiler rooms
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors 
into scams. Share scams are often run from “boiler rooms” where 
fraudsters cold-call investors and offer to sell shares that turn out to 
be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in 
return for an upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you 
buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money. 
How to avoid share fraud 
1.  Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
2.  Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you and then end the call.
3.  Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see 
if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4.  Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details.
5.  Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want 
to call it back.
6.  Call the FCA on 0800 1 1 1 6768 if the firm does not have contact 
details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
7 .  Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at  
www.scamsmart.fca.org.uk/.
8.  Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
or Financial Services Compensation scheme.
9.  Think about getting independent financial and professional advice 
before you hand over any money.
10.  Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! 
For further information on how to protect yourself from share fraud, 
visit www.scamsmart.fca.org.uk/.
a nalysis of ordinary shareholders
a s at 31 December 2014
Investor type Shareholdings
Private
Institutional
and other Total 1–1,000
1,001–
50,000
50,001–
500,000 500,001+
Number of holders 2,844 742 3,586 2,813 608 107 58
Percentage of holders 79.31% 20.69% 100% 78.45% 16.95% 2.98% 1.62%
Percentage of shares held 0.96% 99.04% 100% 0.16% 1.55% 6.48% 91.81%
155
Financial Statement S 8D An eight-step Vesuvius methodology to resolve 
customer, supplier and internal quality issues
ABC Anti-bribery and corruption
AGM Annual General Meeting
Boiler room A term for an approach by unscrupulous people 
trying to buy/sell shares in worthless companies
Capex Capital expenditure
CE Chief Executive
CFD Computational Fluid Dynamics
CFO Chief Financial Officer
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
CO
2
e Carbon dioxide equivalent
Code of  
Conduct 
The Vesuvius code of conduct emphasising the 
Group’s commitment to legal and ethical behaviour
Company Vesuvius plc
CRC UK Government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment
Deloitte LLP An audit firm, used for advice to the Remuneration 
Committee and the Company
DRIP Dividend reinvestment plan
DSBP Deferred share bonus plan
DTR The Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the  
UK Financial Conduct Authority
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa
EPS Earnings per share
EU European Union
FEC Foundry Executive Committee
Fluxes A range of powders used alongside refractory 
products in the enclosed continuous casting 
process for steel production
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FRS Financial Reporting Standards
FTSE 250 Equity index whose constituents are the 101st to 
350th largest companies listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in terms of their market capitalisation
Group Vesuvius plc and its subsidiary companies
GEC Group Executive Committee
HR Human Resources
HSE Health, Safety and the Environment
IAS International Accounting Standard
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IA The Investment Association
IP Intellectual property (for example, patents and 
trademarks) 
IR Investor Relations
ISO International Standards Organisation
ISO 14000 Internationally recognised series of standards 
which specify the requirements for an environment 
management system
ISO 9001: 2008 Internationally recognised standard which specifies 
the requirements for a quality management system
KPI Key performance indicator
LTC Ladle tube changer
LTI Lost time injury
LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate, a KPI which 
calculates the number of LTIs per million hours 
worked
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
Median The middle number in a sorted list of numbers
NED Non-executive Director
OEM Original Equipment Manufacture
OHAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services 
requirements for an OHS management system
Ordinary share An ordinary share of 10p in the capital of the 
Company
QHSE Quality, Health, Safety and the Environment
R&D Research and development
RCT Robotic Casting Technology
Scam To obtain money or other goods from somebody 
by dishonest means
SIOPA Safety Improvement Opportunity with Permanent 
Corrective Action
T3 Total tundish technology system
The Code/UK 
Code
The UK Corporate Governance code, issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012
Towers; Towers 
Watson 
A third-party firm of remuneration consultants 
used to advise the Remuneration Committee
TSR Total shareholder return
Turbo.S The Vesuvius safety training programme 
Turbo.Q The Vesuvius quality training programme
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
WSA World Steel Association
Glossary of terms
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Five: Financial Statements 156 Introduction to Vesuvius
Forward-looking statements This a nnual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 
respect to the operations, strategy, performance, financial condition, and growth opportunities of the 
Vesuvius Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty and are based on assumptions and 
involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this a nnual Report and, other than in accordance with its legal  
and regulatory obligations, the c ompany undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this a nnual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Vesuvius is a global leader in molten metal flow engineering, 
principally serving the steel and foundry industries.
We develop innovative and customised solutions, often  
used in extremely demanding industrial environments,  
which enable our customers to improve their  
manufacturing processes, enhance product quality  
and reduce energy consumption.
Our ultimate goal is to create value for our customers in  
order to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and provide 
our shareholders with a superior return on their investment, 
whilst providing each of our employees with a safe  
workplace where he or she is recognised, developed  
and properly rewarded. 
Find out more about Vesuvius at www.vesuvius.com
 See Strategy on p10-23
 See Business model on p10 and 1 1
 See KPIs on p32 and 33
 See Risk management on p22 and 23
Strategic reporting:
Printed by c PI c olour –  who are ISO14001 certified, 
c arbonNeutral
®
, a lcohol Free and FSc
®
 and PeFc c hain  
of c ustody certified. 
This report is produced on c laro Bulk – an FSc c ertified 
material, which is manufactured using totally chlorine  
free process, and from a sustainable supply FSc chain.  
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Designed and Produced by Friend. www.friendstudio.com VESUVIUS: black 85%
PLC: black 60%
VESUVIUS: white
PLC: black 20%
VESUVIUS: black 85%
PLC: black 60%
VESUVIUS: white
PLC: black 20%
Vesuvius plc 
165 Fleet Street
London ec4a 2ae
T +44 (0)20 7822 0000
www.vesuvius.com
Vesuvius plc a nnual report and accounts 2014
a nnual report and accounts 2014
