 ANNUAL REPORT
& ACCOUNTS
04-05
Viridian Group PLC,
Registered Office,
120 Malone Road,
Belfast BT9 5HT.
Registered in N.Ireland NI 33250
http://www.viridiangroup.co.uk
This document is printed on environmentally-kind paper.  The pulp used for
papermaking is obtained from responsibly farmed sources.  No hard woods from
rain forests are used.  The papermaking process is 100% chlorine free and the mill
operates on a closed water system with no direct discharge into rivers or the sea.
Designed by FireIMC
Printed by Heanor Gate Printing Limited Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Contents 1
CONTENTS
Page
Group Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 3
Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
Board of Directors 6
Directors’ Report and Operating and Financial Review 7
Operating Review 7
Financial Review 15
Corporate Governance 18
Corporate Social Responsibility 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Directors’ Report 35
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 37
Independent Auditors' Report 38
Group Profit and Loss Account 39
Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 39
Balance Sheets 40
Group Cash Flow Statement 41
Notes to the Accounts 42
Shareholder Information 71
Glossary of Terms 72 Group Financial Highlights 2
Dipesh Shah
Chairman (non-executive)
Patrick Haren
Group Chief Executive
Patrick Bourke
Group Finance Director
Harry McCracken
Group Managing Director, Viridian Power & Energy
• Turnover increased 13% to £943.7m (2004 - £834.2m)
• Profit before interest and tax of £111.0m (2004 - £114.2m,
including exceptional credit of £13.4m)
• Pro-forma profit before interest and tax
1
increased 15% to
£129.0m (2004 - £112.5m)
• Basic earnings per share of 51.0p (2004 - 55.9p, including
exceptional credit of 10.7p)
• Pro-forma earnings per share
2
increased 14% to 60.8p 
(2004 - 53.3p)
• Sx3 disposal delivers significant shareholder value
• A final dividend of 25.34p per share which, together with the
interim dividend of 9.84p, gives a total of 35.18p, a 4.5%
increase over 2003/04
1
Based on regulated entitlement and pre exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation as described more fully in the Financial Review.
2
Based on regulated entitlement and pre exceptional items, goodwill
amortisation and deferred taxation as described more fully in the Financial
Review.
All references in this document to “Group” denote Viridian Group PLC and its
subsidiary undertakings and to “Company” denote Viridian Group PLC, the 
parent company.
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Chairman’s Statement 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DIPESH SHAH
In this, my first Chairman’s statement, I am pleased to report a
robust performance by the Group.  Our regulated businesses in
Northern Ireland have delivered strong contributions while meeting
the demands of their price controls.  Viridian Power & Energy
(VP&E) has maintained high availability from Huntstown power
station phase one (Huntstown 1) and has successfully grown its
supply position across Ireland, leading to a significant increase in its
contribution to the Group’s profits.  Powerteam has increased its
contribution through growth in its external business.  Sx3 continued
to improve margin performance and exceeded its target of a high
single digit operating profit margin.
In March, we announced the disposal of Sx3 to Northgate
Information Solutions plc (Northgate) for £155m.  The transaction,
which completed on 25 April 2005, results in a book gain of
approximately £100m in the financial year 2005/06, delivering
significant value to shareholders.  As outlined in the disposal
announcement, we intend to make a one-off return of capital to
shareholders of around £100m representing approximately 10% of
our market capitalisation.  We have decided to effect this through a
B share scheme (accompanied by a share consolidation), under
which all shareholders will be treated equally and will be able to
elect to receive their payment as a dividend or through the
redemption of B shares.
Following the disposal of Sx3 we are strongly focused on our energy
businesses in Ireland:
• Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) - maximising the efficiency of
our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our
business; and
• VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in
competitive markets across Ireland.
Further investment in generation is central to our strategy and we
intend to start construction of Huntstown power station phase two
(Huntstown 2) this summer.
Our goal is to deliver shareholder value through consistent
performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Financial Results
Group turnover increased by 13% from £834.2m to £943.7m
principally due to increased turnover from VP&E and NIE.
Taken together, NIE’s regulated businesses incurred a net under-
recovery of £15.8m (2004 - £9.5m) against the income to which
they were entitled under their regulatory formulae.  In line with the
treatment adopted last year (and as further explained in the
Financial Review), we have added back the impact of this under-
recovery in arriving at pro-forma profit before interest and tax and
earnings per share.
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax (based on regulated
entitlement and pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation)
increased by 15% from £112.5m to £129.0m.  After deducting a
lower interest charge and a higher taxation charge, pro-forma
earnings per share (based on regulated entitlement and pre
exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax) increased
by 14% to 60.8p (2004 - 53.3p).  Net debt decreased by £22.8m to
£359.9m at 31 March 2005 from £382.7m at 31 March 2004.
Dividends
A final dividend of 25.34p per share is recommended which,
together with the interim dividend of 9.84p, amounts to a total of
35.18p for the year, a 4.5% increase on last year.  This is in line with
our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across the current
Transmission and Distribution (T&D) regulatory period.
Board
I was appointed Chairman on 1 May 2005, following the retirement
of Philip Rogerson who provided the Company with seven years of
exceptional service, having joined the Board as a non-executive
director in 1998 and having been appointed Chairman in 1999.  In
February 2005, Desmond Smyth also retired from the Board, having
made an outstanding contribution to the Company as a non-
executive director for nine years.  Our thanks go to both of them for
their dedication and wise counsel.  
Employees
The Group’s strong performance is due to the commitment of our
employees.  Across the Group, they have continued to work hard,
effectively and with dedication.  This was aptly demonstrated by the
tremendous response, in very difficult circumstances, to severe
adverse weather conditions experienced in Northern Ireland this
winter.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees
for their valued input throughout the past year.
Looking Forward
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of
our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this year’s
results.  Our NIE businesses are well positioned as we enter the last
two years of the current T&D price control and we are looking to
build on VP&E’s significant progress to date.  The disposal of Sx3
and associated return of capital reinforce our commitment to our
goal of delivering shareholder value, and allow us to continue to
focus on the development of our energy businesses in Ireland.
Dipesh J. Shah
17 May 2005 Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PATRICK HAREN
This is a good set of results.  Pro-forma profit before interest and tax
(based on regulated entitlement and pre exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation) grew from £112.5m to £129.0m reflecting
increased profits from VP&E, Sx3 and Powerteam together with
further realisation of value from property disposals.
NIE’s T&D business has completed the third year of its current five
year price control, which is effective until March 2007.  NIE Supply’s
price control was successfully extended to March 2007 and we have
recently agreed with the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy
Regulation (NIAER) a one year price control extension for the Power
Procurement business (PPB) from March 2005 to March 2006.  We
continue to pursue an extension to SONI’s price control from March
2005 to March 2008.  
VP&E increased its profit contribution by 38% to £25.2m (2004 -
£18.3m) principally as a result of growth in the Republic of Ireland
(RoI).  Energia, our competitive supply business, now has c15,000
business customers across Ireland.
Sx3 increased its profits significantly during the year, achieving an
operating profit margin of 10.8%.  The sale of Sx3 follows disposals
of other non-core businesses over the last number of years.  These
disposals have reinforced our commitment to energy markets in
Ireland.  Specifically they provide us with the balance sheet strength
to effect a significant return of value to shareholders, to invest
further in generation on the Huntstown site and to pursue other
energy related investment opportunities across Ireland.
Northern Ireland Electricity
Transmission and Distribution 
T&D revenues (based on regulated entitlement) decreased by £2.0m
due to lower price control revenues together with new arrangements
for funding energy efficiency projects which were previously funded
via T&D’s use of system charges.  These decreases were partly offset
by increased revenues associated with the recovery of market
opening costs.  Based on regulated entitlement, T&D made profits of
£71.4m compared to £73.9m last year.  This reflects the reduction
in price control revenues together with a higher depreciation charge
and an increase in provisions required for further employee
reductions, offset by reductions in operating costs.  Areas in which
reductions in operating costs were achieved included lower staffing
levels and decreases in information technology and premises costs.  
While we continually exert downward pressure on costs, this is not at
the expense of standards of service to our customers.  We fully
recognise our responsibility to maintain and operate a safe and
reliable network.
We continue to make substantial investment in our infrastructure
assets.  Network capital expenditure was in line with the regulatory
allowance.  Total capital expenditure (before customer
contributions), including expenditure on customer service systems,
other non-network assets and new systems required to support
market opening in Northern Ireland, was £72.5m (2004 - £66.4m).
NIAER has agreed that approved expenditure and systems
associated with market opening in Northern Ireland will be recovered
over five years and will earn the regulated rate of return of 6.5% 
pre-tax real.
Power Procurement/SONI
Profits from PPB and the transmission system operator, SONI,
(based on regulated entitlement) increased to £6.5m (2004 -
£5.6m), reflecting increased trading income from PPB.  The price
control for PPB which was due to expire in March 2005, has been
extended to March 2006 by agreement with NIAER.  We have
submitted a proposal to NIAER for the SONI price control to be
extended from March 2005 to March 2008. 
NIE Supply
NIE Supply’s profits (based on regulated entitlement) increased to
£6.4m (2004 - £5.8m) as a result of reduced operating charges
primarily from lower staffing levels.  In August 2004 we reached
agreement with NIAER on a two year extension of NIE Supply’s price
control to March 2007.  This encompasses further investment in the
keypad pre-payment meters which have been promoted successfully
by NIE and are supported by NIAER.  It also covers further
investment in energy efficiency measures and a new programme to
promote the development of micro-renewable generation in the
domestic sector.
Powerteam
Powerteam made good progress during the year increasing its profits
to £4.6m (2004 - £2.4m).  This was driven by growth in its external
business and, in particular, a full year’s contribution in respect of
network refurbishment carried out under the three year framework
contract awarded in June 2003 by Electricity Supply Board (ESB).
While Powerteam derives the majority of its revenue from the T&D
business, external sales accounted for 41% of total sales in the year. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Group Chief Executive’s Review 5
Viridian Power & Energy
VP&E has delivered a strong operating performance.  Turnover
increased from £206.0m to £273.6m due to growth in its customer
base in both Northern Ireland and the RoI together with increased
prices associated with higher fuel costs.  Operating profit increased
by 38% to £25.2m (2004 - £18.3m) reflecting volume growth in
both markets and increased profits in the RoI, offset by lower profits
in Northern Ireland.
Our strategy in VP&E is to grow our supply position through a
combination of generation assets and wholesale contracts.  In
Northern Ireland, power is purchased under fixed price contracts
from Scotland through the Moyle Interconnector and from
generation, including renewable sources, in Northern Ireland.  In 
the RoI, customer contracts are backed by generation from
Huntstown 1, imports from Scotland and Northern Ireland and a
wholesale product (VIPP) made available by ESB.
Generation
Huntstown 1 continued to perform well achieving availability of 98%
in 2004/05 excluding the effect of the major planned outage which
started on 12 March 2005.  The planned maintenance for which this
outage was required was successfully completed within the
scheduled period on 18 April 2005.  As at 31 March 2005,
Huntstown 1’s gas requirements for 2005/06 were more than 60%
hedged and its requirements for CO
2
emission credits for the same
year (under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) which
came into effect on 1 January 2005) were fully covered by forward
purchase contracts.
Further investment in generation on the Huntstown site is central to
our strategy.  Last September, we announced our decision to
construct a further CCGT plant at Huntstown (Huntstown 2) with a
capacity of 400MW.  This is against the background of electricity
demand projections in the RoI which indicate a continuing need for
further generating capacity.  Construction is due to commence this
summer with commissioning targeted for autumn 2007.
For the few months during which Huntstown 2 is expected to be
operational in 2007, it will be allocated a share of CO
2
emission
credits set aside specifically for new entrants.  We expect the station
to receive a separate allocation of CO
2
emission credits (in line with
other generating plant in the RoI) at the start of phase two of the EU
ETS in January 2008.  
Supply
Energia, our competitive supply business, grew its customer base
across Ireland as markets, both North and South, opened further to
competition.  In the RoI, the remaining small to medium sized
enterprises (SMEs) and the whole of the domestic sector became
eligible for competition in February 2005.  In Northern Ireland, the
remaining SMEs became eligible for competition in March 2005 but
the domestic sector is not expected to open to competition 
until 2007. 
In the RoI, Energia has maintained its market share of some 33% by
volume of the large energy user (LEU) market, supplying c300
customer sites at 31 March 2005.  In the SME market, Energia has
increased its market share to 6% by volume (2004 - 1%) supplying
c11,200 customer sites at 31 March 2005 (2004 - c3,500).  Energia
plans to grow its customer base in the RoI to match the output from
Huntstown 2.  To facilitate this, Energia has secured two year
capacity over the North-South interconnector linking Northern 
Ireland and the RoI through which it will import power from Northern
Ireland.  For financial year 2005/06, Energia is offering to supply a
number of large customers with both electricity and gas.
In Northern Ireland, Energia has maintained its market share of
some 50% by volume of the LEU market supplying c400 customer
sites at 31 March 2005.  In the SME market, Energia has increased
its market share to 8% by volume (2004 - 4%) supplying c3,400
customer sites at 31 March 2005 (2004 - c2,700).  We expect the
SME sector to become fully active relatively slowly as SMEs install
the requisite on-line metering.  Energia plans to retain its customer
base against the background of the recent commissioning of ESB’s
new 400MW CCGT plant at Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland and, to
assist this retention, has secured contracts beyond one year for
approximately 40% of its customer demand.
From 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland are required to
source a proportion of their capacity from renewable generation
(2.5% in 2005/06 increasing to 6.3% in 2012/13).  Based on its
existing contracted renewable generating capacity (33MW), Energia
will be compliant under this obligation until 2010.  Surplus
Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) are expected to provide an
incremental profit opportunity in the short to medium-term.
Energia’s aim is to negotiate further contracts with windfarm
developers in Northern Ireland, either as offtake arrangements, or
through direct investment where returns are appropriate.
Single Electricity Market
The Commission for Energy Regulation (CER) in the RoI and NIAER
are working towards the creation of a single electricity market for the
island of Ireland.  Proposals published at the end of March 2005
envisage a gross mandatory pool, namely a single wholesale market
in which buyers and sellers of electricity trade all their electricity on
a daily basis.  The proposals envisage some form of payment to
reward generators for making capacity available.  The final design for
the market will be published in June 2005, following consultation.
The target date for implementation is July 2007.
VP&E maintains a watching brief on opportunities to invest in further
interconnection between the RoI and Great Britain (East-West
interconnector) and in any upgrade to the North-South
interconnector between Northern Ireland and the RoI.
Sx3
Sx3 exceeded its target of a high single digit operating profit margin,
delivering a 10.8% margin (2004 - 6.1%).  Turnover increased from
£117.3m to £127.5m and operating profits increased from £7.1m to
£13.8m.  These increases resulted from strong performances by the
company’s Applications Solutions and Managed Services divisions,
continuing the trend towards a greater proportion of higher margin
services within the sales mix.  The sale of the business was
completed on 25 April 2005.  Sx3, under its new parent Northgate,
will continue to provide the Group with important IT and 
business services.
Patrick Haren
17 May 2005 Board of Directors 6
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
* - independent non-executive director
A - member of Audit Committee
E - member of Executive Committee
N - member of Nomination Committee
R - member of Remuneration Committee
Dipesh Shah (aged 52), 
Chairman (non-executive) (N)
Appointed non-executive Chairman in
May 2005 following Philip Rogerson’s
retirement.  Appointed as a 
non-executive director in November
2003.  Chief Executive of the United
Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
Non-executive director of Babcock
International Group PLC and 
non-executive Chairman of IT Power
Limited.  Until late 2002 held a number
of senior positions within BP plc, latterly
as Vice President and General Manager,
Acquisitions and Divestments and
formerly as chief executive of several
businesses within BP plc.
Patrick Haren (aged 54), 
Group Chief Executive (E, N)
Appointed Group Chief Executive in
February 1998.  Joined NIE as Chief
Executive in 1992.  He is a non-
executive director of Invest Northern
Ireland, the economic development
agency.  Previously Director of New
Business Investment with ESB in the
RoI and Chairman of ESB International.
Patrick Bourke (aged 48), 
Group Finance Director (E)
Joined as Group Finance Director in
September 2000.  Previously Head of
Mergers and Acquisitions and then
Group Treasurer at Powergen plc.  He
was formerly a director of Barclays de
Zoete Wedd and qualified as a
chartered accountant with Peat
Marwick (now KPMG).
Harry McCracken (aged 55), 
Group Managing Director, 
Viridian Power & Energy (E)
Appointed Group Managing Director,
VP&E in February 2003.  Previously
Managing Director, NIE with
responsibility for the Group’s regulated
electricity businesses.  Joined NIE in
1970 as an engineer and progressed to
Corporate Planning Manager prior to
appointment to the Board of NIE as
Operations Director in 1992.
Duncan Lewis (aged 54), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive director in
February 2002.  He chairs the
Remuneration Committee and, following
Desmond Smyth’s retirement, was
appointed by the Board as Senior
Independent Director in March 2005.
Senior Advisor, Telecommunications,
Media and Technology at the Carlyle
Group and non-executive Chairman of
MessageLabs Group Limited.  Non-
executive director of the British Library.
Non-executive director and Chairman of
the audit committee of CompleTel nv.
Formerly President and Chief Operating
Officer of GTS Inc, Managing Director of
Equant nv, Chief Executive of Granada
Media Group and held a number of
managing director and chief executive
positions at Cable and Wireless.  
Mike Toms (aged 51), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive director in
November 2003.  He has chaired the
Audit Committee since March 2005.
Group Director, Planning and Regulatory
Affairs at BAA plc since 2001 and a
member of its executive treasury
committee.  Formerly held the positions
of Chief Economist and Director of
Corporate Strategy at BAA plc and was
a non-executive director and member of
the audit committee of Australia Pacific
Airports Corporation.  He is a member
of the Governing Board of the Airports
Council International and a director of
the Airport Property Partnership.   Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Operating Review 7
History and Development of the Business
NIE was incorporated in 1991 as a public limited company and was
subsequently listed in 1993.  It carries on four regulated businesses
in Northern Ireland: transmission and distribution through T&D;
power procurement through PPB; transmission system operation
through SONI; and supply of electricity through NIE Supply.
Viridian Group PLC (Viridian) was formed as a new holding company
in 1998 following a capital reorganisation under which the Group’s
unregulated activities were separated from NIE.  Viridian is a public
limited company registered in Northern Ireland, listed on both the
London and Dublin Stock Exchanges.  
Over the last three years, the Group has developed a substantial
position in the newly competitive electricity supply markets in both
Northern Ireland and the RoI, including a significant investment in
new generating plant in the RoI.  In conjunction with this
development, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses
including Open + Direct (financial services); nevada
(telecommunications joint venture); Moyle Interconnector (electricity
interconnector between Northern Ireland and Scotland); and most
recently Sx3 (software and IT services).  The activities of the Group
are now conducted through two principal businesses:
• NIE - regulated electricity businesses in Northern Ireland; and
• VP&E - generation in the RoI and supply in the competitive
electricity markets in both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
Regulation and Legislation
Northern Ireland
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is governed principally by
the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 (1992 Order) as
amended by the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 (2003 Order)
(together the Orders) and by the conditions of the licences which
have been granted under the 1992 Order. 
Privatisation and re-structuring
The 1992 Order provided for the privatisation and restructuring of
the electricity industry in Northern Ireland which included the trade
sale of power stations previously owned by NIE.  PPB was
established to administer the long-term power purchase contracts
which were put in place with the new owners of the power stations.
NIE retained responsibility for the transmission, distribution and
supply of electricity.  A new regulatory framework was put in place to
provide for price regulation of NIE’s activities.
The regulators
NIAER and the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment
(DETI) are the principal regulators.  Each is given specific powers,
duties and functions under the Orders.  The functions of NIAER
include licensing (pursuant to a general authority given by DETI) and
the general supervision and enforcement of the licensing regime.
DETI’s functions include licensing, the giving of consents for new
power stations and overhead lines, fuel stocking, the encouragement
of renewable generation and the regulation of matters relating to the
quality and safety of electricity supply.
The regulators’ objectives and duties
The principal objective of NIAER and DETI in carrying out their
respective functions in relation to electricity is to protect the interests
of consumers of electricity wherever appropriate by promoting
effective competition between those engaged in, or in commercial
activities connected with, the generation, transmission or supply of
electricity.  Each of NIAER and DETI has a duty to carry out those
functions in the manner which it considers is best calculated to
further that principal objective, having regard to a number of factors,
including the need to ensure that all reasonable demands for
electricity are met and the need to ensure that licensees are able to
finance their authorised activities.  In performing that duty they are
required to have regard to the interests of individuals whose
circumstances include any of the following: being disabled; being
chronically sick; being of pensionable age; having low incomes; and
residing in rural areas.  They must also have regard to the effect of
the industry’s activities on the environment and their role includes
promoting energy efficiency.
The 2003 Order gives the General Consumer Council for Northern
Ireland (GCCNI) responsibility for representing electricity consumers
and dealing with complaints against electricity suppliers.  GCCNI
also has powers to investigate any matter relating to the interests of
electricity customers and to acquire information from electricity
licence holders.
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is also subject to UK and
EU legislation relating to the environment, competition and the
completion of the EU single market.  
Competition in generation and supply
The principal rules for trading electricity in Northern Ireland are
contained in the Supply Competition Code (SCC).  At the time of re-
structuring of the industry in 1992, the SCC required all licensed
generators to sell their entire capacity and output to PPB and
required relevant suppliers to buy all their requirements (with 
certain limited exceptions) from PPB at its regulated Bulk Supply
Tariff (BST). 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT AND OPERATING 
AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW Operating Review 8
The EU now requires the implementation of certain rules to secure
greater competition in the generation and supply of electricity.
Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 26 June 2003 (the 2003 Electricity Directive) concerning common
rules for the internal market in electricity requires market opening to
be extended to all non-domestic customers.  The amended SCC will
therefore provide for suppliers to supply such customers (c55,000
comprising c60% of the market by volume) from wholesalers
(generators) of their choice rather than solely from PPB. 
When supplying domestic customers, suppliers are still required to
purchase all of their wholesale requirements (with the exception of
supplies procured from renewable generation sources) from PPB.
The 2003 Electricity Directive requires 100% market opening, 
i.e. including all domestic customers (currently c703,000), by 
July 2007.
Licences
There are four types of electricity licence: transmission, public
electricity supply (PES), second tier supply and generation.  Taken
together these licences regulate the economic behaviour of
licensees; set a framework for competition in generation and supply;
underpin the arrangements relating to security of supply; protect the
technical integrity of the system and provide for certain types of
consumer services.
NIE’s transmission and PES licence
NIE holds a transmission licence and a PES licence combined in
one licence document (the Licence).  The Licence requires NIE to
carry on its activities through a number of separate businesses,
including T&D, PPB, SONI and NIE Supply. 
T&D is required to develop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated
and economical system of:
• electricity transmission - the bulk transfer of electricity across its
high voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables and
associated equipment mainly operating at 275kV and 110kV.
NIE’s transmission system is connected to that of the RoI
through 275kV and 110kV interconnectors and to the
transmission system in Scotland via the Moyle Interconnector. 
• electricity distribution - the transfer of electricity from the high
voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers across
a network of overhead lines and underground cables operating
at 33kV, 11kV and lower voltages.  
T&D must offer charges to suppliers for use of the transmission and
distribution system on a price-regulated and non-discriminatory
basis.  It is also required to offer terms for connection to the system
on a non-discriminatory basis approved by NIAER. 
NIAER has set guaranteed standards and overall standards covering
certain customer services, the majority of which apply to services
provided by T&D (e.g. the restoration of customers’ supplies
following an interruption and responding to customers’ voltage
complaints).  The guaranteed standards scheme applies in
individual cases and NIE is obliged to make a payment to each
customer affected if it fails to meet a guaranteed standard.  The
overall standards apply at the collective level and, whilst NIE is not
required to make payments to customers if it fails to meet an overall
standard, the Licence obliges NIE to conduct its business in such 
a way as can reasonably be expected to lead to it achieving the
overall standards.
PPB is required to draw up, publish and maintain the BST, in a form
approved by NIAER, under which it offers non-discriminatory, price-
regulated terms for the sale of electricity to suppliers.  An economic
purchasing obligation requires it to contract for electricity at the best
effective price reasonably obtainable, having regard to the sources
available, and to keep its commitments under review.  Once it has
met the needs of the market not yet eligible for competition, PPB is
incentivised to trade any contract surpluses into the competitive
market.  PPB is also required to draw up and publish a public
service obligation (PSO) charge for the provision of services which
are of a public service nature.  PSO charges are regulated under a
separate price control and are payable by all suppliers. 
SONI is required to maintain the operating security standard and to
publish a price-regulated system support services (SSS) charge for
the provision of the services it provides as transmission system
operator and market operator.  SSS charges are payable by all
suppliers.  At a future date, DETI intends to grant a separate licence
to SONI to meet the requirements of the 2003 Electricity Directive.
NIE Supply is obliged, subject to certain exceptions, upon request by
the owner or occupier of premises in Northern Ireland, to provide a
supply of electricity to those premises.  Any customer whose
maximum demand does not exceed 1MW is entitled to be supplied
on a published price-regulated tariff, although customers may
instead enter into a contract agreed with NIE Supply.  Customers
with a maximum demand greater than 1MW must enter into
individual contracts if they wish to receive a supply of electricity from
NIE Supply.  
Other licences
Second tier supply licences authorise holders to supply electricity to
premises within Northern Ireland, but do not contain all the
conditions imposed on NIE Supply in its capacity as the public
electricity supplier for Northern Ireland.  There are 10 holders of
second tier licences, of which four (including Energia) are currently
active in the competitive market. 
Holders of generation licences are required to make their plant
available to central despatch by SONI.  Their licences contain
provisions concerning change of control and the approval of power
station operators.  With certain limited exceptions, NIE is prohibited
from owning generation assets in Northern Ireland. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Operating Review 9
Licence compliance, modification, termination and revocation
NIAER has powers to enforce compliance with licences.  The 2003
Order provides for NIAER to levy a financial penalty (up to 10% of
turnover) for breach of a relevant condition. 
NIAER may modify the conditions of licences, either in accordance
with the terms of the licences or in accordance with the procedures
set out in the Orders, with the agreement of the licensee after due
notice, public consultation and consideration of any representations
and objections.  In the absence of such agreement, NIAER is
required to make a referral to the Competition Commission before a
proposed licence modification can be made.  Modifications may
introduce new conditions (relating to activities authorised by the
licence or to other activities) or may amend existing conditions.  A
modification can be vetoed by DETI.  Modifications of licence
conditions may also be made by statutory order in consequence of a
reference under the Competition Act 1998.
Licences may be terminated by not less than 25 years’ notice given
by DETI and are revocable by DETI in certain circumstances
including: where the licensee consents to revocation; where the
licensee fails to comply with an enforcement order made by NIAER;
or where specified insolvency procedures are initiated in respect of
the licensee or its assets.  NIE’s licences may also be revoked if
Viridian becomes insolvent or ceases to have control 
of NIE.
Price controls
NIE’s regulated businesses are subject to price controls defined in
formulae, set out in the Licence, which limit the revenues they may
earn and the prices they may charge.  The principles of price
regulation employed in the relevant licence conditions reflect the
general duties of NIAER and DETI under the Orders including the
requirement to have regard to the need to enable licensees to
finance their authorised activities.  The revenues of T&D, PPB, SONI
and NIE Supply are each subject to controls which are periodically
reviewed by NIAER.
If the amount of revenue recovered in any one year exceeds or falls
short of the amount allowed by the price control formula, a
correction factor operates in the following year to give back any
surplus with interest, or to recover any deficit with interest, as
appropriate.  A surplus is referred to as an over-recovery and a
deficit as an under-recovery.
Charges for the use of the transmission and distribution system are
subject to a price control formula consisting of a fixed component
and a variable component which depends on the volume of units
transmitted and distributed.  Each component is controlled by a RPI-
X formula (where X is set at 5% under the current price control).
This has the effect (subject to volume changes) of reducing the
allowed revenues by 5% in real terms in the second and each
subsequent year of the current price control period.  Income from
certain other T&D services, such as connection charges, is excluded
from the price control.  The current T&D price control is effective
until 31 March 2007 and is scheduled to be reviewed and reset with
effect from 1 April 2007.
The PPB price control fixes the maximum revenue which PPB may
recover from sales of wholesale electricity to suppliers (including NIE
Supply).  In addition to recovery of its electricity purchase costs, the
price control gives PPB a minimum revenue entitlement with
additional entitlement from increased trading activity.  The current
PPB price control, which was due to expire in March 2005, has
been extended to March 2006. 
SONI’s price control principally covers the cost of system support
and market operator services as well as its own operating costs.  A
proposal has been submitted to NIAER for the price control to be
extended from March 2005 to March 2008.
NIE Supply’s price control allows it to pass through to customers
those costs which are separately regulated (principally relating to the
cost of purchasing electricity at the BST from PPB and payment to
T&D for use of the transmission and distribution system).  Regulated
income associated with NIE Supply’s other costs is subject to a RPI-
X formula (where X is set at 3% under the current price control).
Two thirds of NIE Supply’s income is fixed while the other third
varies according to the number of customers supplied by the
business.  The current price control, which has been extended from
31 March 2005 to 31 March 2007, requires NIE Supply to
undertake a range of social and environmental activities including:
the installation of further keypad meters; further energy efficiency
measures to deliver £6m of lifetime savings; and certain actions to
stimulate the development of micro-renewable generation. 
Republic of Ireland
The principal legislative instruments governing the regulation of the
energy sector in the RoI are the Electricity Regulation Act 1999 (the
1999 Act), the European Communities (Internal Market in Electricity)
Regulations 2000 and 2005, the Gas (Interim) (Regulation) Act
2002 (the 2002 Act) and the European Communities (Internal
Market in Natural Gas) (No. 2) Regulations 2004.  
In addition, the energy sector in the RoI is subject to EU legislation
relating to the environment, competition and the completion of the
EU single market. 
The regulators
Overall policy responsibility for the energy sector lies with the
Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources (the
Minister).  In this capacity, the Minister is advised by the Department
of Communications, Marine and Natural Resources (DCMNR) and a
range of other statutory bodies including CER and Sustainable
Energy Ireland.  CER is the national regulatory authority for the
energy sector.  CER was established as regulator of the electricity
sector by the 1999 Act and was subsequently vested 
with regulatory authority over the downstream gas sector by the
2002 Act.
The functions of CER include: advising the Minister; licensing
market participants; the general supervision and enforcement of the
licensing regime; the regulation of third party access and network
tariffs in both the gas and electricity sectors; the setting of gas and
electricity market rules; and setting public electricity supply tariffs
and residential gas tariffs.  DCMNR’s functions include drafting
legislation, advising the Minister on issues of energy policy and
promoting renewable energy. Operating Review 10
The regulators’ objectives and duties
The principal objective of CER in carrying out its functions in relation
to energy is to protect the interests of energy consumers, wherever
appropriate by promoting effective competition between persons
engaged in, or in commercial activities connected with, the
generation, transmission or supply of electricity and the
transportation and supply of natural gas.  CER has a duty to carry
out its functions in a manner which does not discriminate between
market participants and protects the interests of customers.   
Competition in electricity generation and supply
The principal rules for trading electricity in the RoI are contained in
the trading arrangements set out in the Trading and Settlement Code
issued by CER.
All customers in the RoI are eligible to be supplied by any licensed
supplier or ESB.  There are four types of licence: transmission,
distribution, supply and generation.  Licences regulate the economic
behaviour of licensees; set a framework for competition in generation
and supply; underpin the arrangements relating to security of
supply; and protect the technical integrity of the system.  
Huntstown 1 holds a generation licence and Energia holds a 
supply licence.
Competition in gas supply
The principal rules for shipping natural gas in the RoI are contained
in the Bord Gais Eireann Code of Operations.  Huntstown 1 and
Energia have each entered into a framework agreement binding
them to this code and are entitled to ship gas in the RoI.  Energia
holds a gas shipping/supply licence and is licensed both to ship gas
to Huntstown as well as to supply eligible gas customers.  The gas
market in the RoI is not yet fully open to competition with domestic
customers supplied by Bord Gais Eireann.  Full market opening is
scheduled for October 2005.
Business Reviews
T&D
Background information
The T&D business comprises the planning, development,
construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission and
distribution network which is used to convey electricity from
generating stations in Northern Ireland to customers' premises.  The
T&D business derives its revenue principally through use of system
charges levied on suppliers.
The T&D network comprises a number of interconnected networks
of overhead lines and underground cables which are used for the
transfer of electricity to customers via a number of substations.
There are approximately 2,100km of the transmission system, of
which some 80km are underground; and approximately 42,900km
of the distribution system, of which some 13,100km are
underground.  At 31 March 2005, c758,000 customers were
connected to the distribution system.
Financial performance
T&D revenues (based on regulated entitlement) decreased by £2.0m
due to lower price control revenues together with new arrangements
for funding energy efficiency projects which were previously funded
via T&D’s use of system charges.  These decreases were partly offset
by increased revenues associated with the recovery of market
opening costs.  Based on regulated entitlement, T&D made profits of
£71.4m compared to £73.9m last year.  This reflects the reduction
in price control revenues together with a higher depreciation charge
and an increase in provisions required for further employee
reductions, offset by reductions in operating costs.  Areas in which
reductions in operating costs were achieved included lower staffing
levels and decreases in information technology and premises costs.  
Operational performance
The focus within T&D continues to be on customer service and
efficiency.  The business has been investing in Six Sigma training
and methodology since 1999 as a mechanism for analysing and
redesigning its processes to achieve improved service quality and
lower costs.
At the beginning of the year T&D launched a programme to simplify
the service processes between T&D and Powerteam.  This has
established a platform for the delivery of further efficiencies
including the employment of fewer external contractors with more
work being undertaken by the existing internal workforce.
In January and February 2005, the T&D network successfully
withstood severe adverse weather conditions.  The 33kV network
and the main lines forming the “backbone” of the 11kV network
performed particularly well, validating the current investment
strategy for the high voltage network.  At one stage during these
incidents, some 950 of the Group’s employees were mobilised.
Supplies to over 90% of customers affected were restored within 
24 hours.
Excluding the impact of this severe weather, average customer
minutes lost per customer connected reduced to 76 (2004 - 90).
T&D’s regulatory framework includes formal standards of
performance for customer service.  All overall standards were
achieved.  There was one default against guaranteed standards
(2004 - 4) and the number of substantiated GCCNI complaints
reduced to 27 (2004 - 64).  
T&D continues to make substantial investments in its infrastructure
assets.  Network capital expenditure was in line with the regulatory
allowance which provides for a programme totalling £257m (after
customer contributions and at 2004/05 prices) over the five year
period to March 2007.  Total capital expenditure, including
expenditure on customer service systems, other non-network assets
and new systems required to support market opening in Northern
Ireland, was £72.5m (2004 - £66.4m) before customer contributions
and £56.7m (2004 - £53.2m) after customer contributions.  NIAER
has agreed that approved expenditure on systems associated with
market opening in Northern Ireland will be recovered over five years
and will earn the regulated rate of return of 6.5% pre-tax real. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Operating Review 11
PPB/SONI
Background information
PPB
PPB was established to administer the long-term power purchase
contracts which were put in place with the purchasers of the power
stations at privatisation of the industry in 1992.  
Since then, there have been a number of changes to those contracts
and some of the contracts have been terminated.  The current
contracted capacity is 1,532MW comprising:
• Kilroot - 578MW (520MW coal/oil, 58MW gasoil); these
contracts expire in 2024 but are cancellable by NIAER 
from 2010;
• Ballylumford - 896MW of which the 600MW CCGT plant
contract expires in 2012 (although PPB has options to extend);
the 116MW gasoil contract expires in 2020 (but is cancellable
by NIAER from 2010); and the 180MW steam plant contract
expires in 2012 (but is cancellable at PPB’s option from
October 2005); and
• Coolkeeragh - 58MW (gasoil); this contract expires in 2020 but
is cancellable by NIAER from 2010.
PPB also has contracts with renewable generators for approximately
39MW secured under the Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation (NFFO) Orders.
These contracts expire between 2009 and 2013;  PPB also holds a
125MW contract for capacity on the Moyle Interconnector expiring 
in 2007.
In 2003, PPB agreed to sell 170MW of capacity to ESB in the RoI
through the North-South interconnector, having contracted to
purchase this capacity from generating units at Ballylumford no
longer under long-term contract.  This contract is cancellable from
July 2005 at ESB’s option.
SONI
SONI is responsible for the safe, secure and economic operation of
the transmission system in Northern Ireland.  This includes
despatch of generating plant and managing interconnector transfers
to meet demand for electricity in Northern Ireland. SONI also
undertakes the role of market operator and makes arrangements for
interconnector capacity auctions and the provision of appropriate
trading mechanisms for independent generators and suppliers.
Financial performance
During the year PPB and SONI’s combined turnover (based on
regulated entitlement) increased to £436.3m (2004 - £383.1m) due
to increased tariffs as a result of higher fuel costs and increased
trading income from PPB.  Profits from PPB and SONI combined
(based on regulated entitlement) increased to £6.5m (2004 -
£5.6m) reflecting the increase in PPB’s trading income.
Operational performance
PPB’s total units sold increased by 6% to 8,269GWh (2004 -
7,789GWh).  PPB is incentivised to trade surplus contracted
capacity to second tier suppliers as a means of reducing the impact
of PPB’s power purchase costs on customers supplied under the
BST.  Units traded to second tier suppliers increased by 44% to
2,869GWh (2004 - 1,999GWh). 
In April 2005, ESB commissioned a new independent 400MW CCGT
plant at Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland.  This replaces 120MW of
steam plant at Coolkeeragh previously contracted to PPB that
ceased operation on 31 March 2005.  The new plant is expected to
lead to a reduction in demand for power imported through the Moyle
Interconnector. 
The winter of 2004/05 saw a peak demand for electricity in Northern
Ireland of 1,663MW on 20 December 2004.  This compared to the
previous year’s peak demand of 1,643MW. 
During the year there were no major loss of supply incidents arising
from the non-availability of generating plant. 
NIE Supply
Background information
NIE Supply acquires bulk supplies of electricity from PPB in order to
supply customers who are either not yet eligible for competition or
who are eligible but have not moved to a second tier supplier.  
NIE Supply is also responsible for the billing and collection of
customer accounts.
Financial performance
NIE Supply’s turnover (based on regulated entitlement) decreased to
£424.9m (2004 - £447.0m) primarily reflecting a reduction in its
non-domestic customer base due to market opening.  Profits (based
on regulated entitlement) increased to £6.4m (2004 - £5.8m) 
as a result of reduced operating charges primarily from lower 
staffing levels.
Operating performance
NIE Supply’s customer numbers increased from c735,000 at 31
March 2004 to c746,000 at 31 March 2005 reflecting an increase in
domestic customers from c689,000 to c703,000 offset by a
reduction in industrial and commercial customers from c46,000 to
c43,000.  The decline in industrial and commercial customer
numbers reflects the migration of such customers to second 
tier suppliers.
From 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland are required to
source a proportion of their capacity from renewable generation
(2.5% in 2005/06 increasing to 6.3% in 2012/13).  NIAER and DETI
have agreed that proceeds raised from the sale of NFFO ROCs by
PPB will be used to offset NIE Supply’s compliance costs.  NIE
Supply expects to pass through any residual costs to customers.
As part of its price control, NIE Supply has a target to have 175,000
keypad meters installed by March 2007.  This “pay-as-you-go”
metering enables customers to budget for their electricity payments
whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the standard price and
providing easy to read consumption information.  During the year,
NIE Supply invested a further £2.0m (2004 - £3.2m) in keypad
meters (some 26,000 meters) which brings the total keypad
investment to £11.2m (some 153,000 meters) at 31 March 2005. Operating Review 12
Powerteam
Background information
Powerteam is an unregulated power utility contractor specialising in
the design, construction, commissioning and maintenance of high
voltage transmission and distribution power systems, principally for
T&D, but also for electricity companies and industrial customers in
Great Britain and Ireland.  
Financial performance
Powerteam made good progress during the year increasing its profits
to £4.6m (2004 - £2.4m).  This was driven by growth in its external
business and in particular a full year’s contribution in respect of
network refurbishment carried out under the three year framework
contract awarded in June 2003 by ESB.  While Powerteam derives
the majority of its revenue from the T&D business, external sales
accounted for 41% of total sales in the year.
Operating performance
Powerteam has built its external business while also improving
margins.  External revenues increased to £28.7m (2004 - £23.5m).
The majority of its external work is concentrated in the RoI through
contracts with ESB.  In June 2003 Powerteam was awarded a three
year framework contract to refurbish up to 2,500km per annum of
ESB’s medium voltage network with estimated revenues of €18m
per annum.  The business has also been successful in winning
external contracts in both Northern Ireland and Great Britain
generating revenues of £5.6m (2004 - £4.5m).
VP&E
Background information
VP&E operates as an integrated energy business comprising
generation, through Huntstown 1 in the RoI, together with
competitive supply, through Energia, in both Northern Ireland 
and the RoI. 
Generation
In November 2002 VP&E commissioned Huntstown 1, a 343MW
CCGT plant on the Huntstown site north of Dublin.  In conjunction
with limited recourse financing arrangements put in place in 2002,
Huntstown 1 entered into a long-term fuel purchase and energy sale
agreement (FPESA) with Energia.  Under the FPESA, Huntstown 1
bears the operational risk of converting gas to electricity and Energia
assumes the market risk inherent in the purchase of gas and in the
sale of electricity.
Supply
Energia was established in 1999 as an independent energy supply
company, operating in the competitive energy markets in Northern
Ireland and the RoI.  Since 1999, both markets have been
deregulating and Energia has built market share based on direct
sales to industrial and commercial customers.  
The following table provides an overview of the electricity supply
markets in which Energia operates:
Sites* TWh demand* Market opening
Northern Ireland customers
Large energy users 750 2.6 July 1999 - April 2001
Small to medium sized enterprises 54,000 2.2 April 2004 - March 2005
Domestic 703,000 3.3 April 2007 target
___________ ___________
757,750 8.1
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
RoI customers
Large energy users 800 8.1 February 2000
Small to medium sized enterprises 167,000 8.3 February 2002 - February 2005
Domestic 1,736,0008.6 February 2005
___________ ___________
1,903,800 25.0
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
* estimates at 31 March 2005 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Operating Review 13
Financial performance
VP&E has delivered a strong operating performance.  Turnover
increased from £206.0m to £273.6m due to growth in its customer
base in both Northern Ireland and the RoI together with increased
prices associated with higher fuel costs.  Operating profit increased
by 38% to £25.2m (2004 - £18.3m) reflecting volume growth in
both markets and increased profits in the RoI, offset by lower profits
in Northern Ireland.
Operating performance
Generation
Huntstown 1 continued to perform well achieving availability of 98%
in 2004/05 excluding the effect of the major planned outage which
started on 12 March 2005.  The planned maintenance for which 
this outage was required was successfully completed within the
scheduled period on 18 April 2005.  As at 31 March 2005
Huntstown 1’s gas requirements for 2005/06 were more than 
60% hedged and its requirements for CO
2
emission credits for 
the same year (under the EU ETS which came into effect on 1
January 2005) were fully covered by forward purchase contracts 
of emission credits.
Further investment in generation on the Huntstown site is central to
the Group’s strategy.  Last September the decision to construct a
further CCGT plant at Huntstown (Huntstown 2) with a capacity of
400MW was announced.  This is against the background of
electricity demand projections in the RoI, which indicate a
continuing need for further generating capacity.  Construction is due
to commence this summer with commissioning targeted for autumn
2007.  The new plant is expected to cost approximately €250m
including interest during construction and will be financed initially
from the Group’s existing debt resources.  Once commissioned, the
plant’s output will be sold through Energia, primarily to customers in
the RoI.
For the few months during which Huntstown 2 will be operational in
2007, it will be allocated a share of CO
2
emission credits set aside
specifically for new entrants.  It is expected that the station will
receive a separate allocation of CO
2
emission credits (in line with
other generating plant in the RoI) at the start of phase two of the EU
ETS in January 2008.  
Supply
Energia grew its customer base across Ireland as markets, both
North and South, opened further to competition.  In the RoI, the
remaining SMEs and the whole of the domestic sector became
eligible for competition in February 2005.  In Northern Ireland, the
remaining SMEs became eligible for competition in March 2005 
but the domestic sector is not expected to open to competition 
until 2007.
In the RoI, Energia has maintained its market share of some 33% by
volume of the LEU market, supplying c300 customer sites at 31
March 2005.  In the SME market Energia has increased its market
share to 6% by volume (2004 - 1%), supplying c11,200 customer
sites at 31 March 2005 (2004 - c3,500).  
In the RoI, customer contracts are backed by generation from
Huntstown 1, imports from Scotland and Northern Ireland and the
VIPP wholesale product made available by ESB.  Energia enters into
contracts with customers, on the basis of fixed energy prices with
pass through of use of system charges and levies, primarily on an
annual basis.  The majority of contracts are entered into for the
period November to October.  Energia’s prices are set by reference
to ESB’s tariffs which are published each September for the
following calendar year.  Energia either hedges its power purchase
costs or enters into fixed price contracts, on an annual basis, to
match its fixed energy price contracts with customers. 
Energia plans to grow its customer base in the RoI to match the
output from Huntstown 2.  To facilitate this, Energia has secured two
year capacity over the North-South interconnector linking Northern
Ireland and the RoI through which it will import power from Northern
Ireland.  For the financial year 2005/06, Energia is offering to supply
a number of large customers with both electricity and gas.
In April 2005 the Minister announced that the next market 
support mechanism for renewable generation in the RoI will be
based on a fixed feed-in tariff system.  The support system will be
designed specifically to encourage new capacity development and
will only apply to newly built projects.  Further details of the scheme
are expected to be announced shortly, at which stage Energia will
assess the opportunity.
In Northern Ireland, Energia has maintained its market share of
some 50% by volume of the LEU market, supplying c400 customer
sites at 31 March 2005.  In the SME market, Energia has increased
its market share to 8% by volume (2004 - 4%), supplying c3,400
customer sites at 31 March 2005 (2004 - c2,700).  It is anticipated
that the SME sector will become fully active relatively slowly as SMEs
install the requisite on-line metering.
In Northern Ireland, power is purchased under fixed price contracts
from Scotland through the Moyle Interconnector and from
generation, including renewable sources, in Northern Ireland.
Energia enters into contracts with customers, on the basis of single
or multi-year fixed energy price contracts, with pass through of use
of system charges and levies to customers.  Contracts are generally
entered into for the period April to March.  
Energia plans to retain its customer base against the background of
the recent commissioning of ESB’s new 400MW CCGT plant at
Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland and, to assist this retention, has
secured contracts beyond one year for approximately 40% of its
customer demand.
From 1 April 2005, Energia is required to source a proportion of its
capacity from renewable generation.  Based on existing contracted
renewable generating capacity (33MW), Energia will be compliant
under this obligation until 2010.  Surplus ROCs are expected to
provide an incremental profit opportunity in the short to medium-
term.  Energia’s aim is to negotiate further contracts with windfarm
developers in Northern Ireland, either as offtake arrangements, or
through direct investment where returns are appropriate.
VP&E’s capital expenditure was £7.1m (2004 - £11.8m) primarily
representing: the purchase of a spare set of turbine blades for
Huntstown 1; expenditure by Energia on the installation of new
systems including billing and customer relationship management
systems; and initial expenditure on Huntstown 2. Operating Review 14
Single Electricity Market
The CER and NIAER are working towards the creation of a single
electricity market for the island of Ireland.  Proposals published at
the end of March 2005 envisage a gross mandatory pool, namely a
single wholesale market in which buyers and sellers of electricity
trade all their electricity on a daily basis.  The proposals envisage
some form of payment to reward generators for making capacity
available.  The final design for the market will be published in June
2005, following consultation.  The target date for implementation is
July 2007.
VP&E maintains a watching brief on opportunities to invest in 
further interconnection, both between the RoI and Great Britain
(East-West interconnector) and in any upgrade to the North-South
interconnector between Northern Ireland and the RoI.
Sx3
Background information
Sx3, established in 1997, is a software and IT services company
focused primarily on the UK public sector.  It is organised into three
divisions:
• Applications Solutions, which provides applications software and
related services to local authorities in the UK;
• Managed Services, which provides IT and business process
outsourcing services to the local government, education and
utilities sector; and
• Infrastructure Services, which provides maintenance 
and managed services  to clients across the public and 
private sectors.
Financial performance
Sx3 exceeded its target of a high single digit operating profit margin
delivering a 10.8% margin (2004 - 6.1%).  Turnover increased from
£117.3m to £127.5m and operating profits increased from £7.1m to
£13.8m.  These increases resulted from strong performances by the
company’s Applications Solutions and Managed Services divisions.
Operating performance
Sx3 has continued the trend towards a greater proportion of higher
margin services within its sales mix.  Applications Solutions division
expanded the delivery of its revenue and benefits and housing
software across local authorities, including the award of a five year
contract with Birmingham City Council.  In Managed Services
division, the implementation phase of the Classroom 2000 Lot 3
education contract was completed successfully.  Infrastructure
Services division was successful in gaining a five year contract from
Mitsui Babcock.
Sx3’s capital expenditure was £9.3m (2004 - £23.9m) primarily
representing the remaining expenditure on the Classroom 2000 Lot
3 contract within Managed Services division.
Disposal
The sale of Sx3 to Northgate was completed on 25 April 2005 for
£155m.  Taking account of costs and a pre-sale dividend, the
disposal is expected to result in a book gain of approximately
£100m, which will be reported as an exceptional gain in the
financial year 2005/06.
Other Activities
Profits increased to £2.4m (2004 - £nil) primarily reflecting a
number of property disposals in the first half of the year.  
Remaining property assets capable of being realised have a 
book value of £1.2m.
Employees 
The Group had 2,545 employees at 31 March 2005 (2004 - 2,658)
of whom 1,095 were employees of Sx3.  
Excluding Sx3, 1,224 employees are employed in Northern Ireland
and 226 in the RoI.  Approximately 79% of employees are union
members, and are covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Employee relations in all businesses are positive and constructive.
The Group aims to align its human resources policies with key
business drivers, which include performance and productivity
improvement, cost reduction, business growth and innovation, and
providing value to customers.
Initiatives to support this strategy include a clearly defined and
communicated set of values and behaviours, supported by a 
robust performance management process, together with a strong
commitment to management development and building
organisational competence and succession through the identification
of high potential employees.  The Group seeks to align employee
interests with those of other key stakeholders through an effective
approach to recognition and reward, based on business and
individual performance achievements.   Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Financial Review 15
Summary of Financial Performance
Group turnover increased by 13% from £834.2m to £943.7m
principally due to increased turnover from VP&E and NIE.  Operating
costs increased from £733.4m to £832.7m mainly as a result of
higher energy costs.  Profit before interest and tax as set out in the
Group Profit and Loss Account decreased to £111.0m (2004 -
£114.2m, including an exceptional credit of £13.4m).
NIE’s regulated businesses incurred a net under-recovery of 
£15.8m (2004 - £9.5m) against the income to which they are
entitled under their regulatory formulae.  The recovery of last year’s
under-recovery has been more than offset by factors arising during
2004/05, including:
• fuel and pipeline transportation cost increases significantly
higher than the assumptions built into tariffs;
• increases in provisions for decommissioning costs.  Under the
terms of its licence, NIE is responsible for decommissioning
certain generating stations in Northern Ireland at the end of
their useful lives.  Provisions for the estimated costs of
decomissioning were increased in the second half.  These
costs, which will be incurred in future years, form part of NIE’s
regulated entitlement; and
• other factors, including a higher entitlement due to inflation
above tariff assumptions.
Under UK GAAP the under-recovery reduces NIE's statutory profits.
However, the directors believe that the most appropriate measure of
NIE’s performance in a given year is its profit based on regulated
entitlement.  Adding back the under-recovery of £15.8m together
with adjustments for goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
gives rise to pro-forma profit before interest and tax for the Group of
£129.0m (2004 - £112.5m).  A reconciliation is set out below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit before interest and tax 111.0 114.2
Add back:
-   goodwill amortisation 2.2 2.2
-   under-recovery by NIE businesses 15.8 9.5
Deduct: exceptional credit - (13.4)
___________________
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax 129.0 112.5
The increase in pro-forma profit before interest and tax from
£112.5m to £129.0m is primarily due to increased profits from
VP&E, Sx3 and Powerteam together with profits from 
property disposals.
The Group's net interest charge decreased from £25.0m to £24.4m
reflecting lower net debt.  Net debt at the end of the year was
£359.9m (2004 - £382.7m).
The total tax charge increased to £18.5m (2004 - £14.9m).  The
effective current tax rate increased from 15.6% to 21.7% mainly due
to non taxable exceptional items which arose in 2003/04 and timing
differences in respect of provisions and capital allowances.  These
factors were partly offset by an increase in held-over gains in respect
of property disposals and a zero tax charge in respect of RoI profits
as a result of the availability of capital allowances associated with
Huntstown 1.  The effective current tax rate is net of the release of
£4.5m (2004 - £4.0m) over-provided in previous years.
Basic earnings per share reported in the Group Profit and Loss
Account are 51.0p (2004 - 55.9p, including an exceptional 
credit of 10.7p).  Pro-forma earnings per share increased from
53.3p to 60.8p and are reconciled to basic earnings per share as
shown below:
2005 2004
Basic earnings per share 51.0p 55.9p
Add back:
-   goodwill amortisation 1.7 1.7
-   under-recovery net of tax 8.3 5.0
-   deferred taxation (0.2) 1.4
Deduct: exceptional credit net of tax - (10.7) 
___________________
Pro-forma earnings per share 60.8p 53.3p
The recommended final dividend of 25.34p brings the total 
dividend for the year to 35.18p, a 4.5% increase on 2003/04.  
This dividend is covered 1.7 times by pro-forma earnings per 
share (2004 - 1.6 times). 
Pension Costs
The Group incurred pension charges net of capitalisation of £11.6m
(2004 - £12.3m).  The deficit in the Group’s defined benefit scheme
under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits remained unchanged at
£118.0m net of tax.  As announced on 31 March 2005, the Group
intends to make an additional pension contribution of £25m during
the financial year 2005/06.
FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial Review 16
Cash Flow and Net Debt
Net cash flow from operating activities increased by £27.5m from
£167.3m to £194.8m reflecting improved operating performance
together with the cash flow from property disposals.
Net interest paid decreased by £3.2m from £26.8m to £23.6m
reflecting lower net debt, and tax paid decreased by £0.6m from
£19.2m to £18.6m.
Capital expenditure and financial investment increased by £2.4m
from £80.7m to £83.1m.  This reflects an increase in systems
expenditure by NIE in respect of market opening, expenditure on
spare turbine blades for Huntstown 1 and initial expenditure for
Huntstown 2, offset by a reduction in Sx3’s expenditure on the
Classroom 2000 Lot 3 contract.
No cash flows in respect of acquisitions or disposals have occurred
during the year.  Proceeds from disposals received on the sale of the
Moyle Interconnector and Fleet Solutions resulted in a cash flow
benefit of £135.6m in 2003/04.
Dividends paid increased by £1.9m from £43.6m to £45.5m.  
Net debt reduced by £22.8m from £382.7m at 31 March 2004 
to £359.9m at 31 March 2005.  Interest cover (pro-forma profit
before interest and tax / net interest charge) was 5.3 times 
(2004 - 4.5 times).
Equity shareholders’ funds increased by £24.3m from £277.0m 
at 31 March 2004 to £301.3m at 31 March 2005.  This increase
was primarily due to the retained profit for the year of £21.1m
together with an increase in issued share capital resulting from 
the exercise of options under the Executive Share Option and
Sharesave Schemes.
Return of Capital
On 31 March 2005, as part of the announcement of the Sx3
disposal, the Company outlined its intention to make a one-off return
of capital to shareholders of around £100m representing
approximately 10% of its market capitalisation.  It has been decided
to effect this through a B share scheme (accompanied by a share
consolidation), under which all shareholders will be treated equally
and will be able to elect to receive their payment as a dividend or
through the redemption of B shares.
Financing
Role of Treasury
The role of the Group's centralised treasury operation is to manage
liquidity, funding, investment and the Group's financial risk,
including risk from volatility in currency, interest rates, commodity
prices and counterparty credit risk.  The treasury operation is not a
profit centre and its objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.  It
operates within policies and procedures approved by the Board and
overseen by the Group Finance Director.  
The treasury operation employs a continuous forecasting and
monitoring process to ensure that the Group complies with its
banking and other financial covenants.  Treasury operations and
future treasury requirements are identified in a monthly treasury
report to the Group Finance Director.  
Liquidity and interest rate risk
The Group's policy is to finance its operations primarily through a
mixture of retained earnings and medium to long-term loans and
bank debt.  Borrowings are controlled and approved centrally by the
treasury operation.  Medium to long-term borrowings are
denominated in Sterling and Euro and bear a mixture of fixed and
floating interest rates.  Interest rate exposure on borrowings is also
managed, where appropriate, by the treasury operation through the
use of financial instruments.  The Group's policy is to target a ratio
of 50% fixed rate debt to 50% floating rate debt within a range of
one third to two thirds either way.  The policy permits the exclusion
of fixed rate project finance debt in the calculation of the ratio and
on this basis the ratio at 31 March 2005 was 58% fixed rate debt
and 42% floating rate debt.  Including fixed rate project finance
debt, the ratio was 70% fixed rate debt and 30% floating rate debt.
The Group's policy is to maintain an appropriate spread of maturity
to ensure continuity of funding.  At 31 March 2005, 2% of its
borrowings were due to mature in less than one year, 38% in more
than one year but less than five years and 60% in more than five
years.  The Group manages its funding profile through a
combination of long-term capital market funding and medium to
long-term committed bank facilities and short-term uncommitted
bank facilities.
In November 2004 the Group took advantage of favourable market
conditions to renew its revolving credit facilities ahead of maturity in
November 2005.   The new agreements comprise revolving credit
facilities of £150m and £75m for Viridian and NIE respectively.
Each facility matures in November 2009 with an option to extend for
two years.
At 31 March 2005 the Group had undrawn committed facilities of
£185.6m (2004 - £177.1m) and uncommitted facilities of £31.0m
(2004 - £31.0m). Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Financial Review 17
Foreign currency risk
The Group's treasury policy is to identify foreign exchange 
exposures with a value equivalent to or greater than £0.5m with the
percentage level of hedging dependent on the specific project.  A
high proportion of the Group’s income and expenditure is
denominated in Sterling; however both VP&E and Powerteam receive
income and incur expenditure in Euro.  As the Group continues to
undertake operational activities in the RoI, exchange rate exposures
are identified, monitored and hedged through the use of financial
instruments (mainly forward currency contracts and swap
arrangements) in accordance with its treasury policy.
Commodity risk
The Group’s policy is to hedge the level of commodity risk exposure
deemed appropriate on a project specific basis.  VP&E is exposed to
changes in the price of gas purchased for the operation of
Huntstown 1 and, to a lesser extent, the price of CO
2
emission
credits.  During the year VP&E employed financial commodity 
swaps to hedge gas price exposures identified.  At 31 March 2005,
more than 60% of VP&E’s forecast gas requirements for 2005/06
were hedged.  At the same date VP&E’s requirements for CO
2
emission credits for the same year were fully covered by forward 
purchase contracts.
Credit risk
The Group considers that it is not exposed to major concentrations
of credit risk.  However the Group may be exposed to credit related
loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties under
financial instruments.  The Group does not anticipate any non-
performance given the high credit ratings of the established financial
institutions that comprise these counterparties.  The Group controls
credit risk arising on financial instruments by only transacting with
bank counterparties rated investment grade and above. 
Information on financial instruments is set out in note 31 to the
accounts in compliance with FRS 13 Derivatives and Other 
Financial Instruments.
Accounting Developments
International Financial Reporting Standards
In June 2002 the EU adopted regulations which require that
consolidated accounts of listed companies in the EU should, from
2005, be presented in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Group’s first audited financial
statements to be prepared under IFRS will be for the year ending 31
March 2006.
The Group’s preparation for implementation of IFRS started in 2003.
A project team was established to consider all implementation
aspects, including changes to accounting policies and the impact on
systems.  This work is substantially complete and the Group is well
prepared for the transition.  
IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards, allows exemptions from the application of certain IFRS to
assist companies with the transition process.  The Group intends to
adopt the following permitted transitional options:
• International Accounting Standard (IAS) 19 Employee Benefits:
all cumulative actuarial gains will be recognised in reserves at
the transition date (1 April 2004);
• IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: IFRS 2 will be applied in respect
of all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that
were unvested at the transition date;
• IFRS 3 Business Combinations: business combinations prior to
the transition date will not be restated; and
• IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates: the
foreign currency translation reserve will be set to zero at the
transition date.
Brief explanations of the main IFRS which have an impact on the
Group are given below:
• IAS 19 Employee Benefits: requires the Group to recognise the
defined benefit pension scheme deficit as a liability on the
balance sheet;
• IAS 12 Income Taxes: prohibits the discounting of deferred tax
liabilities which had been the Group’s policy under UK GAAP;
• IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments:
requires the fair value of derivatives to be accounted for as
assets or liabilities on the balance sheet;
• IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date: prohibits the
recognition of proposed dividends until they are declared 
and approved;
• IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: requires the fair value of share
options and other share based payments granted to employees
to be recognised in the profit and loss account; and
• IFRS 3 Business Combinations: prohibits the amortisation of
goodwill and instead requires an annual impairment review.
The Company’s preliminary announcement of results on 17 May
2005 included an unaudited statement showing the impact of 
IFRS on earnings per share for the year ended 31 March 2005 
and shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004.  
The preliminary announcement can be viewed on the 
Group’s website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk).
The Group will continue to review and monitor developments in IFRS
reporting prior to the full adoption of IFRS for the year ending 31
March 2006.  The transition arrangements for the Group’s
implementation of IFRS reporting will be finalised having considered
the impact of any new developments and guidance issued by the
relevant standard setting bodies. Corporate Governance 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council issued the revised
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code) to replace the
Combined Code issued in 1998.  This statement, together with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report, describes how, during the year
ended 31 March 2005, the Company has applied the main and
supporting principles of good governance and has complied with the
provisions set out in the Code. 
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the
Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Board
During the year, the Board comprised the Chairman, three
independent non-executive directors and three executive directors
thus maintaining an appropriate balance of independence,
experience and skills.  There have been a number of changes to the
Board during the year.  Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005
after serving six years as Chairman and Dipesh Shah, a non-
executive director since November 2003, was appointed non-
executive Chairman on 1 May 2005.  Desmond Smyth, the Senior
Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, retired
on 28 February 2005 after serving nine years as a non-executive
director.  Mike Toms was appointed Chairman of the Audit
Committee from 1 March 2005.  Duncan Lewis, a non-executive
director since February 2002, became Senior Independent Director
from 1 March 2005.  
Since 1 May 2005, the Board therefore comprises a non-executive
Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and three
executive directors.  It is recognised that, from that point, the
composition of the Board is not in compliance with provision A.3.2
of the Code which provides that half of the Board, excluding the
Chairman, should be independent, and provisions B.2.1 and C.3.1
of the Code, which provide that the Remuneration Committee and
Audit Committee should comprise three independent non-executive
directors.  While the Board considers that, for its size, its
composition continues to reflect a substantial degree of
independence, the Nomination Committee has commenced a
process for the appointment of an additional non-executive director.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the non-executive directors is
currently independent under the criteria set out in the Code.  The
Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is
satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as non-executive
directors of the Company.  All directors bring an independent
judgement to bear on the issues the Board considers.  The wide
ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors
ensure that they can contribute significantly to the Board and,
specifically, engage in constructive debate and challenge
management in relation to both the development of strategy and the
performance of the Group against the goals set by the Board.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and the Group Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing
and agreed by the Board.
Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first
Annual General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment.  All
directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM
at least every three years.  Duncan Lewis, last re-appointed by
shareholders in 2002 following his initial appointment, will seek re-
appointment at the forthcoming AGM.  His biographical details are
set out on page 6.  
The directors have direct access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures
are observed.  The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for
the Board as a whole.  Independent professional advice may also be
taken, at the Company’s expense, by directors in the furtherance of
their duties.  
Newly appointed directors undergo a structured induction
programme, including site visits, to ensure that they have the
necessary knowledge and understanding of the Group and its
activities.  Continuing development is provided through briefing
sessions in the course of scheduled Board meetings and 
other briefing opportunities, covering business specific and 
broader issues.
Board Proceedings
In order to ensure effective control of the Group, the Board reserves
certain matters for decision to itself.  These include:
• long-term objectives and strategy;
• business plans and budgets;
• internal control arrangements;
• announcement of results and approval of annual report and
accounts;
• dividend policy;
• Board committees and their terms of reference;
• major capital expenditure;
• significant Group policies; and 
• acquisitions and divestments.
The Board manages these matters at its regular Board meetings and
strategy days.  Briefing papers are provided to directors several days
in advance of meetings.  Each meeting reviews financial and
business performance against the budget and plans approved by the
Board.  It also receives reports and presentations from the
businesses and minutes and/or oral reports of Board Committee
meetings.  This ensures that all directors are aware of, and are in a
position to monitor effectively, the Group’s operations and current
issues.  Other specific business, which needs to be addressed
between scheduled Board meetings, is dealt with at special Board
meetings, often by conference telephone.    The Chairman meets
the non-executive directors informally, without executive directors
being present, at least once during the year.  These meetings and
other regular informal discussions create the opportunity for valuable
input from the non-executive directors. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Corporate Governance 19
To ensure that its broad range of responsibilities is managed
effectively and in an appropriate manner, the Board has established
a number of committees.  These are the Executive Committee,
Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination
Committee.  The Board has adopted terms of reference for each
Committee and these are available on request from the Company
and on the Group’s website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk).
Executive Committee
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading, managing and
controlling the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to those
matters reserved for decision by the Board.  He chairs the Executive
Committee, which is authorised, subject to the powers delegated to it
and subject to reporting its significant decisions to the next Board
meeting, to take whatever management action it considers necessary
to safeguard the interests of the Company and to further the strategy,
business objectives and targets established by the Board.  During
the year, the Executive Committee comprised the three executive
directors, Ian Thom, Company Secretary and Laurence MacKenzie,
Managing Director of T&D and Powerteam.  There were 10
scheduled meetings and a number of additional meetings to
consider specific issues.  The Chairman may attend these meetings
at his discretion.  The key responsibilities and tasks delegated to the
Committee include:
• implementing Board policy;
• ensuring effective performance and co-ordination of the Group’s
business activities;
• overseeing financial and operational performance, including
health and safety and environmental performance;
• monitoring and implementing improvements in financial
performance;
• approving expenditure and other financial commitments as
delegated by the Board;
• considering major changes in organisational structure; and 
• approving appointments to boards of subsidiary companies.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Duncan
Lewis (Chairman), Mike Toms, Dipesh Shah and Desmond Smyth
(until his retirement in February 2005).  On his appointment as
Chairman on 1 May 2005, Dipesh Shah stood down from the
Committee.  The Committee’s function is to determine remuneration
policy and specific remuneration packages for executive directors,
the Chairman and the Company Secretary, including, where
appropriate, pension arrangements and service contracts, and
recommending and monitoring the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management.  The Committee consults with
the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the other executive
directors’ and the Company Secretary’s remuneration.  The activities
of the Committee, remuneration policy and the remuneration of
directors, are described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 28.
Nomination Committee Report
During the year the Nomination Committee comprised Philip
Rogerson (Chairman), Duncan Lewis, Dipesh Shah, Desmond Smyth
(until his retirement in February 2005), Mike Toms and Patrick
Haren.  It has a remit to:
• consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new
appointments of directors having regard to the overall balance
and composition of the Board; 
• consider succession planning; and
• make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-
appointment of any non-executive director following conclusion
of his or her specified term of office. 
During the year the Committee, led by the Senior Independent
Director, recommended to the Board the appointment of Dipesh
Shah as Chairman, following the announcement of Philip Rogerson’s
retirement.  As a result of its deliberations the Committee considered
that Dipesh possessed the qualities required to fulfil the role of
Chairman of the Board and was delighted when he agreed to 
the appointment.  Given the recentness of his appointment as a
non-executive director, the Committee did not consider it necessary
to re-engage executive search consultants for that appointment.
Dipesh Shah abstained from the Nomination Committee’s
recommendation to the Board on his appointment as Chairman.
During the year a description of the role and capabilities for the
appointment of a new non-executive director was prepared and the
Committee appointed executive search consultants to identify and
propose candidates with a view to maintaining the balance of skills
and abilities on the Board and to provide an opportunity to enhance
membership of the Board’s committees.  It is anticipated that the
Committee will recommend the appointment of a new non-executive
director during the financial year 2005/06.
Audit Committee Report
During the year the Audit Committee comprised Desmond Smyth (a
chartered accountant, and Managing Director of Ulster Television plc
until 1999, who had chaired the Committee continually from 1996 to
his retirement in February 2005), Duncan Lewis, Dipesh Shah and
Mike Toms.  Mike Toms has chaired the Committee since 1 March
2005.  On his appointment as Chairman of the Board, on 1 May
2005, Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee.  The Board 
is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent
and relevant financial experience.  Biographical details of the current
members of the Audit Committee are provided on page 6. Corporate Governance 20
The external auditors (Ernst and Young LLP), the internal auditors
(PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), the Chairman, the Group Finance
Director and other executive directors may attend meetings at the
invitation of the Committee.  The Committee’s remit is to:
• monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance; 
• review significant financial reporting issues and judgements
which they contain;
• review accounting policies;
• monitor and review the effectiveness of internal controls and the
Group’s risk management system;
• monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit
function;
• oversee the relationship with the external auditors; and
• make recommendations on these matters to the Board 
for decision.
During the year, each meeting of the Committee received a report
from the Risk Management Committee covering its review of
business risk registers and steps taken to enhance further the risk
management framework within the Group.  The internal auditors
provide each meeting of the Committee with a report covering risk
assurance and updates on work carried out under the internal audit
plan.  The external auditors provide the Committee with reports on
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.  During the year,
the Committee considered progress reports from the project team on
the planned implementation of IFRS.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the
appointment of internal and external auditors and their remuneration
and determines their terms of engagement.  The Committee has
carried out an assessment of the external auditors’ independence
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process,
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory
requirements and in line with the guidance set out in the Smith
Guidance on Audit Committees.  The results of the assessment were
reported to the Board.  A policy is in place on the employment of
former employees of the external auditors.
The Board’s policy on the supply of non-audit services by the
external auditors specifies areas of non-audit work that can be
carried out by the external auditors and the financial thresholds
above which non-audit work requires the approval of the Board.
Any individual fees in relation to non-audit services in excess of 50%
of the annual audit fee and/or any excess of the aggregate fees for
non-audit services above 100% of the annual audit fee require
Board approval.  Within these parameters, where it is generally
considered reasonable that the external auditors undertake non-
audit services for sound commercial and practical reasons without
inhibiting their objectivity, then engagement is permitted.  Such
services include independent certification, reporting for Stock
Exchange purposes and taxation.  The cost of services provided by
the external auditors during the year is detailed in note 4 to the
accounts.  Much of the non-audit cost was associated with planning
for the introduction of IFRS and ongoing taxation services.  During
the year the Board gave approval for the external auditors to provide
taxation and assurance services in relation to the disposal of Sx3.
Involvement by the external auditors in these areas was considered
appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the Group.  
During the year the Committee reviewed the Group’s
“whistleblowing” arrangements, whereby employees may raise
concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and
other matters and have them investigated.
Attendance at Meetings
The following table shows the number of, and each individual member’s attendance at, meetings of the Board as well as of the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year:
Director Patrick Patrick Duncan Harry Philip Dipesh Desmond Mike
Bourke Haren Lewis McCracken Rogerson Shah Smyth
1
Toms
Committee Membership (N) (N, R*, A) (N*) (N, R, A) (N
1
, R
1
, A*
1
) (N, R, A*
2
)
(* denotes chairman)
Board 10 10 10 10 10 9 8 10
(10 meetings)
Nomination 33 2333
(3 meetings)
Remuneration 9 978
(9 meetings)
Audit 3 3 3 2
(3 meetings)
N - Nomination Committee
1
Retired in February 2005
R - Remuneration Committee
2
Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in March 2005
A - Audit Committee Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Corporate Governance 21
Board Performance Evaluation
The Board has established a formal process to evaluate its own
performance annually.  This process was first undertaken in the
autumn of 2004 and conducted by the Company Secretary.  Each
Board member and the Company Secretary completed a
questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Board and the Chairman.
In addition, Board Committee members completed a questionnaire
on each Committee’s performance.  The Senior Independent
Director also met separately with the non-executive directors, taking
into account the views of the executive directors, to discuss the
performance of the Chairman.  Based on the responses to the
questionnaire and these meetings, a report was considered by the
Board, and individual Committees as appropriate, and the specific
actions identified have been implemented to ensure continuous
improvement in Board performance.  
Communications with Shareholders
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have
regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and
analysts.  The Chairman introduces the presentation of the
Company’s interim and preliminary results to analysts and investors
and also meets with major shareholders from time to time.  In
addition, the Chairman has advised major shareholders, in writing, of
his availability (along with that of the Senior Independent Director
and newly appointed non-executive directors) should there be issues
which the shareholders may wish to discuss.  The Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee consulted with major shareholders on
proposed changes to executive directors’ remuneration policy.
To ensure that the Board is informed of shareholder views it receives
regular feedback reports from analysts and major shareholders,
assimilated by the Company’s brokers and financial PR consultants,
in particular following presentations and meetings on the publication
of financial results.  Analysts’ notes are provided to the Board on a
regular basis. 
The principal method of communicating with the majority of
shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts or Annual
Review and Summary Financial Statement and the Group’s website
(www.viridiangroup.co.uk) which contains details of financial
presentations to major shareholders and other information about the
Group.  All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM.
All directors were present at the 2004 AGM and all intend to be
present at the 2005 AGM to answer shareholders’ questions.
Internal Control
Turnbull compliance
The Board has fully implemented the Turnbull Guidance “Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.  The Board’s
monitoring of controls covers a wide range including financial,
operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the Group's significant risks.  This process has been in place for the
year ended 31 March 2005 and up to the date of approval of the
Annual Report and Accounts, accords with the Turnbull Guidance
“Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
During the year, work has continued through the internal control 
and risk management process to deal with areas of improvement
which come to management’s and the Board’s attention.
Businesses are required to maintain risk registers and review 
them on a regular basis. 
Risk management
The Group’s strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, which
effectively manages exposures related to the achievement of
business objectives.  The Risk Management Committee, chaired by
the Group Finance Director, comprises a number of senior managers
from across the Group and meets monthly to assist the Board in
fulfilling its risk management and control responsibilities.  The
Committee reviews the level of exposure to individual risks and its
acceptability within the policy on risk.  It reports to the Audit
Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board on a regular
basis.  It reviews the risk management process and ensures
appropriate communication between the Board, Audit Committee,
Executive Committee, internal audit and those with responsibility for
risk management issues within the businesses.  Each business has
nominated a risk manager to ensure that the risk management and
internal control systems are regularly reviewed, updated and
embedded into business processes.  The Committee regularly
reviews individual business risk registers as well as registers covering
a number of cross functional areas including group finance, treasury,
regulatory affairs, procurement and information technology.
Business continuity and disaster recovery arrangements are
reviewed annually by the Committee. Corporate Governance 22
The Risk Management Committee has responsibility for monitoring
that businesses comply with the Group’s Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) obligations.  The Committee reviews the
businesses’ CSR strategy and programmes.  During the year, social,
ethical and environmental (SEE) risks were incorporated into each
business risk register.
Risk issues are also addressed at management meetings through
the review of risk registers.  These meetings consider early warning
signs of risks materialising and significant control failings or
weaknesses.  
The Executive Committee and the Board specifically consider the
corporate risk register which sets out those risks which are managed
at a corporate level and/or the management of which is determined
by policy set at a corporate level:
Regulatory risk
In Northern Ireland, the main regulatory risks faced by the Group
relate to the management by NIE of a wide range of regulatory
transactions with NIAER and DETI, including compliance with the
Licence and the impact of price control reviews.  The regulatory
framework within which NIE operates is described in the 
Operating Review.
NIE’s relationship with NIAER and DETI is managed by senior
management and by a dedicated regulatory affairs team through
frequent meetings, informed dialogue and formal correspondence.
The regulatory team also monitors licence compliance and the status
of current regulatory transactions with the regulated businesses.
NIE’s approach to price control reviews is to be pro-active in
promoting approaches that will lead to an agreed outcome.  These
include the extension of price controls in return for undertakings by
the regulated business and adherence to relevant regulatory
precedent and best practice.
In the RoI, the Group is not subject to direct price control.  VP&E,
however, is exposed to the impact of regulatory decisions as well as
changes in legislation and/or regulation which impact its generation
or supply activities.  The regulatory framework in the RoI is
described in the Operating Review.
Through senior management and its regulatory team, VP&E
maintains regular interaction with both CER and DCMNR at a
number of levels.  A pro-active approach is taken to consultations by
CER and DCMNR on matters such as new wholesale trading
arrangements, renewable energy support and tariff setting.
Business performance risk
Business performance risk is the risk that one or more of the
Group’s businesses may not perform as expected either due to
internal factors or due to competitive pressures in the markets in
which they operate.  Performance risks specific to each business are
identified in that business’s risk register and managed at that level.
At the Group level, business performance risk is managed through a
number of measures: ensuring the appropriate management team is
in place for each business; rigorous budget and business planning;
monthly reporting and variance analysis; financial controls; key
performance indicators; and regular forecasting.
Business continuity risk 
The Group has in place measures to manage the risk that one or
more of its businesses sustains a greater than necessary financial
impact through inability to carry on its operations either for a short or
prolonged period.  These include managing the risk of damage to
the T&D network because of adverse weather conditions and the risk
of interruptions to Huntstown 1’s availability.  In general, the risk is
managed through: prudent and safe operational processes; a
focused capital expenditure programme; sound maintenance
practices; and insurance measures such as business interruption
insurance.  A specific emergency plan, regularly reviewed and
tested, exists to address incidents impacting the T&D network.  In
addition, each business maintains a business continuity/disaster
recovery plan which is reviewed and tested annually.
Health and safety risk 
The Group is committed to ensuring a safe working environment.
The risks arising from inadequate management of health and safety
matters are the exposure of employees and third parties to the risk
of injury and potential liability and/or loss of reputation.  These risks
are closely managed by the Group through: the strong promotion of
a health and safety culture; well defined health and safety policies;
and the Group’s health, safety and risk business plan.
Management development
Long-term competitiveness and viability of the business depends on
the Group’s ability to retain or attract personnel of appropriate
quality.  This risk is managed through development plans which are
regularly reviewed and updated.  These are accompanied by the
application of specific policies in areas such as training,
management development and performance management.  Senior
management succession is reviewed by the Board. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Corporate Governance 23
Financial and business control
Strong financial and business controls are necessary to ensure the
integrity and reliability of financial and other information on which
the Group relies for day-to-day operations, external reporting and for
longer term planning.  The Group exercises financial and business
control through a combination of: qualified and experienced financial
teams; detailed performance analysis; established policies in areas
such as treasury and commodity hedging; budgeting and cash flow
forecasting; a fully integrated accounting system; and clearly defined
approval limits.  The internal auditors carry out an internal audit plan
to test the effectiveness of financial and business controls.
Pension risk
The Group is required to manage the risk that the costs of meeting
its pension obligations increase in excess of expectations.  A
significant step towards managing this risk was taken in 1998 when
the Focus (defined benefit) section of the Viridian Group Pension
Scheme (VGPS) was closed to new entrants.  Both the Group and
the trustees of VGPS are looking to reduce risk further through
changes in asset allocation and the introduction of measures such
as currency management.  Specialist actuarial and investment
advice is taken with respect to management of VGPS’s assets and
liabilities.  The Group intends to apply some £25m of the proceeds
from the disposal of Sx3 towards the pension deficit in VGPS.
Strategic planning
The Group faces the risk that it fails to plan appropriately for the
medium to long-term.  This risk is addressed in several ways.  Each
year the five year business plan is reviewed by the Board.  The
Board holds a strategy review, at least annually, to consider the plans
of the key businesses against a background of the strategic and
competitive opportunities and threats faced by the Group.
Investment decisions are accompanied by detailed analysis, both
short and long-term, of the markets in which the Group operates.
Social, ethical and environmental risk
The Group has in place measures to protect against financial and
reputational risk from any failure to manage SEE risks.  In general,
SEE risks are managed through embedding CSR into the Group’s
management processes and core business activities.  Environmental
risk, in particular, is managed through: a detailed environmental risk
register; an environmental action plan; a certified environmental
management system; and identification of potential environmental
exposures.  These matters are monitored by nominated
environmental compliance officers in key parts of the business.
Internal audit
The Group’s emphasis on sound management structures and
policies and procedures is backed up by operational and financial
review mechanisms and an externally resourced internal audit
function, provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  During the year,
the internal auditors have carried out a programme of audits and a
review of the risk management process.  The internal auditors report
to the Executive Committee each month and results of the audits are
reported to management and the Audit Committee.  The internal
auditors carry out follow-up reviews to determine the extent of
implementation of actions that have been agreed by management.
The annual internal audit and risk assurance programme and
significant internal audit findings are reviewed by the Audit
Committee, as are any relevant reports prepared by the 
external auditors. 
Annual assessment
The Board has carried out its annual review of effectiveness of the
system of internal control.  In carrying out this review it considered a
number of key reports.  The Executive Committee reports to the
Board on its assessment of current significant risks.  A report from
the Risk Management Committee verified that each executive
director and senior manager had completed and signed a letter of
representation confirming his or her responsibility in relation to
internal control and the completeness and accuracy of his or her
risk register and risk reporting, disclosing any known material failings
or weaknesses in internal controls.  Reports were also considered
from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on risk management
issues discussed during the year and from the internal auditors on
the risk management process.
The Board regards the development of the system of internal control
as an ongoing process and continues to review and develop the
internal control systems of the Group. Corporate Social Responsibility 24
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
During the year, the Group continued to integrate SEE matters 
into its mainstream management processes, fully embracing SEE
matters in its risk management framework.  The Group’s
commitment to CSR is recognised by its membership of the
FTSE4Good Index Series.
The Group is committed to operating in a socially, ethically and
environmentally responsible manner in every aspect of its business
activities.  The Group aims to be recognised as transparent and
ethical in its dealings and to contribute through its normal business
operations and its community involvement to the general economic
and social well-being and development of the communities in which
it operates.  As part of its commitment to external reporting, the
Group has sought to comply in this report with the disclosure
guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). 
During the year, the Board has taken regular account of the
significance of SEE matters to the Group’s business.  The Board
considers that it has received adequate information to enable it to
identify and assess significant SEE matters which may have an
impact on the short and long-term value of the Group, and the
Board is satisfied that SEE matters are currently managed so as not
to represent a material risk to the Group.  The Board has ensured
that the Group has effective systems for managing SEE related risks
and appropriate targets have been set for the executive directors and
other relevant senior managers, linked to bonus entitlements. 
During the year, the Board reviewed and revised the Group’s CSR
policy and developed a statement of its CSR strategy.  The Group’s
CSR policy is supported by other policies, covering the environment,
health and safety, community involvement and human resources,
including its equal opportunities policy.
The Group’s CSR strategy is to build on current management
processes, in which there already resides a highly developed
awareness of CSR issues, to make the management of CSR part of
the mainstream activity of the business.  A strategic action plan was
put in place identifying and prioritising CSR actions for the year
ended 31 March 2005 and beyond.  The Group Chief Executive is
the Board member responsible for CSR strategy and is assisted by
the Company Secretary and a CSR co-ordinator.  CSR compliance
officers were designated to co-ordinate the individual business units’
responses to SEE matters.  
Specific SEE related matters, such as in the areas of health and
safety, regulation and the environment, are the subject of ongoing
reporting and presentations to the Board.  As part of its strategic
review during the year, the Board received a specific presentation on
CSR.  The Board has reviewed SEE training needs for existing
directors and is satisfied that appropriate needs have been fulfilled,
and has agreed how account will be taken of SEE matters in the
future training of directors.  Board members will receive appropriate
induction in CSR matters when joining the Company.  
The principal mechanism for the management of SEE risks and
opportunities is the Group’s existing risk management framework.
During the year risk registers were reviewed to identify, assess and
make explicit risks that were deemed to have specific SEE/CSR
dimensions.  Consideration was given to any additional actions
required, and CSR themes and priorities were defined and
incorporated in risk registers as appropriate.  The Risk Management
Committee, which is responsible for overseeing compliance with the
Group’s CSR policy, reviewed the key CSR themes and priorities for
each business and reported its recommendations to the Board.  
The corporate risk register was similarly reviewed by the Executive
Committee and the Board on two occasions during the year with
specific emphasis on SEE/CSR dimensions.  
By pro-actively identifying and managing significant SEE related
risks, the Group aims to maintain its commitment to a high standard
of corporate social responsibility.  The following have been defined
by the Board as the principal CSR themes and priorities relevant to
the management of the Group’s exposures to SEE related risks that
may impact upon the short and long-term value of the Group:  
• ensuring the safety of employees, contractors and the general
public through adherence to recognised safety standards, 
and the promotion of a health and safety culture throughout 
the Group;
• maintaining a commitment to a working environment in which
personal and employment rights are upheld, and ensuring
equality of opportunity for all employees and job applicants;
• maintaining a commitment to a working environment which
enables employees to realise their maximum potential and to be
appropriately challenged and fully engaged in the business, with
opportunities for skill enhancement, personal development and
employee share ownership;
• making a positive contribution to the physical environment
through environmentally responsible management and
adherence to relevant statutory and regulatory standards; 
• contributing to a reduction in the impact of energy related
activities on the environment through the promotion and
provision of renewable energy options, environmentally-friendly
energy and energy efficiency measures;
• commitment to NIE Supply’s social action plans, including
attention to the issues of debt prevention, the continued
promotion of keypad meters and provision of services to
customers with special needs;
• continuing to deliver available efficiency improvements and
investing within the limits of price controls to provide the
Northern Ireland community with a safe and reliable electricity
transmission and distribution infrastructure and a quality service
at an affordable price; and
• maintaining a highly ethical approach to regulatory
responsibilities, obligations under licences, public positioning
and marketing of products and services. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Corporate Social Responsibility 25
The Group’s externally resourced internal audit function carried out a
verification of the SEE/CSR disclosures contained in this section of
the Annual Report in recognition of the close alignment between
SEE/CSR and other business risks and to further embed SEE/CSR
into mainstream business processes.
The internal auditors were satisfied that the disclosures are
supported by adequate and appropriate evidence.  Their review
concluded that the Group had appropriately adopted the
requirements of the ABI guidelines on Socially Responsible
Investment, and assigned an overall assurance rating of high.  
In addition, key elements of the Group’s CSR activities are subject 
to specific external verification including ISO 14001 and Investors 
in People (IIP). 
Workplace
The Group is cognisant of its obligations to its employees and
contractors under health and safety legislation.  The Group’s health
and safety policy aims to promote high standards and is supported
by specific safety principles, rules, policies and procedures.  Harry
McCracken, Group Managing Director, VP&E, has responsibility for
health and safety at Board level and he shares that responsibility on
the Executive Committee with Laurence MacKenzie, Managing
Director, T&D and Powerteam.  
The Group health and safety management system is structured upon
the principles of the Health & Safety Executive for Northern Ireland
(HSENI) guidance “Successful Health and Safety Management” and
the Health and Safety Commission guidance “Director’s
Responsibilities for Health and Safety”.  There are 62 safety
representatives and 89 fire wardens trained across the Group.  To
further strengthen the health and safety management system, the
Group has adopted recommendations from a quality safety audit of
T&D and Powerteam carried out during the year by RoSPA (Royal
Society for the Prevention of Accidents).  
Formal processes for accident investigation and incident analysis are
in place.   During the year there was a total of 14 reportable
accidents across the Group compared to 13 in the previous year.
Contractors working on NIE’s electricity network must adhere to the
same safety rules and requirements as Group employees.  There
were no employee or contractor fatalities during the year.  The Group
safety department regularly engages with various relevant
organisations, including HSENI, DETI and the Department of Trade
and Industry.
The Group believes that the pro-active management of illness and
absenteeism is to the mutual benefit of the Group and its employees
and aims to promote a health culture.  The Group uses an
outsourced occupational health service operating on a management-
referral or self-referral basis, as well as a welfare consultant who is
available to provide confidential welfare advice to all employees.
Existing health-related polices cover mental health, HIV infection and
AIDS, alcohol and drug-related problems, smoking and first aid.  In
the year ended 31 March 2005, sickness absence for the Group was
2.89% compared to 2.91% the previous year, below the national
average of 4.0%.  
The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the equal
opportunities policy.  This policy commits the Group to providing
equality of opportunity for all employees and applicants for
employment.  Employment decisions exclude consideration of an
individual’s religious affiliation, political opinion, gender, marital
status, disability, domestic responsibility, race, ethnic background,
sexual preference, irrelevant criminal convictions or any other
personal factor which is not relevant.  Equal opportunities,
harassment and disability policies have been updated to remain
consistent with best practice and changing legislation.  The latest
Group disability survey showed that 2.2% of employees considered
themselves as having a disability.
There were no occasions during the year when the Group was 
found to have failed to comply with equal opportunities legislation.
The Equality Commission commended the Group’s fifth Article 55
Review of Fair Employment for the period May 2001 to May 2004,
carried out in accordance with the Fair Employment and Treatment
Order 1998.  
In addition to formal complaints and grievance procedures, the
Group has 15 trained harassment advisers and a harassment advice
line.  The Group engages with relevant external organisations,
including Opportunity Now, which promotes equality on gender, the
NI Equality Forum, an employers’ forum for sharing knowledge and
best practice on equality issues, the NI Equality Commission and the
Employers’ Forum on Disability.  
The Group has a wide range of family-friendly working arrangements
in place including maternity, paternity, adoption, parental and
dependant leave, a child care scheme, career breaks, job sharing
and flexible working hours.
Eligible employees have the opportunity to participate in employee
share schemes.  A HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave
Scheme has been in place since privatisation in 1993.  In 2002, the
last date of grant, 51% of eligible employees participated in the
scheme.  In February 2005, 59% of eligible employees participated
in the Company’s new Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
Learning and development needs are identified through
performance, planning and review (PPR) processes.  NIE,
Powerteam and the Northern Ireland operations of Sx3 are IIP
accredited, having been re-accredited in July 2003, February 2004
and April 2003 respectively.  
The Group places a significant emphasis on internal
communications.  Employee communications occur through a
variety of channels, including team briefings, employee surveys,
involvement groups, company forums and through interaction and
consultation with trade unions.  Communications are managed at
the individual level and the PPR processes have been designed to
include upward feedback. Corporate Social Responsibility 26
Environment
The environmental policy, which was reviewed and revised by the
Board during the year, commits the Group to protecting the
environment and is designed to ensure compliance with all relevant
legislative and regulatory requirements.  Where practical and
economically viable, the Group seeks to develop standards in excess
of such requirements.  Areas of particular focus include measures to
protect against oil pollution, the responsible management of
emissions and waste, and the promotion of energy efficiency.  
Since June 2001, NIE and Powerteam have been accredited to ISO
14001 and continued certification was approved in November 2004.
Annual objectives and targets are set for NIE and Powerteam in the
environmental action plan.  During the year, risk assessments were
completed for ten 110kV substations, and environmental key
performance indicators were set for all relevant new contractors to
reduce waste to landfill.  NIE and Powerteam have 24 trained
environmental assessors/auditors and 15 audits were completed
during the year.  Following the seventh environmental management
survey conducted by ARENA Network in Northern Ireland in 2004,
the Group attained the top position for the utilities sector, achieving
an overall score of 95.8%.  The sector average was 80%, with an
overall average of 65% for all participating organisations.  The Group
has designated environmental compliance officers for its relevant
operations.  There were no prosecutions for non-compliance with
environmental legislation during the year. 
Huntstown 1 began commercial operation in November 2002 and
operates in compliance with its Integrated Pollution Control (IPC)
licence, with reporting on emissions based on calendar years.
Additionally Huntstown 1 holds emission credits for CO
2
emissions
under EU ETS.  For calendar year 2004, the station’s emissions of
nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and CO
2
were 875 tonnes, 2 tonnes
and 1,018,685 tonnes respectively.  On a day-to-day basis these
recorded emission levels are managed well within IPC licence limits.
During the year, Huntstown 1 has been progressing towards
attaining ISO 14001 for its plant management process.  
NIE manages a £3.8m energy efficiency programme approved by
NIAER and audited by the Energy Saving Trust.  This programme is
aimed at reducing CO
2
emissions and alleviating fuel poverty.  At 31
March 2005 a total of 17 energy efficiency schemes have been
implemented with estimated lifetime reductions of 230GWh in
electricity demand.  This represents an estimated 43,403 tonnes of
CO
2
savings and customer benefits of £15.9m over the lifetime of
these measures.  During the year, projects targeting innovative
technologies such as domestic combined heat and power (CHP)
were initiated.  In addition, through commitments in NIE Supply’s
price control, a further £13m of lifetime savings to customers has
been delivered through investment in energy efficiency measures
since 2000.  NIE Supply has continued to promote EcoEnergy, its
“green” electricity tariff, which currently has 14,024 customers.  
The Group provides financial support to Action Renewables, a joint
venture with DETI aimed at raising awareness and encouraging the
installation of renewable energy technologies in Northern Ireland.  In
September 2004 NIE Supply won the Belfast Business Award for its
work in promoting sustainable energy.   
An ESCo (Energy Services Company) project team has been
established within NIE Supply to oversee sustainable energy
activities, regulated and unregulated, and to consider business
opportunities in this emerging field.  
The NIE Sustainable Management of Assets and Renewable
Technologies (SMART) programme (www.niesmart.co.uk) is part of
the current regulatory framework agreed between T&D and NIAER.
The programme has been developed to encourage environmentally-
friendly approaches to the provision of T&D network infrastructure to
meet customer demand in Northern Ireland.  A total of 25 renewable
programmes and projects is now being funded and managed under
the SMART programme.  Technologies targeted for support include
photovoltaics, solar water heating, biomass, domestic CHP, tidal
power and hydro-electric power, with £1m committed.  In April 2004
the SMART programme won the business category at Action
Renewables’ renewable energy awards. 
Energia continues to promote renewable energy and in November
2004 launched its “total lighting” energy efficiency scheme.  The
available funding has been successfully allocated to 61 projects,
with 59 completed or underway. 
Marketplace
The Group aims to ensure that it is recognised as transparent and
ethical in all its dealings.  A number of policies are in place to
underpin this aim including a whistleblowing policy and a code of
ethics, as well as the Group’s corporate governance arrangements.
The Group’s procurement practices aim to ensure transparency and
fairness in its dealings with suppliers, including a policy to make
payment to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Group subscribes to the Achilles utilities vendor database to
pre-qualify potential suppliers for major contracts; this assessment
includes environmental and health and safety practices.  All
suppliers are pre-qualified on a fair and equal basis.  The Group’s
internal procurement team carries out supplier assessments on other
contracts not processed through Achilles.  This is based on an
assessment of environmental and health and safety practices as
submitted in tender documentation. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Corporate Social Responsibility 27
Community
Through its mainstream business activities and its community
involvement policy, the Group seeks to contribute to economic and
social development and environmental improvements in the local
communities in which it operates, both in Northern Ireland and in
the RoI.  The Group’s community involvement policy is aligned to
three key themes: growth, safety and environment.  
During the year, NIE continued to engage with its community
through an on-going public safety awareness programme, promoting
the importance of electrical safety to farmers, agricultural and
building contractors through the HSENI and NIE farm safety road
show, safety presentations and farm safety leaflets.  In association
with other agencies, including the Department of the Environment,
the Northern Ireland Fire Brigade and the Police Service of Northern
Ireland, the NIE-initiated “Kidzsafe” programme was launched to
raise safety awareness among school children in an effort to reduce
incidences of vandalism and electricity-related injuries to children.
Over 10,000 school children attended presentations under this
safety awareness programme during the year and in support of the
programme, the NIE Kidzsafe website (www.niesafety.co.uk) was 
also launched.   
NIE offers contractors undertaking roadworks a wide range of advice
and assistance to help them avoid its underground cables.  This
includes advice leaflets, videos and diagrams of the underground
electricity network, as well as advising contractors to check NIE’s
website (www.niesafety.co.uk) for additional safety advice.  
The Group recognises the social dimension of debt management
and NIE Supply continues to offer a wide range of payment options
and debt prevention measures.  As part of its price control, NIE
Supply has a target to install 175,000 keypad meters by March
2007.  At 31 March 2005 a total of 152,794 meters were installed.
This “pay-as-you-go” metering enables customers to budget for their
electricity payments, whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the
standard price of electricity, and provides friendly credit and user-
friendly consumption information.  There are over 1,700 outlets in
Northern Ireland from which NIE Supply customers can buy keypad
meter credits, as well as a telephone vending facility.  The energy
efficiency programme, which is targeted at alleviating fuel poverty, is
referred to above.
NIE provides financial and in-kind support for Northern Ireland’s
Energy Efficiency Advice Centres to offer free and impartial energy
efficiency advice to its customers and engages with organisations
including the Fuel Poverty Partnership Group and the Department of
Social Development.  
NIE aims to ensure that its customers receive a quality service at an
affordable price.  By the end of T&D’s third price control period (31
March 2007), T&D prices will have reduced by around 45% in real
terms since privatisation.  T&D’s strong record of cost efficiency,
delivered while improving network performance and performance
against customer standards, is part of its mainstream business
commitment to the community.  Further details on T&D’s operating
performance during the year are outlined in the Operating Review.
NIE offers a number of services to its customers which are promoted
through its codes of practice and through various advice providers,
including Citizens Advice Bureaux, Advice NI and Energy Efficiency
Advice Centres.  The codes are produced in several different
languages.  NIE aims to assist its customers with special needs
through a number of these services.  The total number of customers
using the critical care register is 2,709, with 2,513 on the customer
care register.  At 31 March 2005, 581 customers were users of NIE’s
password scheme, a service which provides customers with
additional proof of identity of agents calling at their homes.
During the year, the Group sponsored various charities and
organisations with sponsorship totalling £123,000.  Employees were
given the opportunity to support the Tsumani disaster appeal
through a one-off “give-as-you-earn” payroll donation and the Group
matched employee donations, as did the NIE Charities Committee,
run by employees.  The total contribution was £18,300.  The Group
also made a donation of £10,000 to the NIE Staff and Pensioners
Charity Fund.  The NIE Charities Committee has been in existence
for almost 20 years and during that time almost £1m has been
distributed to many local charities.  Other examples of community
involvement during the year included:
• The Viridian Growth Fund, which at 31 March 2005, had
invested a total of £1.7m in developing businesses in Northern
Ireland: this fund is supported by private sector investors,
including the Group and VGPS, DETI and the European
Investment Bank with support under the EU Programme for
Peace and Reconciliation;
• The Prince’s Trust, supported through the provision of office
accommodation; and
• Women into Science and Engineering (WISE) Committee in
Northern Ireland, which has been supported for the past 
four years by NIE’s environmental manager, who set up the
WISE NI website (www.wiseni.org) and continues to assist 
in its development.
The Group’s primary responsibility is to its shareholders.  The Group
also recognises a range of other stakeholders, including its
customers and the wider community, its employees, those
representing the environment and its suppliers.  Stakeholder
engagement has been highlighted throughout this report.  In
addition, given the nature of the Group’s business, there is regular
interaction/consultation with NIAER, CER and DETI on mainstream
business issues with SEE/CSR dimensions.  Regular interaction on
similar issues also takes place with elected representatives, GCCNI
and the media.  The Group also liaises with contractors, landowners
and environmental representatives, including the Environment and
Heritage Service when undertaking Environmental Impact
Assessments, which are mandatory for transmission projects.  
The Group’s CSR Policy and other CSR information can be 
found on the Group’s website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk) under
Corporate Responsibility.   Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
This report has been prepared to comply with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 although compliance is 
not required under Northern Ireland legislation. 
Remuneration Committee and Advisers
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) consists solely of
independent non-executive directors and was chaired throughout
the year by Duncan Lewis.  Its other members were Dipesh Shah,
Mike Toms and, until his retirement on 28 February 2005, Desmond
Smyth.  Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee on his
appointment as Chairman of the Board on 1 May 2005.  The
Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive attend certain
meetings by invitation. 
The Committee operates within terms of reference agreed by the
Board.  The Committee’s function is to determine remuneration
policy and specific remuneration packages, including pension
arrangements and service contracts, for executive directors, the
Chairman and the Company Secretary.  The Committee’s role also
includes recommending and monitoring the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management below Board level.  The
Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s website
(www.viridiangroup.co.uk).
Towers Perrin have been independent remuneration consultants
since their appointment by the Committee in October 2003, advising
on all aspects of directors’ remuneration except pensions.  Towers
Perrin also provide advice on senior management remuneration and
non-executive directors’ fees.  Hewitt (formerly Hewitt, Bacon &
Woodrow), the Company’s pensions advisers and actuaries to 
VGPS, advise the Committee on pensions.  The Committee also
consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the other
executive directors’, and the Company Secretary’s, remuneration 
and with the Chairman of the Board on aspects of the Group Chief
Executive’s remuneration. 
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s policy on executive directors’ remuneration for the
year ended 31 March 2005 was that the overall package should be
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality
executives capable of achieving the Group’s objectives and thereby
enhancing shareholder value.
The package consists of basic salary, benefits, performance-related
bonus, a performance share plan and pension benefits, with a
significant proportion based on performance and dependent upon
the achievement of corporate and individual targets.  In setting
performance-related remuneration the Committee has regard to the
provisions set out in Schedule A to the Code.  Consideration is also
given to pay and employment policies elsewhere in the Group.
This report sets out the Company’s policy on executive directors’
remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005 and, so far as
practicable, for subsequent years.  It is proposed to implement new
long-term incentive arrangements during 2005/06, details of which
are provided below.  
Pension arrangements for executive directors are being reviewed
ahead of 6 April 2006 to determine what action may be necessary to
respond to, and where necessary to ensure compliance with, the
Pensions Act 2004 and the Finance Act 2004, in particular with the
introduction of individual lifetime allowances.
There are no plans to change any other elements of remuneration.
However, the Committee considers that a successful remuneration
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future
changes in the Company’s business environment and in
remuneration practice.  Any changes in policy for years after
2005/06 will be described in future Directors’ Remuneration
Reports, which will continue to be put to shareholders for approval. 
Proposed long-term incentive arrangements
During the year, the Committee reviewed the long-term incentive
arrangements for executive directors and senior management in the
light of current best practice and the need to ensure continuing
alignment with the interests of shareholders.  Executive directors
have participated in the Performance Share Plan (PSP) since its
implementation in 2000 while senior management participate in an
Executive Share Option Scheme.  Executive directors and senior
management can also participate in the all employee Sharesave
Scheme and SIP.  In the light of the Committee’s review, shareholder
approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for some proposed
changes to the PSP arrangements and for the introduction of the 
Co-investment Plan (CIP) which would cover executive directors and
certain senior managers.  The existing Executive Share Option
Scheme will continue in use for executives who are not participants
in the PSP or CIP. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Directors’ Remuneration Report 29
The proposed changes to contingent share awards under the PSP
and the basis for the proposed new CIP are as follows:
At present the PSP is based wholly on the Company’s total
shareholder return (TSR), being dividends paid (and assumed to be
reinvested) and change in share price, relative to a group of 22
comparator companies.  As the number of quoted utilities of a size
comparable to the Company’s has reduced significantly over recent
years it has been increasingly difficult to maintain a comparator
group of companies of appropriate size and scope.  It is also
considered that, as the PSP is extended to certain senior managers
below Board level, it is appropriate to include an element of
performance which is more transparently within the participants’
control and aligned to shareholders’ interests.
Under the new arrangements, 50% of a PSP award would be based
on the average return on capital employed (ROCE) achieved by the
Group over a three year performance period.  ROCE would be
calculated as operating profit (based on regulated entitlement 
pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) as a percentage 
of average capital employed.
The Committee has selected ROCE as it believes that this measure
captures both the Group’s business efficiency and its underlying
ability to provide returns to shareholders.  The Committee will review
the appropriate ROCE performance range to be set for each annual
grant of awards to be made under the PSP, taking account of the
future plans and prospects of the business.  Having considered
these factors in respect of awards to be made in 2005, the
Committee believes that an appropriate range for the three year
performance period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2008 would be
13.5% to 14.3%.  In the first three year cycle the minimum level of
ROCE would be 13.5%; at this level the minimum number of shares
would vest; all of the shares would vest if the Company’s ROCE
equals or exceeds 14.3% over the performance period; there would
be a sliding scale of vesting for performance between the minimum
and maximum.
The other 50% of a PSP award would be based on the Company’s
TSR relative to the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding investment
trusts) over a three year period.  As with the current arrangements,
the minimum level of award would vest if the Company’s
performance is at the median level, all of the shares would vest if the
upper quartile is achieved and there would be a sliding scale of
vesting if the Company’s TSR performance was between the median
and the upper quartile of companies within that Index.
For achieving the threshold level of performance, under both the
ROCE and the TSR elements, the percentage of the maximum award
that would vest would be reduced from its current 50% level to
25%.  In this way the PSP would be more highly performance
linked; awards would be at the same level as the current
arrangements for superior performance but significantly lower than
the current arrangements if the Company’s performance was only
around, or just above, threshold levels.
Maximum awards would be for shares with a value equal to one
year’s salary at the date of the conditional award, as under the
current arrangements.
Under the proposed CIP, executive directors and participating senior
managers would normally be allowed to invest in the Company’s
shares for a period of six weeks following the date on which annual
performance bonuses are paid.  The maximum number of shares
that could be acquired under the proposed CIP would be a number
equal in value to the greater of 20% of gross annual salary or 100%
of gross performance bonus received. 
Provided that these shares are retained for a further three years and
provided also that participants remain in employment, they would be
eligible for a matching share award; there would be a minimum
award of one share for every two the participants acquired i.e. a
50% match; the level of match could increase by up to one further
share for every one the participants acquired using the same
performance conditions as those applying under the PSP.  Therefore,
if the maximum level of ROCE was achieved and the Company’s
relative TSR was at or above the upper quartile, there would be a
maximum award of three shares for every two the participants
acquired i.e. a 150% match; there would be a sliding scale of
matching awards to the extent that actual ROCE and TSR
performance was between minimum and maximum levels.
In order to ensure that the assessment of performance is
independent, remuneration consultants will report to the Committee
as to whether the TSR performance criteria have been met.  It is
intended that the Committee will determine whether the ROCE
performance criteria have been met based on the Company’s
audited accounts for the three year performance period.
These proposed long-term incentive arrangements would result in up
to approximately 70% of the total value of each executive director’s
remuneration package (excluding pension and benefits) being
performance-related.  This level of performance-related reward
would however only arise in the event that maximum annual
performance bonus and maximum awards under the PSP and CIP
are achieved.   
The remainder of this section sets out the Company’s policy on
executive director remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Basic salary and benefits
Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually taking account
of mid-market levels amongst FTSE mid-250 companies generally,
with a focus on a group of companies of a similar size in the
electricity, utilities, transport and support services sectors.  
Non-cash benefits include a company car and fuel and private
health insurance. Directors’ Remuneration Report 30
Annual performance bonus
The annual performance bonus is a non-pensionable cash payment
for achieving targets set by the Committee.  The maximum bonus
opportunity for each executive director is 50% of basic salary, with
the level of bonus awarded depending on performance against
challenging corporate and individual targets.  35% is dependent
upon achieving a target pro-forma earnings per share and the
remaining 15% of the maximum bonus is linked to individual targets
agreed for each executive director by the Committee.  These relate
to the achievement of key business objectives, both short-term and
long-term, derived from corporate strategy including the
development of new business opportunities and improvements in
operating efficiencies where appropriate. The Committee reviews
targets and criteria annually to ensure appropriate measurement of
performance.  For the year ended 31 March 2005, the pro-forma
earnings per share target for maximum bonus was exceeded and, as
their individual targets were also achieved, each executive director
was awarded the maximum bonus.
Current long-term incentive arrangements - PSP
As in previous years, awards under the PSP during the year ended
31 March 2005 were linked wholly to TSR.  Contingent share awards
were based on the market value of the Company’s shares at the date
of award, with a maximum value of 100% of basic salary.  The
shares will not normally be released to the participant until the
completion of a three year performance period.  Vesting of awards
depends on the performance of the Company’s TSR compared to
that of a group of utility and industrial and service sector companies
(the Comparator Group) over a three year performance period. 
For contingent share awards made during the year ended 31 March
2005, the Comparator Group companies were:
ARRIVA Kelda
Associated British Ports Mersey Docks
AWG National Express
BAA National Grid Transco
Bristol Water Pennon
Centrica Scottish and Southern Energy
East Surrey Scottish Power
FirstGroup Severn Trent
Forth Ports South Staffordshire
Go Ahead Group Stagecoach
International Power United Utilities
If during the three year performance period a Comparator Group
company is no longer appropriate (e.g. due to de-listing or takeover)
to be included in the Comparator Group, the Committee has
discretion to adjust the Comparator Group.
At the end of the performance period, for subsisting contingent
share awards, actual awards will be determined as follows.  No
award will vest if TSR performance is below that of the median
ranking company in the Comparator Group.  If TSR performance is
equal to that of the median ranking company in the Comparator
Group, the participant will receive 50% of the award.  If TSR
performance is equal to or greater than that of the upper quartile
ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will
receive 100% of the award.  The proportion of the award which the
participant may receive for TSR ranking between the median and
upper quartile of the Comparator Group will be calculated on a
straight-line basis.
The Committee will satisfy itself that the recorded TSR, which is
calculated independently by Towers Perrin, is consistent with the
achievement of commensurate underlying financial performance
before any shares are received by participants.  
Contingent share awards made in 2002, for the three year
performance period ended 31 December 2004, had the potential to
vest during the year.  The Company’s TSR was higher than the
median ranking TSR performance in the Comparator Group.  In
accordance with the terms of the contingent share award the
Committee also considered the Company’s underlying financial
performance over the performance period and was satisfied that no
material discrepancy existed.  As a result, 55.1% of the 2002
contingent share awards vested.
All employee share schemes
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Company’s all
employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
These schemes comprise the Sharesave Scheme, a savings related
share option scheme, and the SIP, under which employees allocate
part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares.  Both schemes
operate within specific tax legislation and, as is normal practice,
there are no performance conditions.
Pensions
Executive directors have a normal pension age of 60 and participate
in the Company’s defined benefit pension scheme.  For executive
directors whose pensionable earnings are capped by HM Revenue &
Customs’ earnings cap on pensionable salary imposed in 1989, the
Complementary Pension Plan (CPP) provides alternative pension
arrangements.  CPP benefits are paid in the form of a lump sum on
retirement.  Annual performance bonuses, incentive scheme
benefits and benefits in kind for which executive directors are
eligible are not pensionable. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Directors’ Remuneration Report 31
Service contracts
All the executive directors have service contracts, dated 3 July 2003,
which expire at age 60 and are terminable on 12 months’ notice by
the Company and six months’ notice by the director.  
Where the Company relieves the director of his duties before the end
of the notice period, the Company is required to continue to pay the
director’s salary and benefits (including pension) for the whole
period.  In the event of contract termination by the employer or the
director within 12 months of a change in control, the director will be
entitled to a compensation payment of 12 months’ basic salary and
benefits, bonus payments and employer’s pension contributions.
These arrangements exclude any awards that may become due
under the long-term incentive arrangements.  
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service
contracts, notice periods or entitlements to compensation on early
termination of their appointment.  They are appointed for fixed terms
of three years and will normally serve no more than three terms.
Their details as at 31 March 2005 are as follows:
Director Letter of Unexpired term
appointment dated
D Lewis 1 February 2005* 34 months
P Rogerson 1 July 2004* 27 months
D Shah 1 November 2003 19 months
D Smyth 1 March 2002* -
M Toms 1 November 2003 19 months
* replaces an earlier letter of appointment
Desmond Smyth retired on 28 February 2005 following completion of
his third term of office.  Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005.
Duncan Lewis will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offers himself
for re-appointment.  Biographical details of all directors can be found
on page 6.
External appointments
The Company recognises the benefits of its directors accepting
appointments as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to accept one such appointment
and the director concerned will retain the fees.  Patrick Haren is a
non-executive director of the economic development agency, Invest
Northern Ireland, and received fees of £10,690 for the year ended 31
March 2005 (2004 - £10,480).
Chairman and non-executive directors 
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee.  The
remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the
Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association, with the
non-executive directors not participating in this process.  During
2004/05 it took the form of a combined fee for attending meetings
and chairing committees as required.  The Chairman’s and non-
executive directors’ fees are reviewed annually with advice from
Towers Perrin.  From 2005/06, non-executive directors’ fees
comprise a basic fee and an additional single fee for the Senior
Independent Director and for directors who chair Board committees.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for
pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the
Group’s bonus or incentive schemes.  
Performance Graph
The graph below compares the value of an investment of £100 in the
Company’s ordinary shares with an investment in the FTSE 350 Index
(including investment trusts) over the five years starting 1 April 2000
assuming that all dividend income is reinvested.  
The FTSE 350 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity
market index in which the Company is a constituent member.  
April
2000
April
2001
April
2002
April
2003
April
2004
April
2005
50
60
70
80
90
110
120
value of hypothetical
£100 holding
Viridian Group PLC
FTSE-350
100
130
140
150
160 Directors’ Remuneration Report 32
Tables 1, 2, 3, 4a and 4b, and related footnotes, contain audited information.
Table 1: Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2005 was as follows:
Basic salary/fees Benefits in kind Performance bonus Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Non-Executive Chairman
P Rogerson 80.0 77.5 - - - - 80.0 77.5
Executive Directors
P Bourke 210.0 202.0 65.7 53.3 105.0 94.9 380.7 350.2
P Haren 315.0 300.0 106.8 90.3 157.5 141.0 579.3 531.3
H McCracken 210.0 202.0 21.9 21.2 105.0 94.9 336.9 318.1
Non-Executive Directors
D Lewis 27.5 25.0 - - - - 27.5 25.0
D Shah 27.5 10.4 - - - - 27.5 10.4
D Smyth 25.2 25.0 - - - - 25.2 25.0
M Toms 27.5 10.4 - - - - 27.5 10.4
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Total 922.7 852.3 194.4 164.8 367.5 330.8 1,484.6 1,347.9
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Dipesh Shah and Mike Toms were appointed as non-executive directors on 1 November 2003.  Desmond Smyth’s term of office ended on 28
February 2005.
The benefits in kind for each executive director comprise the provision of a company car and fuel, private health insurance and the value of
matching shares provided by the Company under the SIP.  Benefits in kind for Patrick Haren and Patrick Bourke also include a discretionary
bonus in respect of the benefit in kind tax liability arising from the CPP.
Table 2: Performance Share Plan
Directors’ interests in the PSP at 31 March 2005
Contingent Share Awards
As at Made Vested Lapsed As at 31 Market price at Market price at 3 year
1 April during during during March date of award date of vesting performance
2004 year year year 2005 (pence) (pence) period starting
P Bourke 39,445 - 21,734 17,711 - 469 768 1 Jan 2002
37,934 - - - 37,934 532.5 1 Jan 2003
- 37,069 - - 37,069 566.5 1 Jan 2004
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
Total 77,379 37,069 21,734 17,711 75,003
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
P Haren 54,584 - 30,076 24,508 - 469 768 1 Jan 2002
56,338 - - - 56,338 532.5 1 Jan 2003
- 55,604 - - 55,604 566.5 1 Jan 2004
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
Total 110,922 55,604 30,076 24,508 111,942
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
H McCracken 39,445 - 21,734 17,711 - 469 768 1 Jan 2002
37,934 - - - 37,934 532.5 1 Jan 2003
- 37,069 - - 37,069 566.5 1 Jan 2004
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
Total 77,379 37,069 21,734 17,711 75,003
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________
Contingent share awards represent the maximum award possible if the performance criteria are met at the end of the three year performance
period.  At the end of the performance period actual awards will be determined as follows.  No award will vest if TSR performance is below
that of the median ranking company in the Comparator Group.  If TSR performance is equal to that of the median ranking company in the
Comparator Group, the participant will receive 50% of the award.  If TSR performance is equal to or greater than that of the upper quartile
ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will receive 100% of the award.  The proportion of the award which the participant
may receive for TSR ranking between the median and upper quartile of the Comparator Group will be calculated on a straight-line basis. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Directors’ Remuneration Report 33
Table 3: Share Options
Directors’ interests in share options held under the all employee Sharesave Scheme were as follows:
As at As at Option Normally
1 April 31 March price exercisable
2004 2005 (pence)
P Bourke 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006
P Haren 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006
H McCracken 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006
No options were granted, exercised or lapsed during the year.  No performance conditions attach to these options.  The aggregate gain on the
exercise of share options during the year was £nil (2004 - £8,067).  The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 March
2005 was 758 pence and the range during the year was 545 pence to 792.5 pence.
Table 4a: Pensions
Age at Increase in Increase in Total accrued 
31 March accrued pension accrued pension pension at
2005 (net of inflation) (including  inflation) 31 March 2005
£000 pa £000 pa £000 pa
P Bourke 48 7 8 32
P Haren 54 12 16 116
H McCracken 55 1 5 140
The pension figures in the above table include, in the case of Patrick Bourke and Patrick Haren, the target accrued pensions under the CPP.
At 31 March 2005 £16,491 p.a. of Patrick Bourke’s pension is due from the CPP and this would be paid in the form of a tax-free lump sum at
retirement of £167,624 (2004 - £124,964).  At 31 March 2005 £71,310 p.a. of Patrick Haren’s pension is due from the CPP and this would
be paid in the form of a tax-free lump sum at retirement of £878,225 (2004 - £743,973).  
Table 4b
Directors’ Transfer value of Increase in transfer Transfer value
contributions for accrued pension value over year less of accrued pension
the year at 1 April 2004 directors’ contributions at 31 March 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000
P Bourke 13 215 97 325
P Haren 15 1,295 315 1,625
H McCracken - 2,013 297 2,310
Transfer values represent a liability in respect of directors’ pensions entitlement, not an amount paid or due to the individual.
Following the 1997 and 2000 actuarial valuations of the VGPS, part of the designated surplus was set aside for distribution to Focus (defined
benefits section) members.  On retirement these funds would be used to provide benefits in addition to those ordinarily provided by VGPS,
subject to HM Revenue & Customs’ limits not being exceeded.  The final payment into these funds was made in May 2003.  As Focus
members, each of the executive directors has designated funds allocated to him by the VGPS trustees for his benefit.  The values of these
amounts as at 31 March 2005 were: Patrick Bourke £19,160, Patrick Haren £27,287 and Harry McCracken £48,375.  These amounts are
not included in the accrued benefits and transfer values quoted above.  Due to the impact of HM Revenue & Customs’ limits, there may be
limited scope to utilise these funds.   Any unused funds would be returned to the general assets of the VGPS. Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Target pension benefits are based on 1/30 of final salary for each year of pensionable service after 1 April 1998, 1/45 of final salary for service
between 1 April 1994 (31 March 1992 for Patrick Haren) and 1 April 1998 and 1/60 of final salary for service prior to 1 April 1994, with
aggregate benefits subject to a maximum pension of 2/3 of final salary less retained benefits from previous UK employments.  Harry
McCracken reached this maximum limit in August 2003 and pensionable service accrual and member contributions ceased from that date.
Pension increases are in line with inflation, with increases above 5% at the Company’s discretion.
If a director takes early retirement without Board consent a pension with actuarial reduction would be payable from age 50.  A pension on ill-
health retirement would be based on potential service to normal pension age.  If the executive dies whilst in service, a lump sum of four times
final salary and a contingent spouse’s pension of 2/3 of the director’s pension (based on service to normal pension age) would be payable. In
the event of a change in control of the Company resulting in early retirement, there would be no actuarial reduction for early payment of
pension over the age of 50. 
Directors’ Share Interests
The directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company (which includes those of their families) are shown below.
Shares
31 March 31 March
2005 2004
P Bourke 14,828 2,000
P Haren 68,132 78,112
D Lewis - -
H McCracken 42,825 62,802
P Rogerson 9,189 9,189
D Shah - -
M Toms 2,000 2,000
The beneficial interests include ordinary shares purchased under the monthly operation of the SIP.  Further ordinary shares were purchased in
April and May on behalf of Patrick Bourke (45 shares), Patrick Haren (45 shares) and Harry McCracken (45 shares).
By order of the Board 
Ian Thom
Company Secretary
17 May 2005 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Directors’ Report 35
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors of Viridian Group PLC present their report and the
Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Results and Dividends
The results for the year ended 31 March 2005 show a profit after
taxation of £68.1m.  An interim dividend of 9.84p per share was
paid on 31 March 2005.  The directors recommend payment of a
final dividend of 25.34p per share resulting in total dividends for the
year of 35.18p at a total cost of £47.0m.
Principal Activities and Review
of Business Developments
The Group’s regulated energy activities of power procurement,
transmission and distribution, transmission system operation and
supply of electricity are carried out through its subsidiaries, NIE and
SONI.  The Group’s unregulated energy activities are carried out
through its subsidiary VP&E which comprises Energia - competitive
market supply, and Huntstown - power generation.  The Group also
provides other business services through unregulated subsidiaries,
notably Sx3 - software and IT services and Powerteam - specialist
power utility contractor.
On 5 May 2004 the Company redeemed its special rights 
non-voting redeemable preference share of £1 (Special Share) at
par, following notification from DETI that it required the Special
Share to be redeemed.
Reviews of the Group's activities and potential future developments
are provided in the Chairman's Statement, the Group Chief
Executive's Review, and the Operating and Financial Review.
Post Balance Sheet Event
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of Sx3 to
Northgate for £155m.
Share Capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital are given in note
23 to the accounts.
Directors
The present directors, who held office throughout the period, are:
Dipesh Shah (non-executive Chairman)
Patrick Haren (Group Chief Executive)
Patrick Bourke (Group Finance Director)
Harry McCracken (Group Managing Director, VP&E)
Duncan Lewis (Senior Independent Director)
Mike Toms
Desmond Smyth and Philip Rogerson were directors until their
retirement on 28 February 2005 and 30 April 2005 respectively.
Duncan Lewis will seek re-appointment at this year’s AGM.
The directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
(which include those of their families), together with details in
respect of share awards under the PSP, shares held by the trustees
of the SIP on their behalf and options to acquire ordinary shares
under the all employee Sharesave Scheme, are shown in the
Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 32 to 34.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 6.
Research and Development
The Group is committed to a programme of research and
development activities appropriate to its businesses.  In particular,
NIE in conjunction with local universities and other partners is
committed to research and development in the areas of embedded
generation systems, particularly renewable generation, performance
enhancement of interconnection and windpower.  
Sx3 carries out research and development into internet-based
software for use in local authority systems.
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 11 May 2005 the Group had been notified of the following
substantial shareholding:
No. of shares %
Legal & General Group Plc 4,444,192 3.32 Directors’ Report 36
Equal Opportunities
The Group has been pro-active in compliance with fair employment,
sex discrimination, equal pay, disability discrimination and race
discrimination legislation in Northern Ireland.  It regularly monitors
its actions to promote compliance and to ensure that it provides
equality of opportunity in all its employment practices.
Disability
The Group has taken active steps to implement the Disability
Discrimination Act.  It is Group policy to provide people with
disabilities equal opportunities for employment, training and career
development, having regard to aptitude and ability.  Any member of
staff who becomes disabled during employment is given assistance
and re-training where possible.
Employee Participation
The Group recognises the value of effective communication with
employees.  There are well-established arrangements for
consultation and the promotion of employee relations through a
framework of company councils.  A number of Group-wide
consultative committees are also in place dealing with areas such as
health and safety and current ideas.
NIE, Powerteam and Sx3 have all achieved IIP accreditation.
Health and Safety at Work of Employees
The Group strives for continual improvement in safety performance
through review of safe working practices and increased safety
awareness of all employees. 
Charitable and Political Donations
The Group’s wide-ranging sponsorship activities are described in the
Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 27.  Apart from
sponsorship, donations to charities in the year were £11,000 (2004 -
£13,000).  There were no contributions for political purposes.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as external auditors
and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be
proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting
Full details of the AGM to be held on 8 July 2005 and explanations
of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting appear in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed separately with 
this report.
Payment of Suppliers
The Group’s procurement policy is to source equipment, goods and
services from a wide range of suppliers throughout the European
Union and beyond in accordance with commercial practices based
on fairness and transparency.
The Group recognises the important role that suppliers play in its
business, and works to ensure that payments are made to them in
accordance with agreed contract terms.
Going Concern
Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
Ian Thom
Company Secretary
Registered Office
120 Malone Road
Belfast BT9 5HT
Registered Number: NI33250
17 May 2005 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts 37
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT 
OF THE ACCOUNTS
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period.  In preparing those accounts the directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; and
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the
accounts comply with the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order
1986.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities. Independent Auditors’ Report 38
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE
MEMBERS OF VIRIDIAN GROUP PLC
We have audited the Group's financial statements for the year ended
31 March 2005 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account,
Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Group
Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow
Statement and the related notes 1 to 33.  These financial statements
have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out
therein.  We have also audited the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in
accordance with Article 243 of the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company's members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.  To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of 
Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
including the financial statements which are required to be prepared
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards as set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities,
in relation to the financial statements.  The directors are also
responsible for preparing the Directors' Remuneration Report. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
(Northern Ireland) Order 1986.  We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records,
if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing
Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the
Group is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the
Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we
report if it does not.  We are not required to consider whether the
Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements.  This other information comprises the Group Financial
Highlights, Chairman's Statement, Group Chief Executive’s Review,
Board of Directors, Operating Review, Financial Review, Corporate
Governance statement, Corporate Social Responsibility statement,
the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the
Directors’ Report.  We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements.  Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information. 
Basis of Audit Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.  An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part
of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.  It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and 
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the 
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors'
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part
of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited. 
Opinion
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March
2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986. 
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Belfast
17 May 2005 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Group Profit and Loss Account and Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 39
Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2005
Note 2005 2004
£m £m
TURNOVER
Continuing operations 836.9 732.9
Discontinued operations 106.8 101.3
3 943.7 834.2
Operating costs 4 (832.7) (733.4)
________ ________
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
-   Continuing operations 99.4 95.5
-   Discontinued operations 13.8 7.5
113.2 103.0
Goodwill amortisation
-   Continuing operations (0.2) (0.2)
-   Discontinued operations (2.0) (2.0)
OPERATING PROFIT 111.0 100.8
Profit on disposal of discontinued operation 5 - 17.7
Loss on disposal of discontinued operation 5 - (1.8)
Provision in respect of investment in discontinued associate undertaking 5 - (2.5)
________ ________
PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXATION 111.0 114.2
Net interest payable 7 (24.4) (25.0)
________ ________
PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 86.6 89.2
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 (18.5) (14.9)
________ ________
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF 24 68.1 74.3
THE PARENT COMPANY
Dividends 10, 24 (47.0) (44.8)
________ ________
RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 21.1 29.5
________ ________
________ ________
Pence Pence
EARNINGS PER SHARE
BASIC 11 51.0 55.9
DILUTED 11 50.7 55.7
Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 68.1 74.3
Exchange difference on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings (0.1) (0.2)
________ ________
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 68.0 74.1
________ ________
________ ________ Balance Sheets 40
Balance Sheets
As at 31 March 2005
Group Company
Note 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
FIXED ASSETS
Intangible assets 12 34.5 39.0 - -
Tangible assets 13 1,001.3 967.8 - -
Investment in subsidiaries 14 - - 697.0 697.0
Other investment 14 0.2 0.3 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
1,036.0 1,007.1 697.0 697.0
________ ________ ________ ________
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks 15 9.8 13.9 - -
Debtors - due within one year 16 167.3 140.3 81.4 110.1
- due after more than one year 16 18.3 19.3 - -
Investments 17 82.6 47.5 59.1 27.0
Cash at bank and in hand 4.0 10.6 0.4 9.1
________ ________ ________ ________
282.0 231.6 140.9 146.2
CREDITORS (amounts falling due within one year) 18 (265.4) (244.7) (202.2) (182.5)
________ ________ ________ ________
NET CURRENT ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) 16.6 (13.1) (61.3) (36.3)
________ ________ ________ ________
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,052.6 994.0 635.7 660.7
CREDITORS (amounts falling due after more than one year) 18 (439.1) (435.1) (39.1) (39.3)
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 20 (125.4) (115.3) - -
DEFERRED INCOME 22 (186.8) (166.6) - -
________ ________ ________ ________
NET ASSETS 3 301.3 277.0 596.6 621.4
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 23 33.4 33.3 33.4 33.3
Share premium account 24 13.2 10.0 13.2 10.0
Merger reserve 24 - - 442.9 442.9
Profit and loss account 24 254.7 233.7 107.1 135.2
________ ________ ________ ________
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 301.3 277.0 596.6 621.4
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
The accounts on pages 39 to 70 were approved by the Board of directors and were signed on its behalf by:
Dipesh Shah Patrick Bourke
Chairman Group Finance Director
17 May 2005 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Group Cash Flow Statement 41
Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2005
Note 2005 2004
£m £m
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 28 194.8 167.3
RETURNS ON INVESTMENTS AND SERVICING OF FINANCE 29 (23.6) (26.8)
TAXATION (18.6) (19.2)
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT 29 (83.1) (80.7)
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 29 - 135.6
EQUITY DIVIDENDS PAID (45.5) (43.6)
________ ________
CASH INFLOW BEFORE USE OF LIQUID RESOURCES 24.0 132.6
AND FINANCING
MANAGEMENT OF LIQUID RESOURCES 29 (34.9) (15.5)
FINANCING 29 4.2 (120.2)
________ ________
DECREASE IN CASH IN THE YEAR (6.7) (3.1)
________ ________
________ ________
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN
NET DEBT
Decrease in cash in the year (6.7) (3.1)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from movement in debt (0.9) 121.9
Cash outflow from movement in liquid resources 34.9 15.5
________ ________
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 30 27.3 134.3
Translation difference 30 (4.5) 5.1
________ ________
Movement in net debt in the year 22.8 139.4
Net debt at beginning of year 30 (382.7) (522.1)
________ ________
Net debt at end of year 30 (359.9) (382.7)
________ ________
________ ________ Notes to the Accounts 42
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 31 MARCH 2005
1. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation of Financial Information
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 March 2005.  No
separate profit and loss account is presented for Viridian Group PLC as permitted by Article 238 (3) of the Companies (Northern
Ireland) Order 1986.
Entities in which the Group held an interest on a long-term basis and which were jointly controlled by the Group and one or more
other venturers under a contractual arrangement were treated as joint ventures.  In the Group accounts, joint ventures were
accounted for using the gross equity method.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings or joint ventures, in which the Group had a participating interest and over whose
operating and financial policies the Group exercised a significant influence were treated as associates.  In the Group accounts,
associates were accounted for using the equity method.
As more fully explained in note 1 to the 1998 accounts, the conditions for merger accounting set out in FRS 6 Acquisitions and
Mergers and schedule 4 (A) to the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 were not fully met in the Group reconstruction which
led to the acquisition by the Company of NIE.  However the directors considered that if acquisition accounting had been applied, the
Group accounts would have failed to show a true and fair view for the shareholders since they had a continuing interest in NIE
before and after the reconstruction.  Accordingly merger accounting was applied.  No quantification has been given of this departure
because to do so would be misleading.
2. Accounting Policies
Accounting convention
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards except as
indicated in note 1 above.  
New accounting standards
The accounts reflect the adoption of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts (UITF 38). UITF 38 requires own shares held
under trust to be deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds.  Previously own shares held under trust were presented as fixed asset
investments.  The impact of UITF 38 is to reduce the Group’s opening reserves at 1 April 2003 by £1.0m.  The implementation of
UITF 38 has no impact on the Group’s previously reported profits. 
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.  The charge for depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, less
residual value, of assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis, except for infrastructure assets as referred to below.
The lives of each major class of depreciable asset are as follows:
Infrastructure assets 40 years
Depreciation is charged at 3% for 20 years followed by 2% for the remaining 20 years
Generation assets Up to 30 years
Non-operational buildings - freehold and long leasehold Up to 50 years
Fixtures and equipment Up to 25 years
Vehicles and mobile plant Up to 5 years
Freehold land is not depreciated. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 43
2. Accounting Policies (Continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill may arise on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings, the trade and assets of a business, and interests in
joint ventures. It represents the excess of cost over fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.  In
accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, such goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised by equal
instalments against profit over its estimated useful economic life which usually does not exceed 20 years.  It is reviewed for
impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, except that software development expenditure incurred on specific
projects is carried forward when its future recoverability can reasonably be regarded as assured.  Any expenditure carried forward is
amortised by equal instalments against profit over its estimated useful economic life.
Investments
Current asset investments are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the
transaction is covered by a forward foreign currency contract.  Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or where appropriate at the forward contract rate.
The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.  The
exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is taken directly to reserves.  All other translation differences
are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are
used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, which are taken directly to reserves.  
Derivative instruments
The Group uses forward exchange and commodity contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to fluctuations in
currency rates, commodity prices and interest rates.  A discussion of how the Group manages its financial risks is included in the
Financial Review and details of the Group’s financial instruments and the aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the
hedging instruments described above are disclosed in note 31 to the accounts.  The Group accounts for its derivative instruments 
as follows:
Forward exchange and commodity contracts
Gains and losses under these contracts are offset in the profit and loss account in line with the transactions which they are hedging.
Where the contract is used to hedge a committed future transaction, it is not recognised until the transaction occurs.  If the
underlying commitment does not occur and the instrument ceases to be a hedge, a gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss
account.  The rates under such contracts are used to value the hedged asset or liability.
Interest rate swaps
Amounts receivable or payable in respect of swap agreements are recognised as adjustments to net interest payable in the profit and
loss account over the period of the agreement.  Where a swap and underlying debt are terminated together, the net gain or loss is
included in net interest payable.  When swaps are terminated but the underlying debt is retained then any gain or loss is deferred
and is amortised to net interest payable over the remaining term of the underlying debt.  Interest rate swaps are not reflected in the
balance sheet at fair value.
Stocks and work in progress
Stocks are valued at the lower of average purchase price and net realisable value.
Pension costs
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements.  Pension costs in respect of defined benefit
arrangements are assessed by qualified actuaries and are charged to the profit and loss account so as to recognise the expected
cost of benefits over members' working lives with the employer.  Pension costs in respect of defined contribution arrangements are
charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable. Notes to the Accounts 44
2. Accounting Policies (Continued)
Grants
Grants received in respect of expenditure charged to the profit and loss account during the year are included in the profit and 
loss account.
Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences arising from the different treatment for accounts and taxation purposes of
transactions and events recognised in the accounts of the current year and previous years.  Deferred taxation is measured at the tax
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.  Deferred taxation is discounted using the post tax yields to maturity that could be
obtained at the balance sheet date on government bonds with maturity dates similar to those of the deferred taxation assets and
liabilities.  Deferred taxation is not provided in respect of gains arising from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, by the
balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will be rolled over.
Deferred income
Grants and customers' contributions received in respect of fixed assets are deferred and released to the profit and loss account by
instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.  Support and maintenance revenue is deferred on invoicing and
released to the profit and loss account over the term of the support and maintenance period.
Software licence revenue
Revenue in respect of software licences is recognised where delivery is complete and there are no future elements to be delivered or
there are no significant customisations which are essential to the functionality of the delivered element.  Where the software requires
significant customisation over an extended period, licence revenue is recognised over the period of implementation on a percentage
complete basis.
Long-term contract accounting
Profit on long-term contracts is taken as the work is carried out if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.  The profit
included is calculated on a prudent basis to reflect the proportion of the work carried out at the period end, by recording turnover
and related costs as contract activity progresses.  Turnover is calculated as that proportion of total contract value which costs
incurred to date bear to total expected costs for that contract.  Revenues derived from variations on contracts are recognised only
when they have been accepted by the customer.  Full provision is made for losses on all contracts in the year in which they are 
first foreseen.
Hire purchase and finance lease contracts
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have
passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the profit and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire
purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Capitalised interest
Interest on the funding attributable to significant capital projects is capitalised during the period of construction and written off as
part of the total cost over the operational life of the asset.  All other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the profit and loss
account as it arises.
Bid costs
The Group expenses, when incurred, all bid costs and other related costs where recovery is not specifically provided for in
accordance with the contract terms, except that directly attributed costs (which can be separately identified and reliably measured)
are recognised as assets when it is virtually certain that a contract will be achieved and that contract is expected to generate future
net cash inflows with a net present value at least equal to the amounts recognised as an asset.  Costs incurred before this level of
certainty is obtained are not subsequently reinstated.
Decommissioning
Provision is made where appropriate for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the producing lives of the Group’s
infrastructure and generation assets on a discounted basis.  Capitalised decommissioning costs are depreciated over the useful lives
of the related assets.  The unwinding of the discount is included within net interest payable. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 45
3. Turnover and Segmental Information
Turnover represents the invoiced value of goods sold and services provided, exclusive of value added tax, with the following
exceptions:
• electricity sales, which include an estimate of the sales value of units supplied to customers between the date of the last meter
reading and the period end; and
• software licence revenue, support and maintenance revenue and turnover in respect of long-term contracts which are
recognised in accordance with the accounting polices set out in note 2.
Discontinued operations comprise Sx3, Fleet and Moyle as set out in note 14.
Turnover and operating profit are analysed between the businesses as follows:
Turnover Operating profit
External Internal Total External Internal Total
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations:
NIE 529.5 76.9 606.4 501.9 55.6 557.5 68.5 75.9
Powerteam 28.7 41.8 70.5 23.5 39.7 63.2 4.6 2.4
VP&E 272.8 0.8 273.6 205.5 0.5 206.0 25.2 18.3
Other 5.9 0.2 6.1 2.0 0.4 2.4 2.4 -
Discontinued operations:
Sx3 106.8 20.7 127.5 98.3 19.0 117.3 13.8 7.1
Fleet -- - 3.0 2.3 5.3 - 0.4
Moyle -- - -- - - -
Consolidation adjustments:
Inter-group elimination - (140.4) (140.4) - (117.5) (117.5) (1.3) (1.1)
Goodwill amortisation:
-   Continuing operations -- - -- - (0.2) (0.2)
-   Discontinued operations -- - -- - (2.0) (2.0)
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
943.7 - 943.7 834.2 - 834.2 111.0 100.8
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
The Group operates primarily in the UK with the exception of the following operations originating in the RoI.
Turnover Operating profit
External Internal Total External Internal Total
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations:
VP&E 179.8 11.8 191.6 127.9 8.4 136.3 22.2 14.4
Powerteam 23.1 - 23.1 19.0 - 19.0 2.3 0.5
Inter-segment elimination - (11.8) (11.8) - (8.4) (8.4) - -
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
202.9 - 202.9 146.9 - 146.9 24.5 14.9
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
_______________________ _______________________ ________________
Turnover by destination is not materially different from that disclosed above by origin. Notes to the Accounts 46
3. Turnover and Segmental Information (Continued)
In addition to the disclosures required under SSAP 25 given above, the directors believe the following breakdown of NIE's business
according to its regulated entitlement is useful to shareholders:
Turnover Operating profit
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Based on regulated entitlement:
Power Procurement/SONI 436.3 383.1 6.5 5.6
Transmission and Distribution 162.9 164.9 71.4 73.9
NIE Supply 424.9 447.0 6.4 5.8
Other 0.6 0.2 - 0.1
Inter-group elimination (402.5) (428.2) - -
___________________ ___________________
622.2 567.0 84.3 85.4
Adjustment for under-recovery (15.8) (9.5) (15.8) (9.5)
___________________ ___________________
606.4 557.5 68.5 75.9
___________________ ___________________
___________________ ___________________
The under-recovery adjustment represents the amount by which NIE under-recovered against its regulated entitlement.
Net operating assets are analysed between the businesses as follows:
Net operating assets
2005 2004
£m £m
Continuing operations:
NIE 596.1 594.2
Powerteam 7.8 7.4
VP&E 171.8 152.4
Other (10.4) (5.5)
Discontinued operations:
Sx3 5.8 14.6
Consolidation adjustments:
Inter-group elimination (6.3) (5.0)
___________________
Net operating assets 764.8 758.1
Unallocated net liabilities (463.5) (481.1)
___________________
Total net assets 301.3 277.0
___________________
___________________
Unallocated net liabilities include net debt, proposed dividends, corporation tax, deferred tax, goodwill and loan notes recoverable.
Group net operating assets are attributable to operations within the UK with the exception of the following operations originating in 
the RoI:
Net operating assets
2005 2004
£m £m
VP&E 173.1 155.4
Powerteam 2.7 2.7
___________________
___________________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 47
4. Operating Costs
Operating costs were as follows:
2005 2004
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Energy costs 548.6 - 548.6 471.6 - 471.6
Employee costs 47.0 42.0 89.0 46.8 42.3 89.1
Depreciation 42.7 11.8 54.5 40.4 8.0 48.4
Goodwill amortisation 0.2 2.0 2.2 0.2 2.0 2.2
Other operating charges 99.2 39.2 138.4 78.6 43.5 122.1
________________________________ ________________________________
737.7 95.0 832.7 637.6 95.8 733.4
________________________________ ________________________________
________________________________ ________________________________
The directors believe that the nature of the Group’s business is such that the analysis of operating costs set out in the Companies
(Northern Ireland) Order 1986 format is not appropriate.  The directors have adopted the presented format so that operating costs are
disclosed in a manner appropriate to the Group’s activities.
2005 2004
Operating costs also include: £m £m
Depreciation charge:
-   On tangible fixed assets owned 54.5 48.4
Operating lease rental:
-   Plant and equipment 3.3 2.0
-   Land and buildings 1.4 1.5
Auditors' remuneration in respect of services to the Group:
-   Audit services 0.2 0.2
-   Non-audit services   -   taxation advice 0.1 0.1
-   other assurance services 0.1 0.1
________ ________
________ ________
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of audit services to the Company amounted to £68,000 (2004 - £60,000).
In addition, auditors' remuneration for non-audit services (taxation and other advice) in respect of disposals amounted to £nil 
(2004 - £0.8m).
The depreciation charge is net of the associated release of customers' contributions and grants of £6.5m (2004 - £6.0m).
5. Exceptional Items
Note 2005 2004
£m £m
Recognised after arriving at total operating profit:
-   Profit on disposal of discontinued operation (i) - 17.7
-   Loss on disposal of discontinued operation (ii) - (1.8)
-   Provision in respect of investment in discontinued associate undertaking (iii) - (2.5)
________ ________
- 13.4
________ ________
________ ________
(i) Profit on disposal of discontinued operation in the year ended 31 March 2004 relates to the disposal on 14 April 2003 of the
Moyle Interconnector.
(ii) Loss on disposal of discontinued operation in the year ended 31 March 2004 relates to the disposal on 26 November 2003 of
Fleet Solutions (Ireland) Limited.
(iii) In the year ended 31 March 2004 the Group made a provision of £2.5m for its obligations in respect of those members of the
defined benefit pension scheme of Lislyn Limited (its former associate undertaking) who were employees of NIE at privatisation.
The effect on the deferred tax charge for the year ended 31 March 2004 of the exceptional items recognised after arriving at total
operating profit is disclosed in note 8. Notes to the Accounts 48
6. Employees
Employee costs
Total employee costs for the year amounted to:
2005 2004
£m £m
Salaries 84.2 83.7
Social security costs 8.5 8.2
Pension costs 17.4 15.8
________ ________
110.1 107.7
Less: charged to balance sheet (21.1) (18.6)
________ ________
Charged to the profit and loss account 89.0 89.1
________ ________
________ ________
Employee numbers
Average number Actual headcount
during the year at 31 March
2005 2004 2005 2004
No. No. No. No.
NIE 343 422 347 406
Powerteam 1,030 1,112 1,005 1,018
VP&E 86 77 94 79
Other 4 5 4 5
Discontinued  -  Sx3 1,093 1,159 1,095 1,150
- Fleet - 21 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
2,556 2,796 2,545 2,658
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
Details of the remuneration, pension entitlements, PSP awards and share options for each director and their participation in the SIP
are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
7. Net Interest Payable
2005 2004
£m £m
Group interest payable and similar charges:
Bank loans and overdrafts (16.5) (14.9)
Eurobond (12.1) (12.1)
Loan notes - (0.1)
Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision (0.1) (0.1)
________ ________
Group interest payable and other similar charges (28.7) (27.2)
Less : charged to balance sheet 0.2 0.3
________ ________
(28.5) (26.9)
Group interest receivable and similar income 4.1 1.9
________ ________
Group net interest payable (24.4) (25.0)
________ ________
________ ________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 49
8. Tax on Profit on Ordinary Activities
(i) Analysis of charge in the year 2005 2004
£m £m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 30% (2004 - 30%) 23.3 17.9
Corporation tax overprovided in previous years (4.5) (4.0)
________ ________
Total current tax 18.8 13.9
________ ________
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences in current year 1.7 5.6
Origination and reversal of timing differences relating to prior years (0.3) (3.1)
Deferred tax discount credit (1.7) (1.5)
________ ________
Total deferred tax (0.3) 1.0
________ ________
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 18.5 14.9
________ ________
________ ________
The deferred tax effect in the profit and loss account relating to the exceptional items recognised after arriving at total operating profit
in the year ended 31 March 2004 is a credit of £0.8m.
(ii) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year varies from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%).  The differences are explained below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 86.6 89.2
________ ________
________ ________
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 30% 26.0 26.8
Effects of:
Goodwill amortisation 0.7 0.7
Net profit on disposal of discontinued operations - (4.8)
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 3.3 1.8
Held-over gains on property disposals (1.5) (0.3)
RoI profits offset by capital allowances (4.3) (0.9)
Timing differences in respect of provisions 4.5 0.7
Capital expenditure treated as revenue for tax purposes (5.7) (6.3)
Other permanent differences 0.3 0.2
Corporation tax overprovided in previous years (4.5) (4.0)
________ ________
Current tax charge for the year 18.8 13.9
________ ________
________ ________
(iii) Factors that may affect future tax charges
Following a change in HM Revenue & Customs’ rules, from 1 April 2005, NIE will no longer be allowed to deduct a proportion of its
network capital expenditure as revenue for tax purposes.
9. Profit for the Financial Year
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the parent company was £18.9m (2004 - £28.2m).   Notes to the Accounts 50
10. Dividends
These dividends are all in respect of equity shares.
2005 2004
£m £m
Ordinary shares
Interim paid 9.84p per share (2004 - 9.46p) 13.1 12.5
Final proposed 25.34p per share (2004 - 24.20p) 33.9 32.3
________ ________
47.0 44.8
________ ________
________ ________
11. Earnings per Share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share is based on profit of £68.1m (2004 - £74.3m) and on 133.4m (2004 - 132.8m)
ordinary shares, being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.  The calculation of basic diluted
earnings per share is based on profit of £68.1m (2004 - £74.3m) and on 134.3m (2004 - 133.5m) ordinary shares, calculated as
follows:
2005 2004
No. No.
Basic weighted average number of shares (million) 133.4 132.8
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Executive Share Option/Sharesave Schemes (million) 0.9 0.7
________ ________
134.3 133.5
________ ________
________ ________
The directors believe that the performance of NIE’s regulated businesses is best assessed by reference to their regulated entitlement
and as a result the directors present both basic earnings per share (under FRS 14 Earnings per Share) and earnings per share on a
pro-forma basis in the Financial Review.
12. Intangible Assets
Group Development Goodwill Total
costs
£m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 11.7 71.2 82.9
________ ________ ________
Amortisation/impairment:
At 1 April 2004 6.5 37.4 43.9
Charge for the year 2.3 2.2 4.5
________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 8.8 39.6 48.4
________ ________ ________
Net book value:
At 1 April 2004 5.2 33.8 39.0
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 2.9 31.6 34.5
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Goodwill arising on all acquisitions has been capitalised and is being amortised over its estimated useful economic life from the date
of acquisition.  In each case the useful economic life is 20 years. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 51
13. Tangible Assets
Group Infrastructure Non- Fixtures and Vehicles and Total
and generation operational equipment mobile plant
assets land and
buildings
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 1,279.0 18.8 116.3 7.2 1,421.3
Exchange adjustment 4.7 0.3 - - 5.0
Additions 72.4 0.2 17.9 - 90.5
Disposals (0.2) - (1.8) (0.1) (2.1)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 1,355.9 19.3 132.4 7.1 1,514.7
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Depreciation:
At 1 April 2004 382.3 3.0 61.4 6.8 453.5
Exchange adjustment 0.3 - - - 0.3
Charge for the year 42.3 0.5 18.1 0.1 61.0
Disposals - - (1.3) (0.1) (1.4)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 424.9 3.5 78.2 6.8 513.4
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Net book value:
At 1 April 2004 896.7 15.8 54.9 0.4 967.8
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 931.0 15.8 54.2 0.3 1,001.3
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
The cost of fixed assets includes amounts in respect of capitalised interest of £16.0m (2004 - £15.8m).
The net book value of non-operational land and buildings comprises:
2005 2004
£m £m
Freehold 12.0 11.7
Long leasehold 1.3 1.3
Short leasehold 2.5 2.8
________ ________
15.8 15.8
________ ________
________ ________ Notes to the Accounts 52
14. Investments
Group - other investment £m
At 1 April 2004 0.3
Write down of investment (0.1)
________
At 31 March 2005 0.2
________
________
Company - investment in subsidiaries £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 968.1
________
Provision:
At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 (271.1)
________
Net book value:
At 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 697.0
________
________
Details of the principal investments in which the Group or Company holds more than 20% of the nominal value of any class of share
capital are as follows:
Name of company Holding Proportion held Nature of business
of voting rights
and shares
Subsidiary undertakings
Northern Ireland Electricity plc Ordinary shares and 100% Power procurement,
Preference shares transmission, distribution
and supply of electricity
SONI Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Transmission system operator
NIE Powerteam Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Infrastructure contracting
Powerteam Electrical Services Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Infrastructure contracting
Viridian Power and Energy Ltd Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Huntstown Power Company Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Electricity generation
GenSys Power Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Operating and maintenance 
services
Viridian Power Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Generation development
Viridian Energy Supply Ltd (trading as Energia) Ordinary shares 100% * Energy supply
Viridian Energy Ltd (trading as Energia) Ordinary shares 100% * Energy supply
Viridian Capital Ltd Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Viridian Enterprises Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Holding company
Viridian Properties Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Property development
Viridian Insurance Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Captive insurance company 
Discontinued operations:
Service and Systems Solutions Ltd (trading as Sx3) Ordinary shares 100% * Software & IT services
LearnServe Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Software & IT services
* held by a subsidiary undertaking.
All of the above companies are incorporated in Northern Ireland with the exception of:
-   Viridian Insurance Ltd incorporated in the Isle of Man; and
-   Huntstown Power Company Ltd, GenSys Power Ltd, Viridian Power Ltd, Viridian Energy Ltd and Powerteam Electrical Services Ltd  
incorporated in the RoI. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 53
14. Investments (Continued)
On 14 April 2003 the Group completed the disposal of the Moyle Interconnector.  On 26 November 2003 the Group completed the
disposal of Fleet Solutions (Ireland) Limited.  The disposals are analysed as follows:
2004 2004 2004
Moyle Fleet Total
£m £m £m
Net assets disposed of:
Fixed assets 157.4 14.1 171.5
Debtors 4.8 2.3 7.1
Other creditors (1.5) (0.4) (1.9)
Provisions (5.1) (0.5) (5.6)
Deferred income (51.1) (0.3) (51.4)
Inter-group loans repaid on disposal (102.3) (4.2) (106.5)
________ ________ ________
2.2 11.0 13.2
Profit/(loss) on disposal 17.7 (1.8) 15.9
________ ________ ________
19.9 9.2 29.1
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Satisfied by:
Cash 19.9 9.2 29.1
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Net inflow of funds to Group:
Cash 19.9 9.2 29.1
Inter-group loans repaid 102.3 4.2 106.5
________ ________ ________
122.2 13.4 135.6
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of Sx3 for £155m.  
15. Stocks
Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Materials and consumables 4.6 7.9
Work in progress 3.5 2.9
Goods held for resale 0.5 0.4
Property 1.2 2.7
________ ________
9.8 13.9
________ ________
________ ________ Notes to the Accounts 54
16. Debtors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m 
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors (including unbilled consumption) 141.4 119.6 - -
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts 9.3 9.3 - -
Other debtors 5.1 1.7 - -
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings - - 80.9 109.9
Prepayments and accrued income 10.3 8.2 0.5 0.2
Loan notes 1.2 1.5 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
167.3 140.3 81.4 110.1
________ ________ ________ ________
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Pension prepayment 8.9 8.9 - -
Loan notes 9.0 10.4 - -
Other debtors 0.4 - - -
________ ________ ________ ________
18.3 19.3 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
185.6 159.6 81.4 110.1
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
17. Current Asset Investments
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m 
Bank deposits 76.0 40.3 59.1 27.0
Short-term managed funds 6.6 7.2 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
82.6 47.5 59.1 27.0
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 55
18. Creditors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m 
Amounts falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 7.3 5.6 - -
Payments received on account 21.3 22.1 - -
Payments in advance under long-term contracts 12.8 16.9 - -
Trade creditors 111.0 89.7 - -
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - - 165.0 144.8
Corporation tax 29.0 28.8 2.2 4.8
Taxation and social security 9.6 5.9 - -
Other creditors 1.4 0.3 - -
Accruals 39.1 43.0 1.2 0.6
Proposed dividend 33.8 32.3 33.8 32.3
Loan notes 0.1 0.1 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
265.4 244.7 202.2 182.5
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Eurobond 172.9 172.9 - -
Bank loans 266.2 262.2 39.1 39.3
________ ________ ________ ________
439.1 435.1 39.1 39.3
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
19. Loans
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m 
Amounts outstanding are repayable as follows:
In one year or less or on demand 7.4 5.7 - -
In more than one year but not more than two years 7.3 45.0 - 39.3
In more than two years but not more than five years 161.9 19.5 39.1 -
In more than five years 269.9 370.6 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
446.5 440.8 39.1 39.3
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m 
Details of loans not wholly repayable within five years are as follows:
£175m Eurobond 2018 - 6.875% 172.9 172.9 - -
EIB loan 2009 - 100.0 - -
€190.3m bank loan facility 2017 - 6.43% (see terms below) 130.9 128.5 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
303.8 401.4 - -
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
The €190.3m bank loan facility is repayable in the period 2004 to 2017 with semi-annual instalments which commenced in April
2004.  The amount drawn down at 31 March 2005 is €190.3m (2004 - €192.2m).  This bank loan is secured over the assets of 
Huntstown 1. Notes to the Accounts 56
20. Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Group At Applied Released Increase Unwinding At
1 April in the to profit in of 31 March
2004 year and loss provisions discount 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Reorganisation and restructuring 5.9 (3.7) - 1.9 - 4.1
Liability and damage claims 7.7 (1.0) - 2.2 - 8.9
Provision for associate 2.6 - - 0.2 - 2.8
Decommissioning 1.4 - - 0.6 0.1 2.1
Environment 14.7 (0.3) - 10.4 - 24.8
Deferred tax 83.0 - (2.4) 2.1 - 82.7
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
115.3 (5.0) (2.4) 17.4 0.1 125.4
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Reorganisation and restructuring
Reorganisation and restructuring provisions are expected to be utilised within two years.
Liability and damage claims
Liability and damage provisions are expected to be utilised within a period not exceeding five years.
Provision for associate
Provision has been made for obligations in respect of those members of Lislyn’s defined benefit pension scheme who were
employees of NIE at privatisation.  The provision is expected to be utilised within two years.
Decommissioning
Provision has been made for decommissioning Huntstown 1.  The provision represents the present value of the current estimated
cost of closure of the plant at the end of its useful economic life.  The provision has been discounted using a rate of 4.43% 
(2004 - 5.7%).
Environment
Provision has been made for expenditure to be incurred in meeting the obligations identified within the Group’s published
environmental policy.  These costs are expected to be incurred within the next five years.  Provision has also been made for expected
costs of decontamination and demolition arising from privatisation obligations in respect of sites at power stations formerly owned by
NIE.  The expected date of settlement of these obligations remains uncertain but it is anticipated that most expenditure will take
place within the next five years.  No discounting of the environmental provision has been made as its effect is not significant to the
accounts. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 57
21. Deferred Taxation
Deferred taxation provided in the accounts comprises: 2005 2004
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 146.5 140.5
Other (17.8) (13.2)
________ ________
Undiscounted provision for deferred tax 128.7 127.3
Discount (46.0) (44.3)
________ ________
Discounted provision for deferred tax 82.7 83.0
________ ________
________ ________
Provision at 1 April 83.0 84.4
Deferred tax (credit)/charge for the year (0.3) 1.0
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings - (2.4)
________ ________
Provision at 31 March 82.7 83.0
________ ________
________ ________
22. Deferred Income
Group  Grants Customers' Support & Total
contributions maintenance
contracts
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 12.1 137.2 17.3 166.6
Receivable 0.2 15.6 30.2 46.0
Released to profit and loss (0.7) (5.8) (19.3) (25.8)
________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 11.6 147.0 28.2 186.8
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ Notes to the Accounts 58
23. Share Capital
(a) Share capital
Authorised: 2005 2004
£ £
Ordinary shares of 25p each 54,000,000 54,000,000
Non equity special rights non-voting redeemable preference - 1
share of £1 (Special Share)
___________ ___________
54,000,000 54,000,001
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
Allotted and fully paid: 2005 2004 2005 2004
No. No. £ £
Ordinary shares of 25p each 133,755,106 133,172,814 33,438,776 33,293,203
Special share - 1 - 1
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
133,755,106 133,172,815 33,438,776 33,293,204
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
The Special Share was cancelled following its redemption on 5 May 2004.  During the year the Company allotted 582,292 ordinary
shares of 25p each under the Executive Share Option/Sharesave Schemes.
(b) Employee Share Schemes
The Group has established an all employee Sharesave Scheme and a discretionary Executive Share Option Scheme.  Shares under
option in the Sharesave Scheme and the Executive Share Option Scheme at 31 March 2005 were as follows:
Sharesave Scheme
Date of grant Number of Number of Exercise price Normal date
participants shares per share of exercise
12 December 2002 1,143 1,568,859 402.0p February 2006 - July 2006
Employees enter into a savings contract over a fixed period, at the end of which they have the option to buy ordinary shares of the
Company at a price fixed at the time of grant of the option.  Options may be exercised earlier than the normal date in special
circumstances such as death or ceasing employment due to injury, redundancy, retirement or sale of the business.  
During the year 53 participants exercised options in respect of 46,535 shares for a total consideration of £0.2m. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 59
23. Share Capital (Continued)
Executive Share Option Scheme
Date of grant Number of Number of Exercise price Normal date
participants shares per share of exercise
29 September 1997 2 5,500 478.0p Sept 2000 - Sept 2007
5 June 1998 24 44,448 581.0p June 2001 - June 2008
11 June 1999 56 110,692 656.0p June 2002 - June 2009
22 June 2000 120 202,498 741.5p June 2003 - June 2010
21 May 2001 54 115,018 638.5p May 2004 - May 2011
16 November 2001 1 25,000 543.5p Nov 2004 - Nov 2011
29 May 2002 158 422,610 465.0p May 2005 - May 2012
22 May 2003 188 253,181 534.5p May 2006 - May 2013
25 May 2004 34 251,447 573.5p May 2007 - May 2014
During the year 227 participants exercised options in respect of 535,757 shares for a total consideration of £3.1m.  No directors
have been granted options since 5 July 1993.
Options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme are exercisable within a period of 10 years from the date of grant and
entitle the participant to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a price determined at the time options were granted by the
Board.  The price of the option is not less than the higher of the nominal value of the share and the market value of a share on the
dealing day immediately preceding or, if the Board so determines, the average market value over the three dealing days preceding
the date of grant.
Options are normally only exercisable after three years from the date of grant by a participant who remains in the Group's
employment.
Share Investment Plan (SIP)
In February 2005, the Group established a SIP, which is independently administered and has been approved by HM Revenue &
Customs. The SIP gives employees an opportunity to purchase shares out of pre-tax salary up to a maximum value of £125 per
month or 10% of taxable salary, whichever is lower.  The SIP also allows the Group to provide some matching shares to participating
employees at no cost.  During 2005, 4,471 matching shares were purchased by the trustees of the SIP on behalf of 753 employees
at a total cost to the Group of £33,000.   Notes to the Accounts 60
24. Reconciliation of Shareholders’ Funds and Movement in Reserves
Share Share Profit and Total
capital premium loss account
£m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 April 2003 (as previously reported) 33.3 9.3 204.4 247.0
Prior year adjustment (see below) - - (1.0) (1.0)
________ ________ ________ ________
At 1 April 2003 (restated) 33.3 9.3 203.4 246.0
Proceeds from exercise of options under Executive - 0.7 - 0.7
Share Option/Sharesave Schemes
Profit for the year - - 74.3 74.3
Exchange difference on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings - - (0.2) (0.2)
Disposal of investment in own shares - - 1.0 1.0
Dividends - - (44.8) (44.8)
________ ________ ________ ________
At 1 April 2004 33.3 10.0 233.7 277.0
Proceeds from exercise of options under Executive 0.1 3.2 - 3.3
Share Option/Sharesave Schemes
Profit for the year - - 68.1 68.1
Exchange difference on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings - - (0.1) (0.1)
Dividends - - (47.0) (47.0)
________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 33.4 13.2 254.7 301.3
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
Share Share Profit Merger Total
capital premium and loss reserve
account
£m £m £m £m £m
Company
At 1 April 2003 (as previously reported) 33.3 9.3 151.8 442.9 637.3
Prior year adjustment (see below) - - (1.0) - (1.0)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 1 April 2003 (restated) 33.3 9.3 150.8 442.9 636.3
Proceeds from exercise of options under Executive - 0.7 - - 0.7
Share Option/Sharesave Schemes
Profit for the year - - 28.2 - 28.2
Disposal of investment in own shares - - 1.0 - 1.0
Dividends - - (44.8) - (44.8)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 1 April 2004 33.3 10.0 135.2 442.9 621.4
Proceeds from exercise of options under Executive 0.1 3.2 - - 3.3
Share Option/Sharesave Schemes
Profit for the year - - 18.9 - 18.9
Dividends - - (47.0) - (47.0)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
At 31 March 2005 33.4 13.2 107.1 442.9 596.6
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
The prior year adjustment relates to a change in accounting policy for own shares held under trust to comply with the requirements of
UITF 38 which became effective on 22 June 2004.  UITF 38 requires own shares held under trust to be deducted in arriving at
shareholders’ funds.  Previously own shares held under trust were presented as fixed asset investments. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 61
25. Pension Commitments
Most employees of the Group are members of the VGPS.  This has three sections: "Options" which is a money purchase arrangement
whereby the Group matches members’ contributions up to a maximum of 6% of salary, "Focus" which provides benefits based on
pensionable salary at retirement or earlier exit from service and the “Public Sector” section, which provides final salary related
benefits for certain employees who have joined from the public sector under outsourcing contracts.  In addition, there is a money
purchase arrangement for employees in the RoI known as Choices; its benefits mirror those of the Options section of VGPS.  The
assets of the schemes are held under trust and invested by the trustees on the advice of professional investment managers.
The pension cost for the year in respect of benefits under the schemes was £17.4m (2004 - £15.8m).  The Group’s contributions to
the schemes totalled £17.4m (2004 - £15.8m).  A prepayment of £8.9m is included in the balance sheet at 31 March 2005 (2004 -
£8.9m).  This represents the difference between the amounts funded and the amounts charged to the profit and loss account.  
The net pension charge in respect of the Focus and Public Sector sections of VGPS is derived from a regular cost of 14.9% of
salaries, increased by a variation charge of £7.7m, which represents the amortisation of the pension deficit over 15 years, the
average remaining service life of employees as at 31 March 2003.  The pension cost has been determined in accordance with the
advice of Hewitt, the schemes’ actuaries, based on the latest actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2003.  For accounting purposes, the
projected unit method was adopted, and the most significant actuarial assumptions were that investment returns at 7.6% per annum
pre-retirement would exceed general salary increases by 4.0% per annum and investment returns of 6.1% per annum post-
retirement would exceed future pension increases by 3.4% per annum.
The market value of the Focus and Public Sector sections’ assets as at 31 March 2003 was £593m.  The actuarial value of the
assets represented 87% of the actuarial value of the accrued benefits.  The accrued benefits include all benefits for pensioners and
other former members as well as benefits based on completed service and projected salaries for active members.  The Group is
making contributions to make the deficit good over the remaining service life of the employees at the rates recommended by Hewitt.
FRS 17 disclosures
Hewitt have provided a valuation of the Focus and Public Sector sections under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits as at 31 March 2005
using updated financial assumptions and market values from the 2003 actuarial valuation and the projected unit method.  The
valuation shows a deficit (before deferred tax) of £168.6m (2004 - £168.6m).  The major assumptions used were (in nominal terms):
2005 2004 2003
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.9% per annum 3.9% per annum 3.6% per annum
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0% per annum 3.0% per annum 2.7% per annum
Discount rate 5.3% per annum 5.5% per annum 5.4% per annum
Inflation assumption 2.9% per annum 2.9% per annum 2.6% per annum Notes to the Accounts 62
25. Pension Commitments (Continued)
The assets in the Focus and Public Sector sections and the expected rate of return were:
Value at Expected Value at Expected Value at Expected
31 March rate of 31 March rate of 31 March rate of
2005 return 2004 return 2003 return
£m % £m % £m %
Equities 407.2 7.0 390.8 7.2 380.0 7.1
Bonds 294.4 5.3 277.8 5.5 206.0 5.4
Other 2.1 4.5 1.4 4.7 7.0 4.6
________ ________ ________
Total market value of assets 703.7 670.0 593.0
Actuarial value of liabilities (872.3) (838.6) (787.0)
________ ________ ________
Deficit in the Scheme (168.6) (168.6) (194.0)
________ ________ ________
Net pension liability (before deferred tax asset) (168.6) (168.6) (194.0)
Related deferred tax asset 50.6 50.6 58.2
________ ________ ________
Net pension liability (118.0) (118.0) (135.8)
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Net assets and reserves of the Group under FRS 17 would be as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Net assets
Net assets 301.3 277.0
Less SSAP 24 pension prepayment (8.9) (8.9)
FRS 17 pension liability (118.0) (118.0)
________ ________
Net assets including FRS 17 pension liability 174.4 150.1
________ ________
________ ________
Reserves
Profit and loss reserve 254.7 233.7
Less SSAP 24 pension prepayment (8.9) (8.9)
FRS 17 pension liability (118.0) (118.0)
________ ________
Profit and loss reserve including FRS 17 pension liability 127.8 106.8
________ ________
________ ________
Movement in pension deficit during the year 2005 2004
£m £m
Opening deficit (168.6) (194.0)
Movement in year:
Current service cost (11.3) (11.5)
Contributions 17.4 15.8
Curtailment loss (2.3) (8.6)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1.0) 33.5
Other financial charge (2.8) (3.8)
________ ________
Closing deficit (168.6) (168.6)
________ ________
________ ________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 63
25. Pension Commitments (Continued)
An analysis of the pension cost for the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004 under FRS 17 is shown below. In addition
to maintaining the current level of contributions, it is proposed to make an additional contribution of £25m to the pension scheme
during the financial year 2005/06.
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit:
Current service cost (11.3) (11.5)
Curtailment loss (2.3) (8.6)
________ ________
Total operating charge (before capitalisation) (13.6) (20.1)
________ ________
________ ________
2005 2004
£m £m
Other finance income:
Expected return on pension scheme assets 42.6 37.8
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (45.4) (41.6)
________ ________
Net charge (2.8) (3.8)
________ ________
________ ________
The Focus section of the VGPS is now closed to new members and therefore under the projected unit method the current service
cost for members of this section will increase as they approach retirement age.  The overall service cost will also reflect membership
of the defined contribution sections.
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 21.0 66.4
Experience loss arising on pension scheme liabilities (4.4) (10.7)
Loss arising from changes in assumptions underlying the present value of pension scheme liabilities (17.6) (22.2)
________ ________
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (1.0) 33.5
________ ________
________ ________
History of experience gains and losses:
2005 2004 2003
Difference between the expected and actual return on pension scheme assets:
Amount (£ million) 21.0 66.4 (243.0)
Percentage of pension scheme assets 3% 10% 41%
Experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities:
Amount (£ million) (4.4) (10.7) 18.0
Percentage of present value of pension scheme liabilities 1% 1% 3%
Total actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£ million) (1.0) 33.5 (291.9)
Percentage of present value of pension scheme liabilities 0% 4% 37% Notes to the Accounts 64
26. Lease Obligations
The annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Group
Plant and Equipment Land and Buildings
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Expiring:
Within one year 0.2 0.6 0.2 -
In two to five years 1.1 0.8 0.1 0.3
In over five years - 0.1 1.1 0.9
________ ________ ________ ________
1.3 1.5 1.4 1.2
________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________
27. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
(a) Capital commitments
Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Contracted future capital expenditure 8.9 14.3
________ ________
________ ________
(b) Other contractual commitments
NIE entered into power purchase agreements with generating companies in Northern Ireland in March 1992 to make payments for
the availability of generating capacity as well as for the purchase of electricity generated.  The principal remaining contracts are with
Premier Power Ltd (Ballylumford) and AES Kilroot Power Ltd (Kilroot).  The Ballylumford contracts expire in 2012 but NIE has options
to extend them by up to 10 years.  The Kilroot contracts expire in 2024 but NIAER has early contract cancellation rights that can be
exercised from November 2010. 
In December 2000 a number of the contracts at Ballylumford were renegotiated and in addition a contract buy-out (CBO) agreement
was entered into to make payments to fund a buy-out of the profit element under the original agreements at Ballylumford.  The CBO
agreement has provisions under which a termination amount becomes payable in certain circumstances.  The extent of the payment
will depend on the date on which such a termination event arises.  NIE does not anticipate that any liability will arise and no provision
has been made.
In July 2003 NIE agreed to sell 170MW of capacity to ESB in the RoI through the North-South interconnector which links the
Northern Ireland and RoI electricity systems, having contracted to purchase this capacity from units no longer under long-term
contract at Ballylumford.
NIE has also entered into the following agreements:
(i) agreements to purchase output from renewable generators which were concluded under NFFO Orders and which expire between
2009 and 2013; and
(ii) an agreement with Moyle Interconnector Limited which secures 125MW of capacity on the Moyle Interconnector until 2007 which
facilitates the purchase of energy from GB to supply Northern Ireland customers.
In order to meet their wholesale and retail supply commitments, Viridian Energy Ltd and Viridian Energy Supply Ltd have entered into
a portfolio of power purchase and capacity agreements which expire between 2005 and 2018. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 65
27. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (Continued)
Letters of credit, performance bonds and guarantees
Group companies have entered into letters of credit, performance bonds and guarantees totalling £70.4m (2004 - £39.7m) in
relation to the trading activities of NIE, Powerteam, VP&E and Sx3.  In addition, Group companies have guaranteed:
(i) Viridian Energy Ltd’s obligations under its FPESA with Huntstown Power Company Ltd for a period of 15 years;
(ii) 85% of Viridian Energy Supply Ltd’s obligations under a power purchase agreement with Altahullion Windfarm Ltd for a period
of 15 years.  Since this guarantee has been given in respect of the purchase of future wind generated power, it is not possible
to provide a reliable quantification of the amount of the guarantee;
(iii) Viridian Power Ltd’s obligations to Mitsubishi Corporation under the Huntstown 2 EPC contract, which at 31 March 2005
amounted to €1m; and
(iv) Viridian Energy Supply Ltd’s obligations under a power purchase agreement with Windfarm Developments Ltd.  Since this
guarantee has been given in respect of the purchase of future wind generated power, it is not possible to provide a reliable
quantification of the amount of the guarantee.
The Group does not anticipate that any liability will arise thereunder and no provision has been made.
The Company has entered into guarantees totalling £29.6m (2004 - £32.3m) in relation to the trading activities of VP&E and a letter
of credit for £7.1m (2004 - £3.3m) in relation to the bank loan associated with Huntstown 1.  In addition, the Company has
guaranteed the obligations referred to in (i) to (iii) above.
The Company does not anticipate that any liability will arise thereunder and no provision has been made.
(c) Contingent liabilities
Protected Persons
The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of obligations under the Electricity (Protected Persons) Pensions Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1992 for employees of NIE at privatisation.  This includes members employed in companies which have
subsequently been disposed of by the Group.  The Group does not anticipate that any liability will arise other than that recognised 
in the accounts.
Power station sites
NIE lease sites to power stations in Northern Ireland.  Under the terms of the lease agreements NIE may be required to pay
compensation if a lease is terminated.  Since the extent of the compensation will depend on the circumstances which give rise to the
termination it is not possible to identify the magnitude of any potential liability.  NIE does not anticipate that any liability for
compensation will arise and no provision has been made.
Power station agreements
Under the terms of the power station agreements between NIE and generators in Northern Ireland, where modifications to generating
equipment are necessary and a generator is unable to procure the necessary financing, NIE must either provide such finance or pay
the costs incurred by the generator in carrying out such modifications.  The costs incurred by NIE in meeting these obligations are
recoverable under its Licence, but will require to be financed by NIE until such recovery is achieved.  NIE does not anticipate any
modifications which require financing and no provision has been made.
Property clawback
A clawback debenture was entered into in 1993 which entitled DETI to a proportion of any property gain (above certain thresholds)
accruing or treated as accruing to the Company or any member of the Group as a result of disposals, or events treated as disposals
(deemed disposals), occurring after 31 March 1993 in relation to land and any buildings on that land in which NIE had an interest at
31 March 1993.  These arrangements lasted until 31 March 2003.
A provision for clawback in respect of property disposals would be made only to the extent that it is probable that a liability will
crystallise.  Such a liability may crystallise when an actual or deemed disposal occurs.
NIE is in dispute with DETI in connection with valuations relating to the possibility of any clawback liability payable to DETI as a result
of disposal by NIE of property at its Danesfort site and of some other retail properties.  The parties have agreed that the dispute
should be determined by an independent expert under the terms of the clawback debenture. Notes to the Accounts 66
28. Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Operating Cash Flows
2005 2004
£m £m
Operating profit 111.0 100.8
Depreciation charges 54.5 48.4
Amortisation of goodwill 2.2 2.2
Write down of investment 0.1 -
Amortisation of development expenditure 2.3 2.4
Profit on disposal of assets - (0.5)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 8.8 (3.1)
Decrease/(increase) in stock 4.1 (2.7)
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (25.6) 3.0
Increase in creditors 37.4 16.8
________ ________
Net cash inflow from operating activities 194.8 167.3
________ ________
________ ________
29. Analysis of Cash Headings Netted in the Cash Flow Statement
2005 2004
£m £m
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 4.0 1.8
Interest paid (27.6) (28.6)
________ ________
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (23.6) (26.8)
________ ________
________ ________
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets (99.6) (95.6)
Contributions in respect of tangible fixed assets 15.8 13.4
Receipts from sale of tangible fixed assets 0.7 1.6
Other investment - (0.1)
________ ________
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (83.1) (80.7)
________ ________
________ ________
Acquisitions and disposals
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings - 29.1
Inter-group loans discharged with disposal of subsidiary undertakings - 106.5
________ ________
Net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals - 135.6
________ ________
________ ________
Management of liquid resources
Increase in bank deposits (35.5) (19.0)
Decrease in short-term managed funds 0.6 3.5
________ ________
Net cash outflow from management of liquid resources (34.9) (15.5)
________ ________
________ ________
Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 3.3 0.7
Receipts from loans 52.2 1.7
Repayment of loans (51.3) (117.6)
Repayment of loan notes - (6.0)
Sale of own shares - 1.0
________ ________
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing 4.2 (120.2)
________ ________
________ ________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 67
30. Analysis of Net Debt
At 1 April Cash Non cash Translation At 31 March
2004 flow movement difference 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 10.6 (6.7) - 0.1 4.0
Debt due within one year (5.6) 4.4 (5.9) (0.2) (7.3)
Debt due after more than one year (435.1) (5.3) 5.9 (4.6) (439.1)
Current asset investments 47.5 34.9 - 0.2 82.6
Loan notes (0.1) - - - (0.1)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
(382.7) 27.3 - (4.5) (359.9)
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Current asset investments are regarded as liquid resources for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
31. Financial Instruments
An explanation of the Group’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of financial instruments can be found in the Financial
Review.  The disclosures below exclude short-term debtors and creditors.
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
Interest rate and currency profile:
As at 31 March Total financial Total non Total floating
assets interest bearing rate
£m £m £m
2005: Sterling 86.7 2.4 84.3
Euro 10.9 - 10.9
_______________ _______________ _______________
Total 97.6 2.4 95.2
_______________ _______________ _______________
_______________ _______________ _______________
2004: Sterling 58.8 2.5 56.3
Euro 11.5 - 11.5
_______________ _______________ _______________
Total 70.3 2.5 67.8
_______________ _______________ _______________
_______________ _______________ _______________
Non-interest bearing financial assets comprise loan notes from the sale of Open + Direct Consumer Financial Services in the year
ended 31 March 2003, other investments and other debtors.  The Sterling and Euro floating rate financial assets comprise monies on
deposit earning interest based on LIBID and EUROBID respectively together with loan notes arising from (i) the sale of Open + Direct
Consumer Financial Services in the year ended 31 March 2003 and (ii) the sale of the Group’s shareholding in nevada in the year
ended 31 March 2003, in both cases earning interest based on LIBOR.   Notes to the Accounts 68
31. Financial Instruments (Continued)
Financial liabilities
Interest rate and currency profile taking into account interest rate swaps:
As at 31 March Total Total Total Weighted Weighted 
financial floating fixed average average
liabilities rate rate interest period for
rate which rate
is fixed
£m £m £m % Years
2005: Sterling 276.6 100.1 176.5 6.87 13.3
Euro 169.9 33.3 136.6 6.41 12.5
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Total 446.5 133.4 313.1 6.67 13.0
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
2004: Sterling 273.0 100.1 172.9 6.88 14.5
Euro 167.8 32.8 135.0 6.41 13.5
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
Total 440.8 132.9 307.9 6.68 14.1
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________ ________ ________
The Sterling floating rate financial liabilities comprise loan notes and Sterling denominated bank borrowings bearing interest based on
LIBOR.  The Euro floating rate financial liabilities comprise Euro denominated bank borrowings bearing interest based on EURIBOR.
Foreign currency risk
Borrowings denominated in Euro have been used to offset the impact on the Group's balance sheet of exchange rate movements on
fixed assets relating to Huntstown 1.  Financial instruments, primarily forward exchange contracts, have been used to hedge foreign
currency exposures into functional currencies for periods up to two years.
Commodity price risk
Financial instruments, primarily commodity swap contracts, have been used to hedge commodity price exposure for periods up to two
years.
Interest rate risk
Financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, have been used to hedge interest rate exposures with maturities up to 2017.
Hedges
Changes in the fair value of instruments used as hedges are not recognised in the accounts until the hedged position matures.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging, and the movements therein, are as follows: Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Notes to the Accounts 69
31. Financial Instruments (Continued)
Losses Profits Unrecognised
on on total net
hedges hedges losses
£m £m £m
Profits/(losses) on hedges at 1 April 2003 (17.9) 0.1 (17.8)
Profits/(losses) arising in previous years included 7.0 (0.1) 6.9
in current year profit and loss account
________ ________ ________
Profits/(losses) arising before 1 April 2003 not (10.9) - (10.9)
included in current year profit and loss account
Profits/(losses) arising in the year (5.9) 3.3 (2.6)
________ ________ ________
Net profits/(losses) on hedges at 1 April 2004 (16.8) 3.3 (13.5)
Profits/(losses) arising in previous years included 5.5 (2.9) 2.6
in current year profit and loss account
________ ________ ________
Profits/(losses) arising before 1 April 2004 not (11.3) 0.4 (10.9)
included in current year profit and loss account
Profits/(losses) arising in the year (6.9) 6.9 -
________ ________ ________
Net profits/(losses) on hedges at 31 March 2005 (18.2) 7.3 (10.9)
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Of which:
Profits/(losses) expected to be recognised in 2005/06 (5.3) 5.8 0.5
Profits/(losses) expected to be recognised in 2006/07 or later (12.9) 1.5 (11.4)
________ ________ ________
(18.2) 7.3 (10.9)
________ ________ ________
________ ________ ________
Fair value
The estimated fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value
Note 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Assets
Investments/cash at bank and in hand 1 86.8 58.4 86.8 58.4
Loan notes 2 10.2 11.9 10.2 11.9
Other debtors 2 0.6 - 0.6 -
Liabilities
Short-term debt 3 (7.4) (5.7) (7.4) (5.7)
Long-term debt 4 (439.1) (435.1) (460.8) (454.3)
Financial instruments
Commodity swap contracts 5 - - 4.5 0.9
Interest rate swap contracts 5 - - (17.1) (15.3)
Forward currency contracts 6 - - 1.7 0.9
1. The fair value of investments/cash at bank and in hand approximates to carrying value due to the short maturity of instruments
held.
2. The fair value of loan notes and other debtors has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing
interest rates.
3. The fair value of short-term debt has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
4. The fair value of the Eurobond at the reporting date has been estimated at quoted market rates and the fair value of other items
has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
5. Market value has been used to determine the fair values of swap contracts.
6. Market value has been used to determine the fair values of forward currency contracts. Notes to the Accounts 70
31. Financial Instruments (Continued)
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2005 was as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
In one year or less, or on demand 7.4 5.7
In more than one year but not more than two years 7.3 45.0
In more than two years but not more than five years 161.9 19.5
In more than five years 269.9 370.6
________ ________
446.5 440.8
________ ________
________ ________
Borrowing facilities
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.  The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 March 2005 in respect of
which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Expiring in less than one year - 11.5
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years - 165.6
Expiring in more than two years 185.6 -
________ ________
185.6 177.1
________ ________
________ ________
32. Related Party Transactions
On 14 April 2003 the Group disposed of the Moyle Interconnector.  During the year ended 31 March 2004 the Group incurred
charges of £6.1m for use of system and capacity charges.  At 31 March 2004 the amount owing to Moyle Interconnector Ltd 
was £nil.
The Moyle Interconnector Ltd was not a related party during the year ended 31 March 2005.
33. Post Balance Sheet Event
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of Sx3 to Northgate for £155m. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Shareholder Information 71
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholder Enquiries
All enquiries about individual shareholder matters should be
made to the Registrars at:
Capita Registrars
Shareholder Services Department
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU 
Shareholder helpline: 0870 162 3100
Shareholder fax: 0208 639 2342
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
The Registrars will deal with any queries regarding:
shareholdings, dividends, lost share certificates, change of
name or address or death of a shareholder.  All correspondence
should be clearly marked “Viridian Group PLC” and quote the
full name and address in which the shares are registered. 
On-line Shareholder Services
Shareholders can access the following on-line services:
• Share dealing service 
• Access to personal shareholding (including transaction
history)
• Change of address
• Record or alter a dividend mandate instruction
• Download forms
• Share valuations and market information
• Access to frequently asked questions
To find out more about these services and to register simply log
on to www.shareholder.viridiangroup.co.uk and follow the
instructions.  When you register as a new user, a letter will be
despatched to your registered address with your one-off
activation code which is required for the first time you log on to
this service.  
Share Dealing Service
Capita IRG Trustees Ltd provide a quick and easy share dealing
service.  On-line and telephone dealing facilities are available to
buy or sell the Company’s ordinary shares.  For further
information, or to buy or sell shares, contact:
On-line dealing: www.capitadeal.com
Telephone dealing: 0870 458 4577
Dividend Payments
Arrangements can be made for the payment of any future
dividends directly into a bank or building society account by
writing to the Registrars at the above address stating the name
and address of the bank/building society, the sort code and
account number.  Alternatively, you will find a form of mandate
attached to your last dividend mailing which you may complete
and return to the Registrars.  
AGM
The AGM will be held in The King’s Hall Exhibition and
Conference Centre, Belfast BT9 6GW on 8 July 2005 at 
10.00 am.  The Notice and explanatory notes in relation to the
meeting are enclosed.
Key Dates
8 July 2005 AGM
12 August 2005 Record date for final dividend
9 September 2005 Payment of final dividend (25.34p)
November 2005 Announcement of interim results for the
year ending 31 March 2006
May 2006 Preliminary announcement of results for 
the year ending 31 March 2006
Unsolicited Mail
As the Company’s share register is open to public inspection,
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations
which use it as a mailing list.  You can limit the amount of
unsolicited mail you receive by registering with the Mailing
Preference Service.  You can register on-line at
www.mpsonline.org.uk or request an application form by calling
0845 703 4599 or writing to Mailing Preference Service,
Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.  You may, however,
continue to receive mail from organisations which do not
support this service.
10,001-49,999 (4.04%)
1-500 (18.10%)
Range of shareholders
% of issued share capital
501-10,000 (12.03%)
50,000+ (65.83%)
Private (including employees) (27.86%)
Private / Institutional shareholders
% of issued share capital
Institutions (72.14%) Glossary of Terms 72
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
1992 Order Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992
1999 Act Electricity Regulation Act 1999
2002 Act Gas (Interim) (Regulation) Act 
2002
2003 Electricity Directive Directive 2003/54/EC of the
European Parliament and of the
Council of 26 June 2003
2003 Order Energy (Northern Ireland) Order
2003
ABI Association of British Insurers
AGM Annual General Meeting
BST Bulk Supply Tariff
CBO contract buy-out
CCGT combined cycle gas turbine
CER Commission for Energy Regulation
CHP combined heat and power
CIP Co-investment Plan
CO
2
carbon dioxide 
Code Combined Code on Corporate
Governance
Company Viridian Group PLC
CPP Complementary Pension Plan
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DCMNR Department of Communications,
Marine and Natural Resources
DETI Department of Enterprise, Trade
and Investment
EPC engineering procurement contract
ESB Electricity Supply Board
ESCo Energy Services Company
EU ETS European Union Emissions Trading
Scheme
FPESA fuel purchase and energy sale
agreement
FRS Financial Reporting Standard
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles
GCCNI General Consumer Council for
Northern Ireland
Group Viridian Group PLC and its
subsidiary undertakings
GWh gigawatt hour
HSENI Health & Safety Executive for
Northern Ireland
Huntstown 1 Huntstown power station (phase
one)
Huntstown 2 Huntstown power station (phase
two)
IAS International Accounting Standard
IFRS International Financial Reporting
Standards
IIP Investors in People
IPC Integrated Pollution Control
LEU large energy users
Licence NIE’s Transmission and Public
Electricity Supply licence
Minister Minister for Communications,
Marine and Natural Resources
Moyle Interconnector electricity interconnector between
Northern Ireland and Scotland
MW megawatt
NFFO Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation
NIAER Northern Ireland Authority for
Energy Regulation
NIE Northern Ireland Electricity
Northgate Northgate Information Solutions plc
North-South interconnector electricity interconnector between
Northern Ireland and Republic of
Ireland
Orders Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 as amended by the Energy
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003
PES public electricity supply
PPB Power Procurement business
PPR performance, planning and review
PSO public service obligation
PSP Performance Share Plan
ROC Renewable Obligation Certificate
ROCE return on capital employed
RoI Republic of Ireland
RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents
RPI Retail Price Index
SCC Supply Competition Code
SEE social, ethical and environmental
SIP Share Incentive Plan
SMART Sustainable Management of Assets
and Renewable Technologies
SME small to medium-sized enterprise
SONI System Operator Northern Ireland 
Limited
Special Share special rights non-voting
redeemable preference share of £1
SSAP Statement of Standard Accounting
Practice (UK)
SSS system support services
Sx3 Service and Systems Solutions
T&D transmission and distribution
TSR total shareholder return
TWh terawatt hours
UITF Urgent Issues Task Force
VGPS Viridian Group Pension Scheme
VIPP virtual independent power
producer
Viridian Viridian Group PLC
VP&E Viridian Power & Energy
WISE Women into Science and
Engineering
