 ANNUAL REPORT
& ACCOUNTS
05-06 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Contents 1
CONTENTS
Page
Group Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 3
Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
Board of Directors 7
Directors’ Report and Operating and Financial Review 8
Operating Review 8
Financial Review 17
Corporate Governance Report 21
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27
Directors’ Remuneration Report 32
Directors’ Report 39
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41
Independent Auditors' Report 42
Group Income Statement 43
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 43
Balance Sheets 44
Cash Flow Statements 45
Notes to the Accounts 46
Shareholder Information 93
Glossary of Terms 94 Group Financial Highlights 2
Underlying Business Results
• Pro-forma operating profit
1
increased 11% to £132.4m 
(2005 - £119.1m)
• Pro-forma earnings per share
2
increased 24% to 68.2p 
(2005 - 55.0p)
Statutory Results
• Revenue
3
increased to £976.8m (2005 - £835.4m)
• Operating profit
3
of £149.0m (2005 - £103.3m)
• Exceptional gain of £108.9m on disposal of Sx3
• Return of capital of £97.9m successfully completed
• Basic earnings per share
3
of 74.4p (2005 - 45.7p)
• A 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per share which,
together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, gives a total of
36.89p, a 4.9% increase over 2004/05
1
Based on continuing operations and regulated entitlement as described more
fully in the Financial Review.
2
Pre deferred tax and based on continuing operations and regulated
entitlement as described more fully in the Financial Review.
3
Based on continuing operations.
All references in this document to “Group” denote Viridian Group PLC and its
subsidiary undertakings and to “Company” denote Viridian Group PLC, the parent
company.
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Dipesh Shah
Chairman (non-executive)
Patrick Haren
Group Chief Executive
Patrick Bourke
Group Finance Director
Harry McCracken
Group Managing Director Viridian Power & Energy
Laurence MacKenzie
Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Chairman’s Statement 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DIPESH SHAH
I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a very good set
of results.  Our regulated businesses in Northern Ireland have each
delivered strong performances while meeting the demands of their
price controls.  Viridian Power & Energy (VP&E) maintained high
availability from the Huntstown 1 plant, construction of Huntstown 2
has started and remains on target for commissioning in autumn
2007 and Energia continues to grow its supply position, particularly
in the Republic of Ireland (RoI).  Powerteam also increased its
contribution to the Group’s results during the year.  
In December 2005, the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy
Regulation (NIAER) published initial proposals for the next price
control for the Transmission & Distribution (T&D) business which will
be effective from April 2007 to March 2012.  The proposals reflect a
period of constructive dialogue with NIAER aimed at delivering a
price control which strengthens efficiency incentives and gives a
balanced outcome for customers and shareholders.  We expect
NIAER to issue final proposals shortly.
We realised an exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of £108.9m.  The
£97.9m return of capital to shareholders, announced in conjunction
with the disposal of Sx3, was successfully completed.
Our strategy is strongly focused on our energy businesses in Ireland:
• Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) - maximising the efficiency of
our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our
business; and
• VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in
competitive markets across Ireland.
Our goal remains to deliver shareholder value through consistent
performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Financial Results
The Group’s annual results have been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the first time, with prior
year comparatives restated.
Revenue from continuing operations increased from £835.4m to
£976.8m due to increased revenue from NIE and VP&E.
Pro-forma operating profit from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement) increased by 11% from £119.1m to £132.4m.
Pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement and pre deferred tax) increased by 24% to
68.2p (2005 - 55.0p), reflecting the increase in pro-forma operating
profit, a lower net finance charge and a higher tax charge as well as
the effect of the 9 for 10 share consolidation implemented with the
return of capital.  In line with the treatment adopted in previous
years (and as further explained in the Financial Review), pro-forma
operating profit and earnings per share exclude the effect of either
over- or under-recovery of NIE’s regulated entitlement. 
Net debt decreased to £310.0m at 31 March 2006 from £366.7m at
31 March 2005.
Dividends
We recommend a 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per
share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, amounts
to a total of 36.89p for the year, a 4.9% increase on last year.  This
is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across
the current T&D regulatory period.
Board
John Biles, formerly Finance Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a
non-executive director in August 2005.  In October 2005, he was
appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.  In March 2006,
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure,
joined the Board as an executive director, having been a member of
the Executive Committee since 2003.  Both are already making a
significant contribution to the Board.   
Employees
I would like to highlight again the individual commitment and
performance of our employees.  The Group’s continuing success is
dependent on them.  Across the Group, they have continued to work
hard, effectively and with dedication, while implementing significant
change.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our
employees for their valued input throughout the past year.
Looking Forward
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of
our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this year’s
results. Companies across the Group are preparing for the challenge
of the Single Electricity Market (SEM), the new all-island wholesale
market, in 2007.  We await the final T&D price control proposals
from NIAER.  VP&E is growing its customer base in anticipation of
the commissioning of Huntstown 2.  
Dipesh J. Shah
23 May 2006 Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PATRICK HAREN
The Group has delivered a strong set of results with pro-forma
operating profit from continuing operations (based on regulated
entitlement) increasing from £119.1m to £132.4m.
NIE’s businesses have each delivered strong performances.  NIE’s
focus remains on cost reduction and efficiency while also ensuring
quality of service to our customers.
NIAER’s review of T&D’s next price control, which takes effect from
April 2007, is well underway following the publication of initial
proposals in December 2005 and we await final proposals.  We 
also await the outcome of NIAER’s review of the price controls for
Power Procurement Business (PPB) and the transmission system
operator, SONI, which were both due to be reset with effect from 
1 April 2006.
VP&E’s profit contribution for the year reduced slightly to £24.1m
(2005 - £25.0m) due to lower operating margins for Energia, offset
by higher sales volumes and an active trading strategy in the winter
period.  Energia now has 22,400 (2005 - 15,300) business
customers across Ireland, this growth coming from customers in the
small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) sector.
The SEM, the new all-island electricity wholesale market, is
scheduled to start in July 2007.  SONI is working with its RoI
counterpart, ESB National Grid (Eirgrid), NIAER and the Commission
for Energy Regulation (CER) in the RoI to set up the new market.
Other Group businesses are actively participating in consultations on
the market design and rules as well as reviewing their own
processes and systems to identify any changes required.
Northern Ireland Electricity
Transmission and Distribution
T&D revenues (based on regulated entitlement) increased by £0.9m
mainly due to higher income associated with the recovery of market
opening costs, offset by lower price control revenues.  Based on
regulated entitlement, T&D reported profits of £83.2m compared to
£73.9m last year.  Profits benefited from a change in the method of
depreciation for infrastructure assets which brings T&D into line with
the majority of UK distribution network operators (DNOs).  Before 
31 March 2005, T&D infrastructure assets were depreciated at 3%
per annum for the first 20 years followed by 2% per annum for the
remaining 20 years.  Since 1 April 2005, new assets are being
depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years and existing assets
on a straight-line basis over their remaining life.  This change
resulted in a reduction of £4.5m in T&D’s depreciation charge from
what it otherwise would have been.  Profits also benefited from
reductions in operating costs and the absence of certain
restructuring and reorganisation costs incurred last year.  In
particular, cost savings were achieved as a result of centralising
customer call handling at our distribution control centre in
Craigavon; this included the transfer to T&D of some services
previously provided by Sx3.  Cost efficiencies also resulted from a
lower headcount.
While we continually exert downward pressure on T&D’s costs, this
is not at the expense of standards of service to our customers.
During the year, all the overall standards set by NIAER were
achieved and there were no defaults against the guaranteed
standards.  We fully recognise our responsibility to maintain and
operate a safe and reliable network. 
We continue to make substantial investment in our infrastructure
assets.  Network capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March
2006 was in line with the regulatory allowance.  Total capital
expenditure (before customer contributions), including expenditure
on customer service systems, other non-network assets and new
systems required to support market opening in Northern Ireland,
was £73.5m (2005 - £72.5m).  The T&D regulatory asset base
(RAB) at 31 March 2006 was £783m (2005 - £754m).
In December 2005, NIAER published initial proposals for the next
T&D price control, which will be effective from April 2007 to March
2012 (RP4).  The key aspects of the proposals are described below:
Rate of return - NIAER proposes to adopt the precedent established
in the 2005 DNO review for the post tax rate of return to be allowed
on the distribution portion of T&D’s RAB (which is taken to represent
82% of the overall RAB) but to apply a lower rate to the 18%
representing the transmission portion.  This results in a blended rate
of 4.78% post tax real.  This compares to the existing rate of return
of 4.55% post tax real (corresponding to 6.5% pre tax real).
The proposed rate of return for the distribution portion of the RAB
would either decrease or remain unchanged for the last two years of
RP4 depending on the outcome of the next DNO review in 2010.
The rate of return on the transmission portion would remain
unchanged.
Controllable costs - the allowance for each year of RP4 would be set
equal to the RPI-indexed level of actual costs incurred during the
corresponding year in RP3 (April 2002 - March 2007).  This is
subject to some specific reductions in 2007/08 and 2008/09 and
also a small disallowance in respect of early retirement pension
deficiency costs.
The allowance for controllable costs would be further reduced if the
T&D price in any year of RP4 would otherwise exceed a price cap of
1.81p/kWh (in 2004/05 prices).
Capital expenditure - T&D has proposed capital expenditure of
£326m in RP4 compared to £257m in the current price control
period (both figures in 2004/05 prices).  This investment is driven by
the need to replace worn assets and to meet continued growth in
customer demand.  These proposals have been the subject of review
during the early part of 2006 by consultants appointed by NIAER.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Group Chief Executive’s Review 5
Other - NIE would be committed to funding a £1m vulnerable
customer fund to help alleviate fuel poverty in Northern Ireland and
a further £1m to fund research focused on identifying the best long-
term options for development of the T&D network to accommodate
Government objectives on sustainability.  These costs would be
funded from NIE’s own resources.
NIAER outlined in the initial proposals that it expected to issue final
proposals in spring 2006; we await these shortly.
Power Procurement/SONI
Profits from PPB and SONI (based on regulated entitlement)
increased to £9.8m (2005 - £7.2m), reflecting increased entitlement
earned by PPB under its trading incentive together with the recovery
of certain costs which were provided for last year.  PPB’s
contribution from trading has been strong this year as the result of
operational difficulties at the independent Coolkeeragh CCGT plant,
which we do not expect to be repeated.
SONI is working jointly with Eirgrid, NIAER and CER to implement
the SEM.  The principal steps are: establishing a single market
operator through a contractual joint venture between SONI and
Eirgrid; setting up the necessary operational and commercial
interfaces between the two companies in their roles as transmission
system operator in each jurisdiction; and procuring the IT systems
required to operate the new market.  The capital costs are being
split 25% SONI, 75% Eirgrid.  SONI is receiving a rate of return on
its costs of 6.5% pre tax real.
NIE Supply
NIE Supply’s profits (based on regulated entitlement) increased to
£7.4m (2005 - £6.8m) due to lower operating costs and increased
incentive income from the administration of energy efficiency
programmes.  The business is making good progress in delivering
specific commitments linked to its price control in the areas of
keypad meter installation and the promotion of energy efficiency and
micro-renewables.  NIE Supply’s price control is due to be reset with
effect from 1 April 2007; we will be seeking to extend it by
agreement with NIAER.
Powerteam
Powerteam made steady progress during the year increasing its
profits to £4.6m (2005 - £3.8m) due to an increase in internal
income and improved margins; its main focus continues to be on
costs to T&D.  Over the last three years Powerteam’s external
business has been underpinned by a framework contract awarded in
June 2003 for the refurbishment of ESB’s medium voltage network.
This contract is due to end in June 2006.  Powerteam is developing
new revenue streams including further work with ESB, contracts for
the installation of windfarms in Ireland and overhead line and
substation contracts in Great Britain.
Viridian Power & Energy
VP&E has delivered a sound performance in the year.  Revenue
increased from £272.3m to £381.1m primarily due to volume growth
in the RoI, higher prices associated with rising fuel costs and sales
to gas customers.  Operating profit reduced slightly to £24.1m (2005
- £25.0m).
Generation
Huntstown 1 has performed well during 2005/06 achieving
availability (after both planned and unplanned outages) of 93.9%
(2005 - 92.5%).  The plant responded well to flexible despatch at
certain periods during the winter, as provided for in its design for
open-cycle as well as combined-cycle operation.  In April 2006,
Huntstown 1 incurred an unplanned outage lasting 19 days to repair
damage caused by a failed heat shield in the gas turbine.  This work
was successfully completed at the beginning of May.
At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1’s gas requirements for the seven
month period to October 2006 were c90% hedged.  We await the
outcome of CER’s consultation on tariff-setting mechanisms for
calendar year 2007 before taking any decisions on hedging beyond
October 2006.  At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1’s requirements for
CO
2
emission credits were fully covered for the year ending 
31 March 2007 by forward purchase contracts. 
The construction programme for Huntstown 2 is on track for
commissioning in autumn 2007 with capital expenditure of €27m as
at 31 March 2006.  Civil engineering works have proceeded well and
the main equipment is due to arrive on site during summer 2006.
Supply
In Northern Ireland, Energia’s sales increased from 1.5TWh to
1.6TWh, with customer sites maintained at 3,800 (2005 - 3,800)
notwithstanding some pressure on prices as the output from the new
Coolkeeragh CCGT was sold into the market.  Energia plans to
maintain its current level of volume sales in Northern Ireland. 
In the RoI, Energia increased its sales from 3.1TWh to 3.9TWh, with
customer sites increasing to 18,600 (2005 - 11,500), primarily
among SMEs.  Energia is growing its customer base to absorb the
future output of Huntstown 2. 
As indicated in the interim results, Energia has experienced pressure
on operating margins following the setting of electricity tariffs by CER
in the RoI for calendar year 2006, against a background of high gas
prices.  The effect of this has been partly offset by increased sales
and an active trading strategy.  The latter involved, inter alia,
increased purchases of electricity from ESB on a regulated
wholesale tariff at times of very high gas prices and additional
income from Huntstown 1 when despatched to meet system security
in the RoI. Group Chief Executive’s Review 6
We are making an active input into CER’s current consultations on
the appropriate level of RoI tariffs for calendar year 2007.  These
tariffs, which are published by ESB following agreement with CER,
set the benchmark for contracts between suppliers (such as Energia)
and customers participating in the competitive market.  We expect
the process to be challenging, given the level of forward gas prices
for winter 2006/07 and the planned introduction of the SEM halfway
through the tariff year.  We expect tariff proposals for the first six
months of 2007 to be issued at the beginning of September followed
by a final announcement in early October.
During the year, Energia started to supply a number of large
customers in the RoI with gas, generating revenues of £11m (14m
therms); annualised volume is c23m therms.
Renewable energy
Since 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland have been required
to source a proportion of their supply from renewable generation.
Energia currently has 33MW of windfarm capacity under contract
and is aiming to negotiate further contracts with windfarm
developers, either as offtake arrangements, or through direct
investment where projected returns are appropriate.  Windfarm
development in Northern Ireland has been slower than expected 
as a result of planning delays.
In April 2005 the RoI government announced details of a new
support mechanism for renewable energy.  Under the mechanism,
renewable generators will contract with suppliers at a fixed price 
and suppliers will benefit from support payments levied across all
customers.  Energia is assessing offtake contracts with windfarm
developers under this scheme, which only received final approval 
on 2 May 2006. 
Other Activities
Other profits of £3.9m (2005 - £2.5m) benefited from the 
disposal of property.  We do not anticipate any further significant
property disposals.
Patrick Haren
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Board of Directors 7
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
* - independent non-executive director    A - member of Audit Committee    E - member of Executive Committee    N - member of Nomination Committee    R - member of Remuneration Committee
Dipesh Shah (aged 53), 
Chairman (non-executive) (N)
Appointed non-executive
Chairman in May 2005.
Appointed as a non-executive
director in November 2003.  Chief
Executive of the United Kingdom
Atomic Energy Authority.  Non-
executive director of Babcock
International Group PLC and
Oxfordshire Economic Partnership
Limited.  Until late 2002 held a
number of senior positions within
BP plc, latterly as Vice President
and General Manager,
Acquisitions and Divestments and
formerly as chief executive of
several businesses within BP plc.
Patrick Haren (aged 55), 
Group Chief Executive (E, N)
Appointed Group Chief Executive
in February 1998.  Joined NIE as
Chief Executive in 1992.  He is a
non-executive director of Invest
Northern Ireland, the economic
development agency.  Previously
Director of New Business
Investment with ESB in the RoI
and Chairman of ESB
International.
Patrick Bourke (aged 49), 
Group Finance Director (E)
Joined as Group Finance Director
in September 2000.  Previously
Head of Mergers and Acquisitions
and then Group Treasurer at
Powergen plc.  He was formerly a
director of Barclays de Zoete
Wedd and qualified as a
chartered accountant with Peat
Marwick (now KPMG).
Harry McCracken (aged 56), 
Group Managing Director 
Viridian Power & Energy (E)
Appointed Group Managing
Director VP&E in February 2003.
Previously Managing Director NIE
with responsibility for the Group’s
regulated electricity businesses.
Joined NIE in 1970 as an
engineer and progressed to
Corporate Planning Manager 
prior to appointment to the 
Board of NIE as Operations
Director in 1992.
Duncan Lewis (aged 55), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in February 2002.  He
chairs the Remuneration
Committee and is the Board’s
Senior Independent Director.
Senior Advisor in
Telecommunications, Media and
Technology to the Carlyle Group.
Non-executive chairman of
SINOTEL, AlanDick Ltd and
Euphony Holdings Ltd.  Non-
executive director of the British
Library.  Non-executive director
and chairman of the audit
committee of CompleTel nv.
Formerly President and Chief
Operating Officer of GTS Inc,
Managing Director of Equant nv,
Chief Executive of Granada Media
Group and held a number of
managing director and chief
executive positions at Cable and
Wireless.  
Laurence MacKenzie (aged 44),
Managing Director 
Electricity Infrastructure (E) 
Appointed as an executive director
in March 2006.  Managing Director
of NIE’s Electricity Infrastructure
business (including T&D and
Powerteam) and member of the
Executive Committee since 2003.
Joined as Managing Director of
Powerteam in September 2000.
Previously a general manager in
power transformer manufacturing
with ABB.  He qualified as a
chartered accountant with Peat
Marwick (now KPMG).
Mike Toms (aged 52), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in November 2003.  He
chaired the Audit Committee until
October 2005.  Group Director,
Planning and Regulatory Affairs
at BAA PLC since 2001 and a
member of its executive treasury
committee.  Non-executive
director of UK Coal PLC, a
member of the Governing Board
of the Airports Council
International and a director of the
Airport Property Partnership.
Formerly held the positions of
Chief Economist and Director of
Corporate Strategy at BAA plc. 
John Biles (aged 58), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in August 2005.  He has
chaired the Audit Committee since
October 2005.  Non-executive
director and chairman of the audit
committee at Charter plc,
Chapelthorpe plc, ArmorGroup
International plc and Hermes
Pensions Management Ltd.
Formerly Finance Director of FKI
plc having previously been Group
Financial Director of Chubb
Security Plc following its demerger
from Racal Electronics Plc (Racal)
in 1992.  Before this he held
various financial director positions
within Racal.  He qualified as a
chartered accountant with Price
Waterhouse and Co. Operating Review 8
History and Development of the Business
NIE was incorporated in 1991 as a public limited company and was
subsequently listed in 1993.  It carries on four regulated businesses
in Northern Ireland: transmission and distribution of electricity
through T&D; power procurement through PPB; transmission 
system operation through SONI; and supply of electricity through
NIE Supply.
Viridian Group PLC (Viridian) was formed as a new holding company
in 1998 following a capital reorganisation under which Viridian
acquired NIE and the Group’s unregulated activities were 
separated from NIE.  Viridian is a public limited company 
registered in Northern Ireland, listed on both the London and 
Irish Stock Exchanges.  
Over the last four years, the Group has developed a substantial
position in the competitive electricity supply markets in both
Northern Ireland and the RoI, including a significant investment in
new generating plant in the RoI.  In conjunction with this
development, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses
including Open + Direct (financial services); nevada
(telecommunications joint venture); Moyle Interconnector (electricity
interconnector between Northern Ireland and Scotland); and Sx3
(software and IT services).  The activities of the Group are now
conducted through two principal businesses:
• NIE - regulated electricity businesses in Northern Ireland; and
• VP&E - generation in the RoI and supply in the competitive
electricity markets in both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
In addition, Powerteam provides high voltage electrical contracting
and other infrastructure services, principally to T&D, but also to a
range of other utility and industrial customers.
Regulation and Legislation
Northern Ireland
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is governed principally by
the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 (1992 Order) as
amended by the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 (2003 Order)
(together the Orders) and by the conditions of the licences which
have been granted under the 1992 Order. 
Privatisation and restructuring
The 1992 Order provided for the privatisation and restructuring of
the electricity industry in Northern Ireland in 1992 which included
the trade sale of power stations owned by NIE.  PPB was established
to administer the long-term power purchase contracts which were
put in place with the new owners of the power stations.  NIE
retained responsibility for the transmission, distribution and supply of
electricity.  A new regulatory framework was put in place to provide
for price regulation of NIE’s activities.
Regulation
NIAER and the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment
(DETI) are the principal regulators.  Each is given specific powers,
duties and functions under the Orders.  The functions of NIAER
include licensing (pursuant to a general authority given by DETI) and
the general supervision and enforcement of the licensing regime.
DETI’s functions include licensing, the giving of consents for new
power stations and overhead lines, fuel stocking, the encouragement
of renewable generation and the regulation of matters relating to the
quality and safety of electricity supply.
The regulators’ objectives and duties
The principal objective of both NIAER and DETI in carrying out their
functions in relation to electricity is to protect the interests of
consumers of electricity, wherever appropriate, by promoting
effective competition between those engaged in, or in commercial
activities connected with, the generation, transmission or supply of
electricity.  Each of NIAER and DETI has a duty to carry out its
functions in the manner which it considers is best calculated to
further this principal objective, having regard to a number of factors,
including the need to ensure that all reasonable demands for
electricity are met and that licensees are able to finance their
authorised activities.  In performing that duty they are required to
have regard to the interests of individuals whose circumstances
include being disabled, chronically sick or of pensionable age or
having low incomes or residing in rural areas.  They must also have
regard to the effect of the industry’s activities on the environment
and their role includes promoting energy efficiency.
The 2003 Order gives the Consumer Council responsibility for
representing electricity consumers and dealing with their complaints.
The Consumer Council has powers to investigate any matter relating
to the interests of electricity customers and to obtain information
from electricity licence holders.
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is also subject to UK and
EU legislation relating to the environment and competition.  
DIRECTORS’ REPORT AND OPERATING 
AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
OPERATING REVIEW Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Operating Review 9
Competition in generation and supply
The principal rules for trading electricity in Northern Ireland are
contained in the Supply Competition Code (SCC).  At the time of 
restructuring of the industry in 1992, the SCC required all licensed
generators to sell their entire capacity and output to PPB and
required suppliers to buy all their requirements (with certain limited
exceptions) from PPB at its regulated Bulk Supply Tariff (BST). 
Since then there has been a staged approach to market opening
which began in 1999 with competition for supply to large users.  On
1 March 2005 supply to all non-domestic customers became open
to competition in line with the requirements of Directive 2003/54/EC
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003
concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity (the
2003 Electricity Directive).  Consequently suppliers are able to
supply such non-domestic customers (56,000 comprising c60% of
the market by volume) from wholesalers (generators) of their choice
rather than solely from PPB. 
Suppliers to domestic customers are still required to purchase their
wholesale requirements (with the exception of supplies procured
from renewable generation sources) from PPB.  The 2003 Electricity
Directive requires 100% market opening, i.e. including all domestic
customers (currently 718,000), by July 2007.
Licences
There are four types of electricity licence: transmission, public
electricity supply (PES), second tier supply and generation.
Licences regulate the economic behaviour of licensees; set a
framework for competition in generation and supply; underpin the
arrangements relating to security of supply; protect the technical
integrity of the system; and provide for certain types of consumer
services.
NIE’s transmission and PES licence 
NIE holds a transmission licence and a PES licence combined in
one licence document (the Licence).  The Licence requires NIE to
carry on its activities through a number of separate businesses,
including T&D, PPB, SONI and NIE Supply. 
T&D is required to develop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated
and economical system of:
• electricity transmission - the bulk transfer of electricity across its
high voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables and
associated equipment mainly operating at 275kV and 110kV.
NIE’s transmission system is connected to that of the RoI
through 275kV and 110kV interconnectors and to the
transmission system in Scotland via the Moyle Interconnector;
and 
• electricity distribution - the transfer of electricity from the high
voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers
across a network of overhead lines and underground cables
operating at 33kV, 11kV and lower voltages.  
T&D must offer charges to suppliers for use of the transmission and
distribution system on a price-regulated and non-discriminatory
basis.  It is also required to offer terms for connection to the system
on a non-discriminatory basis approved by NIAER. 
NIAER has set both guaranteed standards and overall standards
covering certain customer services, the majority of which apply to
services provided by T&D (e.g. the restoration of customers’ supplies
following an interruption and responding to customers’ voltage
complaints).  The guaranteed standards apply in individual cases
and NIE is obliged to make a payment to each customer affected if it
fails to meet a guaranteed standard.  The overall standards apply at
the collective level and, whilst NIE is not required to make payments
to customers if it fails to meet an overall standard, the Licence
obliges NIE to conduct its business in such a way as can reasonably
be expected to lead to it achieving the overall standards.
PPB is required to draw up, publish and maintain the BST in a form
approved by NIAER, under which it offers non-discriminatory, price-
regulated terms for the sale of electricity to suppliers.  An economic
purchasing obligation requires it to contract for electricity at the best
effective price reasonably obtainable, having regard to the sources
available, and to keep its commitments under review.  Once it has
met the needs of domestic customers not yet eligible for competition
or business customers not taking part in the competitive market,
PPB is incentivised, under its price control, to trade any contract
surpluses in the competitive market.  PPB is also required to draw
up and publish a schedule of public service obligation (PSO)
charges for the provision of services which are of a public 
service nature.  PSO charges are approved by NIAER and 
payable by all suppliers. 
SONI is required to maintain the operating security standard and to
publish a price-regulated system support services (SSS) charge for
the provision of the services it provides as transmission system
operator and market operator.  SSS charges are payable by all
suppliers.  DETI intends to grant a separate licence to SONI to meet
the requirements of the 2003 Electricity Directive relating to the
independence of the transmission system operator and work is
progressing to achieve this.
NIE Supply is obliged, subject to certain exceptions, to supply
electricity to premises in Northern Ireland upon request by the
owner or occupier.  Any customer whose maximum demand does
not exceed 1MW is entitled to be supplied on a published price-
regulated tariff, although customers may instead enter into a
contract agreed with NIE Supply.  Customers with a maximum
demand greater than 1MW must enter into individual contracts if
they wish to receive a supply of electricity from NIE Supply.  
Other licences
Second tier supply licences authorise holders to supply electricity to
premises within Northern Ireland, but do not contain all the
conditions imposed on NIE Supply in its capacity as the public
electricity supplier for Northern Ireland.  There are 10 holders of
second tier licences, of which four (including Energia) are currently
active in the competitive market. 
Holders of generation licences are required to make their plant
available for central despatch by SONI.  Their licences contain
provisions concerning change of control and the approval of power
station operators.  With certain limited exceptions, NIE is prohibited
from owning generation assets in Northern Ireland.
Licence compliance, modification, termination and revocation
NIAER has powers to enforce compliance with licence conditions.
The 2003 Order provides for NIAER to levy a financial penalty (up to
10% of revenue) for breach of a relevant condition.  Operating Review 10
NIAER may modify the conditions of licences, either in accordance
with their terms or in accordance with the procedures set out in the
Orders, with the agreement of the licensee after due notice, public
consultation and consideration of any representations and
objections.  In the absence of such agreement, NIAER is required to
make a referral to the Competition Commission before a proposed
licence modification can be made.  Modifications may introduce new
conditions (relating to activities authorised by the licence or to other
activities) or may amend existing conditions.  A modification can be
vetoed by DETI.  Modifications of licence conditions may also be
made by statutory order as a consequence of a reference under the
Competition Act 1998.
Licences may be terminated by not less than 25 years’ notice given
by DETI and are revocable by DETI in certain circumstances
including: where the licensee consents to revocation; where the
licensee fails to comply with an enforcement order made by NIAER;
or where specified insolvency procedures are initiated in respect of
the licensee or its assets.  NIE’s Licence may also be revoked if
Viridian becomes insolvent or ceases to have control of NIE.
Price controls
NIE’s regulated businesses are subject to price controls, defined in
formulae set out in the Licence, which limit the revenues they may
earn and the prices they may charge.  The principles of price
regulation employed in the relevant licence conditions reflect the
general duties of NIAER and DETI under the Orders.  These include
having regard to the need to ensure that licensees are able to
finance their authorised activities.  The revenues of T&D, PPB, SONI
and NIE Supply are each subject to controls which are periodically
reviewed by NIAER.
If the amount of revenue recovered in any one year exceeds or falls
short of the amount allowed by the relevant price control formula, a
correction factor operates in the following year to give back any
surplus with interest, or to recover any deficit with interest, as
appropriate.  A surplus is referred to as an over-recovery and a
deficit as an under-recovery.
The current T&D price control is scheduled to be reviewed and reset
with effect from 1 April 2007.  Under the current price control,
charges for the use of the transmission and distribution system are
subject to a price control formula consisting of a fixed component
and a variable component which depends on the volume of units
transmitted and distributed.  Each component is controlled by a RPI-
X formula (with X at 5% under the current price control).  This has
the effect (subject to volume changes) of reducing the allowed
revenues by 5% in real terms in the second and each subsequent
year of the price control period.  Income from certain other T&D
services, such as connection charges, is excluded from the price
control.  In December 2005 NIAER published initial proposals for a
new price control that would run for five years with effect from 
1 April 2007.  The key aspects of the proposals are set out in the
Group Chief Executive’s Review. 
The PPB price control fixes the maximum revenue which PPB may
recover from sales of wholesale electricity to suppliers (including NIE
Supply).  In addition to recovery of its electricity purchase costs, the
current price control provides PPB with a revenue entitlement which
contains a fixed component and a variable component.  Under the
latter, PPB is incentivised to trade surplus contracted capacity to
second tier suppliers as a means of reducing the impact of its power
purchase costs on customers supplied under the BST.  The costs
which PPB incurs in the provision of services of a public service
nature are recovered on a pass through basis via PSO charges.
SONI’s price control principally covers the cost of system support
and market operator services as well as its own operating costs.  
The outcome of NIAER’s review of the current price controls for PPB
and SONI, which were due to be reset with effect from 1 April 2006,
is awaited.  
NIE Supply’s price control allows it to pass through to customers
those costs which are separately regulated (principally relating to the
cost of purchasing electricity at the BST from PPB and payment to
T&D for use of the transmission and distribution system).  Regulated
income associated with NIE Supply’s other costs is subject to a RPI-
X formula (where X is set at 3% under the current price control).
Two thirds of NIE Supply’s income is fixed while the other third
varies according to the number of customers supplied by the
business.  The current price control, which is due to be reset with
effect from 1 April 2007, requires NIE Supply to make a number of
social and environmental commitments including: the installation of
further keypad meters; further energy efficiency measures to deliver
£6m of lifetime savings; and certain actions to stimulate the
development of micro-renewable generation. 
Republic of Ireland
The principal legislative instruments governing the regulation of the
energy sector in the RoI are the Electricity Regulation Act 1999 (the
1999 Act), the European Communities (Internal Market in Electricity)
Regulations 2000 and 2005, the Gas (Interim) (Regulation) Act
2002 (the 2002 Act) and the European Communities (Internal
Market in Natural Gas) (No. 2) Regulations 2004.
In addition, the energy sector in the RoI is subject to EU legislation
relating to the environment and competition.
Regulation
Overall policy responsibility for the energy sector lies with the
Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources.  In
this capacity, the Minister is advised by the Department of
Communications, Marine and Natural Resources (DCMNR) and a
range of other statutory bodies including CER and Sustainable
Energy Ireland.  CER is the national regulatory authority for the
energy sector.  CER was established as the regulator of the electricity
sector by the 1999 Act and was subsequently vested with regulatory
authority over the downstream gas sector by the 2002 Act.
The functions of CER include: advising the Minister; licensing
market participants; the general supervision and enforcement of the
licensing regime; the regulation of third party access and network
tariffs in both the gas and electricity sectors; the setting of gas and
electricity market rules; and setting public electricity supply tariffs
and residential gas tariffs.  DCMNR’s functions include drafting
legislation, advising the Minister on issues of energy policy and
promoting renewable energy. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Operating Review 11
CER’s objectives and duties
The principal objective of CER in carrying out its functions in relation
to energy is to protect the interests of energy consumers, wherever
appropriate, by promoting effective competition between persons
engaged in, or in commercial activities connected with, the
generation, transmission or supply of electricity and the
transportation and supply of natural gas.  CER has a duty to carry
out its functions in a manner which does not discriminate between
market participants and protects the interests of customers.  
Competition in electricity generation and supply
The principal rules for trading electricity in the RoI are set out in the
Trading and Settlement Code issued by CER.
The electricity market is fully open to competition.  There are four
types of licence: transmission, distribution, supply and generation.
Licences regulate the economic behaviour of licensees; set a
framework for competition in generation and supply; underpin the
arrangements relating to security of supply; and protect the technical
integrity of the system.  Huntstown 1 holds a generation licence and
Energia holds a supply licence.
Competition in gas supply
The principal rules for shipping natural gas in the RoI are contained
in the Bord Gáis Éireann (BGE) Code of Operations.  Huntstown 1
and Energia have each entered into a framework agreement with
BGE binding them to this code and are entitled to ship gas in the
RoI.  Energia holds a gas shipping/supply licence and is licensed
both to ship gas to Huntstown 1 as well as to supply eligible gas
customers.  The gas market in the RoI is not yet fully open to
competition, with domestic customers still supplied by BGE.  Full
market opening is scheduled to take place before July 2007 in line
with EU Directive 2003/55 concerning Common Rules for the
Internal Market in Gas.  Energia started supplying some large
customers with gas in April 2005.  
Single Electricity Market
In November 2004 the Minister with responsibility for Enterprise,
Trade and Investment (Northern Ireland) and the Minister for
Communications, Marine and Natural Resources (RoI) jointly
published a development framework for the introduction of an all-
island energy market.  Within that framework, one of the short-term
priorities is to establish arrangements for all-island trading of
wholesale electricity. NIAER and CER have signed a memorandum
of understanding in which they have committed to working together
to develop the SEM in consultation with market participants. 
The SEM is scheduled to be established by July 2007 and will be
based on a gross mandatory pool through which all electricity (with
limited exceptions) will be bought and sold.  Generators will make
offers to sell their electricity into the pool and will be despatched
centrally on the basis of their bids.  Suppliers will purchase all of
their wholesale requirements from the pool.
There will be a single system marginal price (SMP) for the whole
island that will be set for every half hour.  The amounts paid to
generators and the amounts charged to suppliers will be a function
of the SMP, together with a range of other components including:
capacity payments (payments to generators for making their capacity
available); constraint payments (payments to generators when they
are constrained on or off for reasons relating to operation of the
transmission system); and ancillary service payments (payments 
to generators for services they provide to maintain the stable
operation of the transmission system and to restore the power
system in an emergency).
Key Performance Indicators
The Board has determined that the following key performance
indicators (KPIs), covering both financial and operational
performance, are the most effective measures of progress towards
achieving the Group’s objectives.
Financial KPIs
The financial KPIs are:
• NIE pro-forma operating profit (based on regulated entitlement
and pre exceptional items);
• VP&E operating profit (pre exceptional items);  
• interest cover (based on Group pro-forma operating profit);
• pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations (based
on regulated entitlement, pre exceptional items and deferred
tax); and
• return on capital employed (ROCE) (based on Group pro-forma
operating profit).
Financial KPIs and commentary thereon are set out in the 
Financial Review. 
Operational KPIs
The operational KPIs for NIE are:
• performance against the overall and guaranteed standards set
by NIAER covering certain customer services;
• the number of complaints which the Consumer Council takes
up on behalf of customers (Stage 2 complaints); and
• the average number of minutes lost per customer through
supply interruptions excluding the impact of major 
storms (CML). 
The operational KPIs for VP&E are:
• generation plant availability (the percentage of time generation
plant is available to produce full output); and
• the volume of electricity sales (TWh) in Northern Ireland and
the RoI.
Operational KPIs and commentary thereon are set out in the relevant
Business Review.
The Board also regards the lost time incident rate (LTIR) as a KPI 
in respect of employee safety.  Commentary thereon is set out in 
the Workplace section of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Report.   Operating Review 12
Business Reviews
T&D
Background information
The T&D business is responsible for the planning, development,
construction and maintenance of the transmission and distribution
network and for the operation of the distribution network.  The T&D
network is used to convey electricity from generating stations in
Northern Ireland to customers' premises.  The T&D business derives
its revenue principally through use of system charges levied on
electricity suppliers.
The T&D network comprises a number of interconnected networks
of overhead lines and underground cables which are used for the
transfer of electricity to customers via a number of substations.
There are approximately 2,100km of the transmission system, of
which some 80km are underground; and approximately 42,900km
of the distribution system, of which some 13,100km are
underground.  At 31 March 2006, 774,000 customers were
connected to the distribution system.
Financial performance
T&D revenues (based on regulated entitlement) increased by £0.9m
mainly due to higher income associated with the recovery of market
opening costs, offset by lower price control revenues.  Based on
regulated entitlement, T&D reported profits of £83.2m compared to
£73.9m last year.  Profits benefited from a change in the method of
depreciation for infrastructure assets which brings T&D into line with
the majority of UK DNOs.  Before 31 March 2005, T&D
infrastructure assets were depreciated at 3% per annum for the first
20 years followed by 2% per annum for the remaining 20 years.
Since 1 April 2005, new assets are being depreciated on a straight-
line basis over 40 years and existing assets on a straight-line basis
over their remaining life.  This change has resulted in a reduction of
£4.5m in T&D’s depreciation charge from what it otherwise would
have been.  Profits also benefited from reductions in operating costs
and the absence of certain restructuring and reorganisation costs
incurred last year.  In particular, cost savings were achieved as a
result of centralising customer call handling at the distribution
control centre in Craigavon; this included the transfer to T&D of
some services previously provided by Sx3.  Cost efficiencies also
resulted from a lower headcount. 
Operational performance 
KPIs
2006 2005
Number Number
_______________________________________________________________________
Overall standards - defaults None None
Guaranteed standards - defaults None 1
Stage 2 complaints to the 27
1
32
Consumer Council
CML (planned) 47 50
CML (faults) 78 73
_______ _______
Total CML 125 123
1
subject to formal classification by the Consumer Council.
During the year, all the overall standards were achieved and there
were no defaults against the guaranteed standards (2005 - 1). 
T&D’s strong focus on service failure analysis has helped to limit the
number of instances when customers are dissatisfied to the extent
that they refer a complaint to the Consumer Council.  The number of
Stage 2 complaints reduced to 27 (2005 - 32).
During the year, the number of CML increased slightly to 125 (2005
- 123).  As shown in the table below, the number of CML has
reduced significantly over the last five years reflecting investment in
overhead line refurbishment, increased use of mobile generators 
and live-line working during planned outages, and shorter 
restoration times.
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Number Number Number Number Number
__________________________________________________________________________
CML (planned) 47 50 52 47 68
CML (faults) 78 73 90 96 107
_______ _______ _______ _______ _______
Total CML 125 123 142 143 175
__________________________________________________________________________
T&D continues to make substantial investment in its infrastructure
assets.  Network capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March
2006 was in line with the regulatory allowance which provides for a
programme totalling £257m (after customers’ contributions and at
2004/05 prices) over the five year period to March 2007.  Total
capital expenditure, including expenditure on customer service
systems, other non-network assets and new systems required to
support market opening in Northern Ireland was £73.5m (2005 -
£72.5m) before customer contributions of £17.1m (2005 - £15.6m).
The T&D RAB at 31 March 2006 was £783m (2005 - £754m). Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Operating Review 13
PPB/SONI
Background information
PPB
PPB was established to administer the long-term power purchase
agreements (PPAs) which were put in place with the purchasers of
the power stations at privatisation of the electricity industry in
Northern Ireland in 1992.  
Following certain changes to the PPAs, the current contracted
capacity is 1,712MW comprising:
• Kilroot - 578MW (520MW coal/oil, 58MW gasoil); these
contracts expire in 2024 but are cancellable by NIAER from
2010;
• Ballylumford - 1,076MW (600MW CCGT, 116MW gasoil, 2 x
180MW gas/HFO); the 600MW contract expires in 2012
(although PPB has options to extend); the 116MW contract
expires in 2020 (but is cancellable by NIAER from 2010); one
of the 180MW contracts expires on 31 October 2007 (but is
extendable to 31 March 2008 at PPB’s option); the other
180MW contract expires in 2012 (but is cancellable at PPB’s
option from 2008); and
• Coolkeeragh - 58MW (gasoil); this contract expires in 2020 but
is cancellable by NIAER from 2010.
PPB also has contracts with renewable generators for approximately
39MW secured under the Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation (NFFO) Orders
which expire between 2009 and 2013 and a contract for 125MW of
capacity on the Moyle Interconnector which expires in 2007.
Kilroot has received consent to install flue gas desulphurisation
(FGD) equipment as a result of the implementation of the Large
Combustion Plant (LCP) Directive and the IPPC Directive.  Under the
terms of its PPA with PPB, Kilroot will be entitled to increase its
availability payment capacity charges to NIE to recover the cost of
FGD equipment which is estimated at £35m.  The increased
charges will be passed through to Northern Ireland customers. 
Once the SEM is established, PPB will no longer sell through the
BST and bilateral contracts with second tier suppliers.  Instead, it is
expected to act as a trader within the SEM, offering its contracted
capacity and energy into the pool and being remunerated under the
SEM rules in the same way as other generators.  PPB’s obligations
under its PPAs will remain and any mismatch between the revenues
it receives from the market and its payments under the contracts will
be funded from PSO charges.
SONI
SONI is responsible for the safe, secure and economic operation of
the transmission system in Northern Ireland.  This includes
despatch of generating plant and managing interconnector transfers
to meet demand for electricity in Northern Ireland.  SONI also
undertakes the role of market operator in Northern Ireland and
makes arrangements for interconnector capacity auctions and the
provision of appropriate trading mechanisms for independent
generators and suppliers.
SONI is working jointly with Eirgrid, NIAER and CER to implement
the SEM.  The principal steps are: establishing a single market
operator through a contractual joint venture between SONI and
Eirgrid; setting up the necessary operational and commercial
interfaces between the two companies in their roles as transmission
system operator in each jurisdiction; and procuring the IT systems
required to operate the new market.  The capital costs are being
split 25% SONI, 75% Eirgrid.  SONI is receiving a rate of return on
its costs of 6.5% pre tax real.
Financial performance
During the year PPB’s and SONI’s combined revenue (based on
regulated entitlement) increased to £485.2m (2005 - £436.3m) due
to increased tariffs as a result of higher fuel costs and increased
trading income from PPB.  Combined profits from PPB and SONI
(based on regulated entitlement) increased to £9.8m (2005 -
£7.2m) reflecting increased entitlement earned by PPB under its
trading incentive together with the recovery of certain costs which
were provided for last year.  PPB’s contribution from trading has
been strong this year as the result of operational difficulties at the
independent Coolkeeragh CCGT plant, which are not expected 
to be repeated.
Operational performance
PPB’s total units sold increased by 2.4% to 8.5TWh (2005 -
8.3TWh).  Units traded to second tier suppliers increased by 17% to
3.4TWh (2005 - 2.9TWh) primarily arising from the outages
experienced by the Coolkeeragh CCGT plant described below.
In April 2005, ESB commissioned a new 414MW CCGT at
Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland.  Its impact has been to displace
imports of energy from Great Britain supplied through the Moyle
Interconnector.  The new plant enabled the retirement of oil-fired
generation capacity at Coolkeeragh that had previously been
contracted to PPB.  The new CCGT has experienced several lengthy
outages during its first year of operation requiring PPB to purchase
additional energy from Great Britain and the RoI to meet demand.
Peak demand for electricity in Northern Ireland in the year ended 
31 March 2006 was 1,723MW on 9 January 2006 (2005 -
1,663MW). 
During the year there were no major loss of supply incidents arising
from the non-availability of generating plant.  Operating Review 14
NIE Supply
Background information
NIE Supply acquires bulk supplies of electricity from PPB in order 
to supply customers who are either not yet eligible for competition 
or who are eligible but have not moved to a second tier supplier.
NIE Supply is also responsible for the billing and collection of
customer accounts.
When the SEM is introduced, the BST will no longer be available.  
It is envisaged that NIE Supply will purchase from the pool and will
use contracts for differences to hedge its exposure to pool price
volatility.  The precise contractual arrangements between PPB and
NIE Supply have yet to be determined.
Financial performance
NIE Supply’s revenue (based on regulated entitlement) increased to
£432.5m (2005 - £424.9m) primarily reflecting increased prices
associated with rising fuel prices partly offset by a reduction in its
non-domestic customer base due to market opening.  Profits (based
on regulated entitlement) increased to £7.4m (2005 - £6.8m) due to
lower operating costs and increased incentive income from the
administration of energy efficiency programmes.
Operating performance
KPI
2006 2005
Number Number
_______________________________________________________________________
Stage 2 complaints to the 9
1
28
Consumer Council
1
subject to formal classification by the Consumer Council.
During the year, the number of Stage 2 complaints reduced to nine
(2005 - 28). 
NIE Supply’s customer numbers increased from 746,000 at 
31 March 2005 to 760,000 at 31 March 2006 reflecting an increase
in domestic customers from 703,000 to 718,000 offset by a
reduction in non-domestic customers from 43,000 to 42,000.  
This reduction reflects the migration of such customers to second
tier suppliers.
As part of its price control, NIE Supply has a target to install
175,000 keypad meters in customers’ premises by March 2007.
This pay-as-you-go metering enables customers to budget for their
electricity payments whilst attracting a 2.5% discount to the
standard price and providing easy to read consumption information.
During the year, NIE Supply invested £1.7m (2005 - £2.0m) in some
17,000 keypad meters bringing the total keypad investment to
£12.9m (some 170,000 meters) at 31 March 2006.
Powerteam
Background information
Powerteam is an unregulated power utility contractor specialising in
the design, construction, commissioning and maintenance of high
voltage transmission and distribution power systems, principally for
T&D, but also through Powerteam Electrical Services for industrial
customers in Northern Ireland and electricity companies in Great
Britain and the RoI.  
Financial performance
Powerteam made steady progress during the year increasing its
profits to £4.6m (2005 - £3.8m) due to an increase in internal
income and improved margins; its main focus continues to be on
costs to T&D.    
Operating performance
During the year external revenues decreased to £22.9m (2005 -
£28.5m) due to a reduction in the level of work with ESB.  Over the
last three years Powerteam’s external business has been
underpinned by a framework contract awarded in June 2003 for the
refurbishment of ESB’s medium voltage network.  This contract is
due to end in June 2006.  Powerteam is developing new revenue
streams including further work with ESB, contracts for the
installation of windfarms in Ireland and overhead line and substation
contracts in Great Britain.
VP&E
Background information
VP&E operates as an integrated energy business comprising
generation, through the Huntstown site in the RoI, and competitive
supply, through Energia, in both Northern Ireland and the RoI. 
Generation
In November 2002, VP&E commissioned Huntstown 1, a 343MW
CCGT plant on the Huntstown site north of Dublin.  In conjunction
with limited recourse financing arrangements put in place in 2002,
Huntstown 1 entered into a long-term fuel purchase and energy sale
agreement (FPESA) with Energia.  Under the FPESA, Huntstown 1
bears the operational risk of converting gas to electricity and Energia
assumes the market risk inherent in the purchase of gas and in the
sale of electricity.
In July 2005, VP&E started construction of Huntstown 2, a 400MW
CCGT plant, adjacent to Huntstown 1.  The plant is expected to be
commissioned in autumn 2007 at an estimated cost of €250m.   Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Operating Review 15
Supply
Energia is an independent energy supply company, operating in the competitive energy markets in Northern Ireland and the RoI.  The following
table provides an overview of the electricity supply markets in which Energia operates:
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________
Sites* TWh demand* Market opening
Northern Ireland customers
Large energy users 750 2.6 July 1999 - April 2001
Small to medium-sized enterprises 55,000 2.4 April 2004 - March 2005
Domestic 718,000 3.3 July 2007 target
____________ ____________
773,750 8.3
____________ ____________
____________ ____________
RoI customers
Large energy users 800 8.0 February 2000
Small to medium-sized enterprises 180,000 8.0 February 2002 - February 2005
Domestic 1,785,0008.4 February 2005
____________ ____________
1,965,800 24.4
____________ ____________
____________ ____________
* estimates at 31 March 2006
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________
Financial performance
VP&E has delivered a sound performance in the year.  Revenue
increased from £272.3m to £381.1m primarily due to volume growth
in the RoI, higher prices associated with rising fuel costs and sales
to gas customers.  Operating profit reduced slightly to £24.1m 
(2005 - £25.0m).
Operating performance
Generation
KPI
2006 2005
% %
_______________________________________________________________________
Huntstown 1 availability 93.9 92.5
Huntstown 1 has performed well in 2005/06 achieving 
availability (after both planned and unplanned outages) of 93.9%
(2005 - 92.5%).  The plant responded well to flexible despatch at
certain periods during the winter, as provided for in its design for
open-cycle as well as combined-cycle operation.  In April 2006,
Huntstown 1 incurred an unplanned outage lasting 19 days to repair
damage caused by a failed heat shield in the gas turbine.  This work
was successfully completed at the beginning of May. 
At 31 March 2006 Huntstown 1’s gas requirements for the seven
month period to October 2006 were c90% hedged.  We await the
outcome of CER’s consultation on tariff-setting mechanisms for
calendar year 2007 before taking any decisions on hedging beyond
October 2006.  At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1’s requirements for
CO
2
emission credits were fully covered for the year ending 
31 March 2007 by forward purchase contracts.
The construction programme for Huntstown 2 is on track for
commissioning in autumn 2007 with capital expenditure of €27m as
at 31 March 2006.  Civil engineering works have proceeded well and
the main equipment is due to arrive on site during summer 2006.
Supply
KPIs
2006 2005
TWh TWh
_______________________________________________________________________
Northern Ireland 1.6 1.5
RoI 3.9 3.1
____________ ____________
Total sales 5.5 4.6
In Northern Ireland, Energia’s sales increased from 1.5TWh to
1.6TWh, with customer sites maintained at 3,800 (2005 - 3,800)
notwithstanding some pressure on prices as the output from the new
Coolkeeragh CCGT was sold into the market.  Energia plans to
maintain its current overall level of volume sales in Northern Ireland. 
In Northern Ireland, Energia can source power from PPB together
with wind power through offtake contracts with windfarm operators
and imports from Scotland through the Moyle Interconnector.
Energia enters into contracts with customers, on the basis of single
or multi-year fixed energy price contracts, with pass through of use
of system charges and levies to customers.  Contracts are generally
for the period April to March.  
In the RoI, Energia increased its sales from 3.1TWh to 3.9TWh, with
customer sites increasing to 18,600 (2005 - 11,500), primarily
among SMEs.  Energia is growing its customer base to absorb the
future output of Huntstown 2. Operating Review 16
In the RoI, customer contracts are backed by generation from
Huntstown 1, imports from Northern Ireland and wholesale products
made available by ESB.  Energia enters into contracts with
customers on the basis of fixed energy prices with pass through of
use of system charges and levies, primarily on an annual basis.  The
majority of Energia’s contracts (by volume) are for the period
November to October.  Prices in the competitive market are set by
reference to ESB’s tariffs regulated by CER.  Energia uses a variety
of mechanisms to hedge its power purchase costs. 
As indicated in the interim results, Energia has experienced pressure
on operating margins following the setting of electricity tariffs by CER
for calendar year 2006, against a background of high gas prices.
The effect of this has been partly offset by increased sales and an
active trading strategy.  The latter involved, inter alia, increased
purchases of electricity from ESB on a regulated wholesale tariff at
times of very high gas prices and additional income from Huntstown
1 when despatched to meet system security in the RoI.
During the year, Energia started to supply a number of large
customers in the RoI with gas, generating revenues of £11m 
(14m therms); annualised volume is c23m therms.  The majority of
contracts involve the pass through of gas costs, with Energia
charging an agency fee.  Where fixed priced contracts are entered
into, Energia hedges its gas costs to match the fixed price.
Renewable energy
Since 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland have been
required to source a proportion of their supply from renewable
generation.  Energia currently has 33MW of windfarm capacity
under contract and is aiming to negotiate further contracts with
windfarm developers, either as offtake arrangements, or through
direct investment where projected returns are appropriate.
Windfarm development in Northern Ireland has been slower than
expected as a result of planning delays.
In April 2005 the RoI government announced details of a new
support mechanism for renewable energy.  Under the mechanism,
renewable generators will contract with suppliers at a fixed price and
suppliers will benefit from support payments levied across all
customers.  Energia is assessing offtake contracts with windfarm
developers under this scheme, which only received final approval on
2 May 2006. 
Other Activities
Other profits increased to £3.9m (2005 - £2.5m) primarily reflecting
profits on the disposal of property.  No further significant property
disposals are expected.
Employees 
The Group had 1,503 employees at 31 March 2006 (2005 - 1,450)
based on continuing operations.  
1,350 employees are employed in Northern Ireland and 153 in the
RoI.  Approximately 71% of employees are union members, and are
covered by collective bargaining arrangements.  Employee relations
in all businesses are positive and constructive.
The Group aims to align its human resources policies with key
business drivers, which include performance and productivity
improvement, cost reduction, business growth and innovation, and
providing value to customers.
These policies are supported by clearly defined values and
behaviours, a robust performance management process, 
a strong commitment to management development and
organisational competence built upon appropiate capabilities 
and skills.  The Group seeks to align employee interests with 
those of other key stakeholders through an effective approach 
to recognition and reward, based on business and individual
performance achievements.   Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Financial Review 17
FINANCIAL REVIEW
International Financial Reporting Standards
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 March 2005,
the Group prepared its annual report and accounts in accordance
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP). For
the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group’s results have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS with prior year comparatives
restated.  Detailed reconciliations of the Group Income Statement for
the year ended 31 March 2005 and Balance Sheets at 1 April 2004
and 31 March 2005 under IFRS to the results and financial position
previously reported under UK GAAP are set out in note 34 to the
accounts.
Summary of Financial Performance
The Group’s financial KPIs are summarised in the table below:
KPIs
2006 2005
_______________________________________________________________________
NIE pro-forma operating profit £101.0m £88.8m
VP&E operating profit £24.1m £25.0m
Interest cover 6.3 times 4.4 times
Pro-forma earnings per share 68.2p 55.0p
ROCE 17.1% 15.9%
NIE pro-forma operating profit increased from £88.8m to £101.0m
mainly due to increased operating profits from T&D and PPB.  The
calculation of NIE pro-forma operating profit is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
NIE statutory operating profit 117.6 73.0
(Deduct)/add back:
-  (over)/under-recovery of 
regulated entitlement (16.6) 15.8
____________ ____________
NIE pro-forma operating profit 101.0 88.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
NIE’s statutory profits include the effect of over- or under-recovery.
The directors believe that the most appropriate measure of NIE's
performance in a given year is its profit based on regulated
entitlement i.e. excluding the effect of over- or under-recovery. 
In the financial years ended 31 March 2004 and 2005, NIE’s
regulated businesses incurred net under-recoveries of £9.5m and
£15.8m respectively against the income to which they were entitled
giving a cumulative under-recovery of £25.3m at 31 March 2005.
Following the over-recovery of £16.6m in the year ended 31 March
2006, there is a net cumulative under-recovery of £8.7m at 
31 March 2006.  This net under-recovery is expected to be
recovered in tariffs for 2006/07.
VP&E’s profits reduced slightly from £25.0m to £24.1m primarily
due to lower operating margins, offset by higher sales volumes and
an active trading strategy in the winter period. 
Group pro-forma operating profit increased from £119.1m to
£132.4m due to the increase in NIE’s pro-forma operating profit.
The calculation of Group pro-forma operating profit is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Group statutory operating profit 149.0 103.3
(Deduct)/add back:
-  (over)/under-recovery of 
regulated entitlement (16.6) 15.8
____________ ____________
Group pro-forma operating profit 132.4 119.1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The Group's net finance costs decreased from £27.0m to £19.3m,
reflecting lower net debt levels, a lower net pension scheme interest
charge and a one-off £1.6m credit in respect of interest received on
deferred consideration from previous disposals repaid during the
year.  Net debt at the end of the year was £310.0m (2005 -
£366.7m).
Interest cover increased from 4.4 times to 6.3 times. The calculation
of interest cover is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Group pro-forma operating profit 132.4 119.1
Net finance costs 19.3 27.0
Add back:
- release of provision held   
against interest receivable  
on deferred consideration 1.6 -
____________ ____________
Adjusted net finance costs 20.9 27.0
____________ ____________
Interest cover 6.3 times 4.4 times
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The total tax charge (including deferred tax) on continuing
operations increased to £36.2m (2005 - £15.3m). Excluding last
year's provision release of £4.5m, the total effective tax rate
increased from 26.0% to 27.9% mainly due to a higher proportion of
UK profits which are subject to a statutory tax rate of 30% compared
to 12.5% in the RoI.  
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations reported in the
Group Income Statement are 74.4p (2005 - 45.7p).  Pro-forma
earnings per share increased from 55.0p to 68.2p reflecting the
increase in pro-forma operating profit, a lower net finance charge
and a higher tax charge as well as the effect of the 9 for 10 share
consolidation implemented with the return of capital.  Pro-forma
earnings per share are reconciled to basic earnings per share as
shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March pence pence
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations 74.4 45.7
(Deduct)/add back:
- (over)/under-recovery net of tax (9.2) 8.3
- deferred tax 3.0 1.0
____________ ____________
Pro-forma earnings per share 68.2 55.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Financial Review 18
The recommended final dividend of 26.61p brings the total 
dividend for the year to 36.89p, a 4.9% increase on 2004/05.  
This dividend is covered 1.8 times by pro-forma earnings per share
(2005 - 1.6 times).  
Profit from discontinued operations of £110.9m (2005 - £9.9m)
comprises the exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of £108.9m, that
company’s post tax earnings (£0.2m) until its disposal on 25 April
2005, and a £1.8m provision release in respect of deferred
consideration from previous disposals received during the year.
Overall reported basic earnings per share from both continuing and
discontinued operations increased from 53.1p to 162.7p, reflecting
the exceptional gain.
Net Pension Liability
The net pension liability, net of deferred tax, in the Group’s defined
benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, decreased to
£72.0m at 31 March 2006 from £112.8m at 31 March 2005
reflecting the special pension contribution of £25.0m (£17.5m net of
tax) made in July 2005 and a net actuarial gain of £31.5m (£22.0m
net of tax).
Notwithstanding the improvement in the net pension liability under
IAS 19, the Group has decided to increase its cash contributions in
respect of the past service liability from £6m per annum to £10m
per annum.  It also intends to make an additional special
contribution of £10m during 2006/07.  
The triennial actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme at 
31 March 2006 is underway and final results will be available later in
the year.
Return of Capital
The return of capital to shareholders and the associated 9 for 10
share capital consolidation, announced in conjunction with the
disposal of Sx3, were successfully effected through a B share
scheme in August 2005.  The return of capital amounted to 
£97.9m, with most shareholders electing for immediate payment
(£97.1m) and the remainder opting for a deferred payment in 
April 2006 (£0.8m).
Net Debt and Capital Structure
Cash generated from operations decreased from £193.8m to
£165.2m (£190.2m after adding back the special pension
contribution of £25.0m).
Net finance costs (excluding interest received of £1.6m on deferred
consideration relating to prior periods) decreased by £5.5m from
£23.5m to £18.0m reflecting lower net debt.   Tax paid increased by
£6.8m from £18.6m to £25.4m reflecting increased profits.
Cash flows from investing activities increased by £149.3m from a
cash outflow of £81.4m to a cash inflow of £67.9m.  This primarily
reflects net proceeds from the disposal of Sx3 of £136.8m (including
loans disposed of) together with the receipt during the year of
deferred consideration from previous disposals (£13.5m), including
interest received of £1.6m on deferred consideration relating to prior
periods.  Cash outflow from the purchase of property, plant and
equipment decreased from £93.1m to £90.1m reflecting a reduction
in capital expenditure associated with Sx3, offset by an increase in
expenditure by NIE on new connections and expenditure on
Huntstown 2.
Cash outflows from financing activities increased by £88.6m from
£41.3m to £129.9m primarily reflecting the return of capital
(£97.1m). Dividends paid increased by £1.1m from £45.5m 
to £46.6m.  
Net debt reduced by £56.7m from £366.7m at 31 March 2005 to
£310.0m at 31 March 2006.  Equity shareholders’ funds increased
from £153.7m at 31 March 2005 to £252.5m at 31 March 2006.  
ROCE increased from 15.9% to 17.1% mainly as a result of
increased operating profits in the year partly offset by an 
increase in average capital employed.  The calculation of ROCE 
is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Group pro-forma operating profit 132.4 119.1
Capital employed at 1 April 758.2 741.4
Capital employed at 31 March 794.1 758.2
____________ ____________
Average capital employed 776.2 749.8
ROCE 17.1% 15.9%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The calculation of capital employed is shown below:
2006 2005 2004
At 31 March £m £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Total equity 252.5 153.7 123.1
Net debt 310.0 366.7 389.4
Net deferred tax liability (including discontinued operations) 94.1 77.6 77.0
Current tax liability (including discontinued operations) 34.6 29.0 28.8
Pension liability (including discontinued operations) 102.9 168.6 168.6
Capital employed included in disposal groups - (37.4) (45.5)
____________ ____________ ____________
Capital employed 794.1 758.2 741.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Financial Review 19
Financing
Role of Treasury
The role of the Group's centralised treasury function is to manage
liquidity, funding, investment and the Group's financial risk,
including risk from volatility in currency, interest rates, commodity
prices and counterparty credit risk.  The treasury function’s objective
is to manage risk at optimum cost.  It operates within policies and
procedures approved by the Board and overseen by the Group
Finance Director.
The treasury function employs a continuous forecasting and
monitoring process to ensure that the Group complies with its
banking and other financial covenants.  Treasury operations and
future treasury requirements are identified in a monthly treasury
report to the Group Finance Director.  
Liquidity and interest rate risk
The Group's policy is to finance its operations primarily through a
mixture of retained earnings and medium to long-term loans and
bank debt.  Borrowings are controlled and approved centrally by the
treasury function.  Medium to long-term borrowings are
denominated in Sterling and Euro and bear a mixture of fixed and
floating interest rates.  Interest rate exposure on borrowings is also
managed, where appropriate, by the treasury function through the
use of derivative financial instruments.
2006 2005
At 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Cash and cash equivalents 147.6 79.1
Net funds classified as held for resale - 4.0
Loans and other borrowings (457.6) (449.8)
____________ ____________
Net debt (310.0) (366.7)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Loans and other borrowings maturity analysis:
In one year or less (13.6) (12.8)
In more than one year but less 
than five years (186.5) (167.1)
In more than five years (257.5) (269.9)
____________ ____________
(457.6) (449.8)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Loans and other borrowings fixed/floating analysis:
Fixed rate debt (309.5) (315.9)
Variable rate debt (148.1) (133.9)
____________ ____________
(457.6) (449.8)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The Group's policy is to target a ratio of 50% fixed rate debt to 50%
floating rate debt within a range of one third to two thirds either way.
The policy permits the exclusion of fixed rate project finance debt in
the calculation of the ratio and on this basis the ratio at 31 March
2006 was 57% (2005 - 58%) fixed rate debt and 43% (2005 -
42%) floating rate debt.  Including fixed rate project finance debt,
the ratio was 68% (2005 - 70%) fixed rate debt and 32% (2005 -
30%) floating rate debt.  At 31 March 2006 the weighted average
rate of fixed rate debt after taking account of interest rate swaps was
6.69% (2005 - 6.67%).  
The Group's policy is to maintain an appropriate spread of maturity
to ensure continuity of funding.  At 31 March 2006, 3% (2005 -
3%) of its borrowings were due to mature in less than one year, 41%
(2005 - 37%) in more than one year but less than five years and
56% (2005 - 60%) in more than five years.  The Group manages its
funding profile through a combination of long-term capital market
funding and medium to long-term committed bank facilities and
short-term uncommitted bank facilities.
In November 2005 the Group exercised an option to extend by one
year the maturity of its revolving credit facilities agreed in November
2004.  The facilities totalling £225m now mature in November 2010.
The Group has an option in November 2006 to extend the facilities
by a further year to November 2011.
The Group is currently assessing appropriate means for the long-
term financing of Huntstown 2 and expects to put facilities in place
during the year ending 31 March 2007.  In the meantime, the Group
is using existing resources and facilities to fund the construction of
Huntstown 2.
At 31 March 2006 the Group had undrawn committed facilities of
£167.9m (2005 - £185.9m) and uncommitted facilities of £35.0m
(2005 - £31.0m).
Foreign currency risk
The Group's treasury policy is to identify foreign exchange exposures
with a value equivalent to or greater than £0.5m with the percentage
level of hedging dependent on the specific project.  A high
proportion of the Group’s income and expenditure is denominated in
Sterling; however both VP&E and Powerteam receive income and
incur expenditure in Euro.  Exchange rate exposures are identified,
monitored and hedged through the use of financial instruments
(mainly forward currency contracts and swap arrangements) in
accordance with the Group’s treasury policy.  In particular, VP&E is
exposed to foreign exchange movements in respect of its gas
purchases denominated in Sterling.  At 31 March 2006, c90% of
VP&E’s exchange rate exposure in respect of its forecast gas
requirements for the seven month period to October 2006 
was hedged.  
Euro-denominated fixed assets on the Group’s balance sheet relating
to Huntstown 1 and Huntstown 2 are broadly matched by Euro-
denominated borrowings.
Commodity risk
The Group’s policy is to hedge the level of commodity risk exposure
deemed appropriate on a project specific basis.  VP&E is exposed to
changes in the price of gas purchased for the operation of
Huntstown 1 and, to a lesser extent, the price of CO
2
emission
credits with VP&E receiving a 74% allocation for the first phase of
the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS).  During the year VP&E
employed financial commodity swaps to hedge gas price exposures
identified.  At 31 March 2006, c90% of VP&E’s forecast gas
requirements for the seven month period to October 2006 were
hedged.  Its requirements for CO
2
emission credits for the year
ending 31 March 2007 were fully covered by forward 
purchase contracts.  Financial Review 20
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash
equivalents, trade and other receivables, derivative financial assets
and other financial assets as outlined in the table below:
2006 2005
At 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Cash and cash equivalents 147.6 79.1
Trade and other receivables 152.7 129.7
Derivative financial assets 11.0 7.2
Other financial assets 1.1 12.5
____________ ____________
312.4 228.5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade
receivables.  Provisions are made based on previous experience and
identifiable events which indicate a reduction in the recoverability of
cash flows.  The Group considers that it is not exposed to major
concentrations of credit risk in respect of its trade receivables, with
exposure spread over a large number of customers.  NIE’s
businesses dealing with second tier suppliers receive appropriate
security in the form of letters of credit, parent company guarantees
or cash collateral.  Energia has taken out credit insurance in respect
of certain trade receivables.  
The Group may be exposed to credit-related loss in the event of non-
performance by counterparties in respect of cash and cash
equivalents and derivative financial instruments.  The Group does
not anticipate any non-performance given the high credit ratings of
the established financial institutions that comprise these
counterparties.  The Group controls credit risk arising in respect of
such counterparties by transacting only with bank counterparties
rated investment grade and above. 
Further information on financial instruments is set out in the notes 
to the accounts in compliance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments:
Disclosures. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Governance 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report,
describes how, during the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company
has applied the main and supporting principles of good governance.
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions set out
in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the
FRC in 2003 (the Code) throughout the year, with the following
exceptions:
From 1 May 2005 until the appointment of John Biles as a non-
executive director on 23 August 2005, the composition of the Board
was not in compliance with provision A.3.2 of the Code (in that less
than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was independent).
During that period, and until John Biles’s appointment to the
Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee in October 2005, the
composition of these Board committees was not in compliance with
provisions B.2.1 and C.3.1 of the Code (in that these committees
comprised only two independent non-executive directors).  Following
the appointment of Laurence MacKenzie as an executive director on
2 March 2006, the composition of the Board is again not in
compliance with provision A.3.2 of the Code.  While the Board
considers that, for its size, its composition continues to reflect a
substantial degree of independence, the Nomination Committee has
commenced a process for the appointment of an additional non-
executive director.  
The Board
During most of the year the Board comprised a non-executive
Chairman, three non-executive directors and three executive
directors thus maintaining an appropriate balance of independence,
experience and skills.  There were a number of changes to the
Board during the year.  Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005,
having served six years as Chairman, and Dipesh Shah, a non-
executive director since November 2003, was appointed as non-
executive Chairman on 1 May 2005.  John Biles, formerly Finance
Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a non-executive director on 
23 August 2005 and Chairman of the Audit Committee from 
1 October 2005.  Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity
Infrastructure, was appointed as an executive director on 2 March
2006, thereby increasing the number of executive directors to four.   
In the opinion of the Board, each of the non-executive directors is
currently independent under the criteria set out in the Code.  The
Board is aware of the non-executive directors’ other commitments
and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties.  The wide
ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors
ensure that they can contribute significantly to the Board and,
specifically, engage in constructive debate and challenge
management in relation to both the development of strategy and the
performance of the Group.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and the Group Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing
and agreed by the Board.
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual
General Meeting (AGM) following their appointment. John Biles,
appointed on 23 August 2005, and Laurence MacKenzie, appointed
on 2 March 2006, will seek election at the forthcoming AGM.  All
directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the AGM at
least every three years.  Harry McCracken, last re-elected by
shareholders in 2003, will seek re-election at the AGM.  The Board
of Directors section contains biographical details of each director.  
The directors have direct access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures
are observed.  The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for
the Board as a whole.  Independent professional advice may also be
taken, at the Company’s expense, by directors in the furtherance of
their duties.  
Newly appointed directors undergo a structured induction
programme, including site visits, to ensure that they have the
necessary knowledge and understanding of the Group and its
activities.  Updates are provided when required to refresh directors’
skills and knowledge.   Continuing development is provided through
briefing sessions in the course of scheduled Board meetings 
and other briefing opportunities, covering business specific and
broader issues.  
Board Proceedings
In order to ensure effective control of the Group, the Board reserves
certain matters for decision to itself.  These include:
• long-term objectives and strategy;
• business plans and budgets;
• internal control arrangements;
• announcement of results and approval of annual report and
accounts;
• dividend policy;
• Board committees and their terms of reference;
• major capital expenditure;
• significant Group policies; and 
• acquisitions and divestments.
The Board manages these matters through its regular and special
Board meetings and strategy review meetings.  Briefing papers are
provided to directors several days in advance of meetings.  At each
meeting the Board reviews financial and business performance
against the budget and plans approved by the Board.  It also
receives reports and presentations from the businesses and minutes
and/or oral reports from the meetings of its committees.  This
ensures that all directors are aware of, and are in a position to
monitor effectively, the Group’s operations and current issues.
Specific business, which needs to be addressed between scheduled
Board meetings, is dealt with at special Board meetings, often by
conference telephone.  The Chairman meets the non-executive
directors informally, without executive directors being present, at
least once during the year.  These meetings and other regular
informal discussions create the opportunity for valuable input from
the non-executive directors. Corporate Governance 22
To ensure that its broad range of responsibilities is managed
effectively and in an appropriate manner, the Board has established
a number of committees.  These include the Executive Committee,
the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the
Nomination Committee.  The Board has adopted terms of reference
for each of these committees which are available on request from
the Company and on the Group’s website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk).
Executive Committee
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading, managing and
controlling the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to those
matters reserved for decision by the Board.  He chairs the Executive
Committee, which is authorised, subject to the powers delegated to it
and to reporting its significant decisions to the next Board meeting,
to take whatever management action it considers necessary to
safeguard the interests of the Company and to further the strategy,
business objectives and targets established by the Board.  During
the year, the Executive Committee comprised the executive directors
and Ian Thom, Company Secretary. Laurence MacKenzie, Managing
Director Electricity Infrastructure, was also a member of the
Committee prior to his appointment as an executive director.  There
were 11 scheduled meetings and a number of additional meetings to
consider specific issues.  The Chairman may attend these meetings
at his discretion.  The key responsibilities and tasks delegated to the
Committee include:
• implementing Board policy;
• ensuring effective performance and co-ordination of the Group’s
business activities;
• overseeing financial and operational performance, including
health and safety and environmental performance;
• monitoring and implementing improvements in financial
performance;
• approving expenditure and other financial commitments as
delegated by the Board;
• considering major changes in organisational structure; and 
• approving appointments to boards of subsidiary companies.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Duncan
Lewis (Chairman), Mike Toms and, from 1 October 2005, John
Biles.  Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee on his
appointment as Chairman on 1 May 2005.  The Committee’s
function is to determine remuneration policy and specific
remuneration packages for executive directors, the Chairman and
the Company Secretary, including, where appropriate, pension
arrangements and service contracts, and to recommend and monitor
the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.  The
Committee consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the
other executive directors’ and the Company Secretary’s
remuneration.  The activities of the Committee, remuneration policy
and the remuneration of directors, are described in the Directors’
Remuneration Report.
Nomination Committee
Dipesh Shah, the Chairman of the Board, chairs the Nomination
Committee.  During the year its other members were Duncan Lewis,
Mike Toms, Patrick Haren and, from 7 October 2005, John Biles.
Philip Rogerson chaired the Committee until his retirement on 
30 April 2005.  The Committee met on four occasions.  It has a
remit to:
• consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new
appointments of directors having regard to the overall balance
and composition of the Board; 
• consider succession planning; and
• make recommendations to the Board concerning the 
re-appointment of any non-executive director following
conclusion of his or her specified term of office. 
During the year members of the Committee interviewed candidates
identified by executive search consultants, for the role of non-
executive director, based on a description of the skills and
experience stipulated by the Committee.  The outcome was a
recommendation, in August 2005 from the Committee to the Board,
to appoint John Biles as a non-executive director.  In March 2006,
the Committee considered and recommended to the Board the
appointment of Laurence MacKenzie as an executive director.
A description of the role and capabilities for the appointment of a
further non-executive director was prepared and the Committee has
retained executive search consultants to identify candidates with a
view to maintaining the balance, skills and abilities on the Board and
to provide an opportunity to enhance membership of the Board’s
committees.  It is anticipated that the Committee will recommend
the appointment of a further non-executive director during 2006/07.
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee currently comprises John Biles (Chairman),
Duncan Lewis and Mike Toms.  Mike Toms chaired the Committee
until the appointment of John Biles on 1 October 2005.  On his
appointment as Chairman of the Board on 1 May 2005, Dipesh
Shah stood down from the Committee.  The Board is satisfied that at
least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant
financial experience.  The Board of Directors section contains
biographical details of the current members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee meets quarterly. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Governance 23
The external auditors (Ernst and Young LLP), the internal auditors
(PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), the Chairman of the Board and
executive directors may attend meetings at the invitation of the
Committee.  The Committee’s remit is to:
• monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance; 
• review significant financial reporting issues and judgements;
• review accounting policies;
• monitor and review the effectiveness of internal controls and the
Group’s risk management system;
• monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit
function;
• oversee the relationship with the external auditors; and
• make recommendations on these matters to the Board for
decision.
During the year, the Committee received at each meeting a report
from the Risk Management Committee covering its review of
business risk registers and steps taken to enhance further the risk
management framework within the Group.  Each meeting of the
Committee also received a report from the internal auditors covering
risk assurance and updates on work carried out under the internal
audit plan.  The external auditors provide the Committee with reports
on the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.  During the
year, the Committee considered progress reports on the
implementation of IFRS.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the
appointment of internal and external auditors and their remuneration
and determines their terms of engagement.  The Committee has
carried out assessments of the external auditors’ independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process, and
the internal auditors’ effectiveness, taking into consideration relevant
UK professional and regulatory requirements and the guidance set
out in the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees.  The results of the
assessments were reported to the Board.  A policy is in place on the
employment of former employees of the external auditors.
The Board has a policy which specifies areas of non-audit services
that can be carried out by the external auditors and the financial
thresholds above which non-audit services require the approval of
the Board.  Any individual fees in relation to non-audit services in
excess of 50% of the annual audit fee and/or any excess of the
aggregate fees for non-audit services above 100% of the annual
audit fee require Board approval.  Within these parameters, where it
is considered reasonable that the external auditors undertake non-
audit services for sound commercial and practical reasons without
inhibiting their objectivity, then engagement is permitted.  Such
services include independent certification, reporting for Stock
Exchange purposes and tax.  The cost of services provided by the
external auditors during the year is detailed in note 5 to the
accounts.  Most of the cost of non-audit services was associated
with tax and assurance services including the disposal of Sx3.
Involvement by the external auditors in these areas was considered
appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the Group.   
During the year the Committee reviewed the Group’s
“whistleblowing” arrangements, whereby employees may raise
concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and
other matters and have them investigated.
Attendance at Meetings
The following table shows the number of, and each individual member’s attendance at, meetings of the Board as well as of the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Director John Patrick Patrick Duncan Laurence Harry Philip Dipesh Mike
Biles
1
Bourke Haren Lewis MacKenzie
2
McCracken Rogerson
3
Shah
4
Toms
5
Committee (N, R, A*) (N) (N, R*, A) (N*) (N*, R, A) (N, R, A*)
Membership
(* denotes chairman)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Board
(14 meetings
6
) 5 14 13 13 - 12 1 14 12
Nomination 
(5 meetings) 2 5 5 1 5 5 
Remuneration 
(7 meetings) 3 7 1 7
Audit
(4 meetings) 2 4 4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
N - Nomination Committee 
1
Appointed as a non-executive director on 23 August 2005.  Chairman of the Audit Committee,
R - Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, since October 2005
A - Audit Committee
2
Appointed as an executive director in March 2006
3
Retired in April 2005
4
Chairman of the Board since May 2005.  Stood down from the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2005
5
Chairman of the Audit Committee until October 2005
6
Comprising 10 scheduled meetings and four special meetings to consider specific matters Corporate Governance 24
Board Performance Evaluation
During the year the Board, through the Company Secretary,
conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its
committees and individual directors.  Board members completed a
questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Board and the Chairman.
In addition, Board committee members completed a questionnaire
on each committee’s performance.  Duncan Lewis, the Senior
Independent Director, also met separately with the non-executive
directors, taking into account the views of the executive directors, to
discuss the performance of the Chairman.  Based on the responses
to the questionnaire and these meetings a report was considered by
the Board and individual committees as appropriate and, although
no significant issues were identified, suggested improvements have
been implemented to enhance Board performance.  A review of 
the performance of each director was also carried out by Dipesh
Shah.  The Board will continue to evaluate its performance on an
annual basis.
Communications with Shareholders
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have
regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and
analysts.  The Chairman meets with major shareholders from time to
time and during the year has advised major shareholders, in writing,
of his availability (along with that of the Senior Independent Director
and the newly appointed non-executive director) should there be
issues which the shareholders wish to discuss.  The Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee concluded a consultation with major
shareholders on proposed changes to executive directors’
remuneration policy.
The Board receives regular feedback from analysts and major
shareholders, compiled by the Company’s brokers and financial PR
consultants, in particular following presentations and meetings on
the publication of financial results.  Analysts’ notes are provided to
the Board on a regular basis. 
The principal method of communicating with the majority of
shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts or Annual
Review and Summary Financial Statement and the Company’s
website which contains details of financial presentations to major
shareholders and other information about the Group.  All
shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM.  All directors
were present at the 2005 AGM and all intend to be present at the
2006 AGM to answer shareholders’ questions.
Internal Control
Turnbull compliance
The Board has fully implemented the FRC’s Internal Control: Revised
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in October
2005 (Revised Turnbull Guidance). 
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness.  Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.  The Board’s
monitoring of controls covers a wide range including financial,
operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the Group's significant risks.  This process has been in place for the
year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of approval of the
Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board. 
During the year, work has continued through the internal control and
risk management process to deal with areas of improvement which
come to management’s and the Board’s attention. The Board has
not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has
determined to be significant.  
Risk management
The Group’s strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, which
effectively manages exposures related to the achievement of
business objectives.  The Risk Management Committee, chaired by
the Group Finance Director, comprises a number of senior managers
from across the Group and meets monthly to assist the Board in
fulfilling its risk management and control responsibilities.  It reports
to the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board on
a regular basis.  The Committee regularly reviews individual business
risk registers as well as registers covering a number of functional
areas including group finance, treasury, regulatory affairs and
procurement and also receives regular updates on IT governance
arrangements.  The Committee also reviews business continuity and
IT disaster recovery arrangements and has responsibility for
monitoring the Group’s CSR strategy and programmes.  
Risk issues are also addressed at management meetings through
the review of risk registers.  These meetings consider early 
warning signs of risks materialising and significant control failings 
or weaknesses.
The Executive Committee and the Board specifically consider the
corporate risk register which sets out those risks which are managed
at a corporate level and/or the management of which is determined
by policy set at a corporate level: Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Governance 25
Regulatory risk
In Northern Ireland, the main regulatory risks faced by the Group
relate to the management by NIE of a wide range of regulatory
transactions with NIAER and DETI, including compliance with the
Licence, the impact of price control reviews, the development of
systems for market opening and the introduction of the SEM.  The
regulatory framework within which NIE operates is described in the
Operating Review.
NIE’s relationship with NIAER and DETI is managed by senior
management and by a dedicated regulatory affairs team through
frequent meetings, informed dialogue and formal correspondence.
The regulatory team also monitors licence compliance and the status
of current regulatory transactions.  NIE’s approach to price control
reviews is to be pro-active in promoting approaches that will lead to
an agreed outcome.  These include the extension of price controls in
return for undertakings by the regulated business and adherence to
relevant precedent and best practice.
In the RoI, the Group is exposed, through VP&E, to the impact of
regulatory decisions as well as changes in legislation and/or
regulation which impact its generation or supply activities, including
the introduction of the SEM.  The regulatory framework in the RoI is
described in the Operating Review.
Through senior management and its regulatory team, VP&E
maintains regular interaction with both CER and DCMNR at a
number of levels.  A pro-active approach is taken to consultations by
CER and DCMNR on matters such as existing wholesale
arrangements, proposed rules under the SEM, renewable energy
support and tariff setting.
Business performance risk
Business performance risk is the risk that one or more of the
Group’s businesses may not perform as expected either due to
internal factors or due to competitive pressures in the markets in
which they operate.  Performance risks specific to each business are
identified in individual business risk registers and managed at that
level.  At the Group level, business performance risk is managed
through a number of measures: ensuring the appropriate
management team is in place for each business; rigorous budget
and business planning; monthly reporting and variance analysis;
financial controls; key performance indicators; and regular
forecasting.
Business continuity risk
The Group has in place measures to manage the risk that one or
more of its businesses sustains a greater than necessary financial
impact through inability to carry on its operations either for a short or
prolonged period.  These include managing the risk of damage to
the T&D network because of adverse weather conditions and the risk
of interruptions to Huntstown 1’s availability.  In general, such risks
are managed through: prudent and safe operational processes; a
focused capital expenditure programme; sound maintenance
practices; and insurance measures such as business interruption
insurance.  A specific emergency plan, regularly reviewed and
tested, exists to address major incidents impacting the T&D network.
In addition, each business maintains a business continuity plan and
there is an IT disaster recovery plan which covers the whole Group.
These plans are reviewed and tested annually.  
Health and safety risk
The Group is committed to ensuring a safe working environment.
The risks arising from inadequate management of health and safety
matters are the exposure of employees and third parties to the risk
of injury, potential liability and/or loss of reputation.  These risks are
closely managed by the Group through: the strong promotion of a
health and safety culture; well defined health and safety policies;
and the Group’s health, safety and risk business plan.  The Group’s
approach to health and safety issues is described more fully in the
CSR Report.
Management development
Long-term competitiveness and viability of the business depends on
the Group’s ability to retain and attract personnel of high quality.
This risk is managed through development plans which are regularly
reviewed and updated.  These are accompanied by specific policies
in areas such as training, management development and
performance management.  Senior management succession is
reviewed by the Board.
Financial and business control
Strong financial and business controls are necessary to ensure the
integrity and reliability of financial and other information on which
the Group relies for day-to-day operations, external reporting and for
longer term planning.  The Group exercises financial and business
control through a combination of: qualified and experienced financial
teams; detailed performance analysis; established policies in areas
such as treasury and commodity hedging; budgeting and cash flow
forecasting; a fully integrated accounting system; and clearly defined
approval limits.  The internal auditors test effectiveness of financial
and business controls.  The external auditors provide advice on
specific accounting and taxation issues as they arise.
Pension risk
The Group is required to manage the risk that the costs of meeting
its pension obligations increase in excess of expectations.  The
Focus (defined benefit) section of the Viridian Group Pension
Scheme (VGPS) was closed to new entrants in 1998.  Specialist
actuarial and investment advice is taken with respect to
management of VGPS’s assets and liabilities.  During the year, the
Group supported VGPS’s decisions to take a liability-driven approach
to the management of its bond portfolio and to introduce currency
hedging for its overseas equity assets.  In July 2005 the Group
applied £25m of the proceeds from the disposal of Sx3 towards the
pension deficit in VGPS.
Strategic planning
The Group faces the risk that it fails to plan appropriately for the
medium to long-term.  Each year a five year business plan is
reviewed by the Board.  In addition, the Board holds a strategy
review, at least annually, to consider the Group’s plans against a
background of the strategic opportunities and threats it faces.
Investment decisions are accompanied by detailed analysis, both
short and long-term, of the markets in which the Group operates. Corporate Governance 26
Social, ethical and environmental risk
The Group has in place measures to protect against financial and
reputational risk from any failure to manage social, ethical and
environmental (SEE) risks.  In general, SEE risks are managed
through embedding CSR into the Group’s management processes
and core business activities.  SEE risks are incorporated into each
risk register.  Environmental risk, in particular, is managed through: 
a detailed environmental risk register; an environmental action plan;
a certified environmental management system; and identification 
of potential environmental exposures.  These matters are monitored
by nominated environmental compliance officers in key parts of 
the business.
Internal audit
The Group’s emphasis on sound management structures and
policies and procedures is backed up by operational and financial
review mechanisms and an externally resourced internal audit
function, provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  During the year,
the internal auditors have carried out a programme of audits and a
review of the risk management process.  The internal auditors report
to the Executive Committee each month and results of audits are
reported to management and the Audit Committee.  In addition, the
internal auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee.  The
internal auditors carry out follow-up reviews to determine the extent
of implementation of actions that have been agreed by management.
The annual internal audit and risk assurance programme and
significant internal audit findings are reviewed by the Audit
Committee, as are any relevant reports prepared by the 
external auditors. 
Annual assessment
The Board has carried out its annual review of effectiveness of the
system of internal control.  In doing so it considered a report from
the Executive Committee on its assessment of current significant
risks.  A report from the Risk Management Committee verified that
each executive director and senior manager had signed a letter of
representation confirming his or her responsibility in relation to
internal control and the completeness and accuracy of his or her
risk register and risk reporting, disclosing any known material 
failings or weaknesses in internal controls.  Reports were also
considered from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on risk
management issues and from the internal auditors on the risk
management process. 
The Board regards the development of the system of internal control
as an ongoing process and continues to review and develop the
internal control systems of the Group. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Social Responsibility 27
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The Group is committed to operating in a socially, ethically and
environmentally responsible manner.  It aims to be recognised as
transparent and ethical in its dealings and to contribute to the
general economic and social well-being and development of the
communities in which it operates.  The Group has complied in this
report with the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of
British Insurers (ABI).  The Group’s commitment to CSR is
recognised by its membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
The Group has fully integrated SEE matters into its mainstream
management processes and risk management framework.  During
the year, the Board has taken regular account of the significance of
SEE matters to the Group’s business.  The Board considers that it
has received adequate information to enable it to identify and assess
significant SEE matters which may have an impact on the value of
the Group, and the Board is satisfied that SEE matters are currently
managed so as not to represent a material risk to the Group.  There
are effective systems for managing SEE-related risks and the delivery
of CSR targets has been linked to bonus entitlements set for
executive directors and other senior managers.
The Group’s CSR policy is supported by other policies covering
environment, health and safety, community involvement and human
resources.  During the year the Board adopted a new ethical 
dealing policy. 
The Group Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for CSR
strategy and is assisted by the Company Secretary and a CSR co-
ordinator.  CSR compliance officers co-ordinate individual
businesses’ responses to SEE matters.  A strategic action plan is in
place which identifies CSR actions and priorities.  
Specific SEE-related matters, such as health and safety, regulation
and the environment, are the subject of ongoing reporting and
presentations to the Board.  The Board is satisfied that individual
SEE training needs for directors have been fulfilled.  A training
programme, incorporating SEE dimensions, has been developed for
new directors and was delivered as required during the year.
The principal mechanism for the management of SEE risks and
opportunities is the Group’s risk management framework.  Risk
registers identify, assess and make explicit risks deemed to have
specific SEE/CSR dimensions.  Consideration is given to any
additional actions required, and CSR themes and priorities are
defined and incorporated in risk registers as appropriate.  During the
year the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for
overseeing compliance with the Group’s CSR policy, reviewed the
key CSR themes and priorities for each business.  The corporate risk
register was similarly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the
Board on three occasions during the year.  
The following have been defined by the Board as the principal CSR
themes and priorities relevant to the management of the Group’s
exposures to SEE-related risks that may impact upon the short and
long-term value of the Group:  
• ensuring the safety of employees, contractors and the general
public through adherence to recognised safety standards, and
the promotion of a positive health and safety culture throughout
the Group;
• maintaining a commitment to a working environment in which
personal and employment rights are upheld and ensuring
equality of opportunity for all employees and job applicants;
• maintaining a commitment to a working environment which
enables employees to realise their maximum potential and to be
appropriately challenged and fully engaged in the business, with
opportunities for skill enhancement, personal development and
employee share ownership;
• making a positive contribution to the physical environment
through environmentally responsible management and
adherence to relevant statutory and regulatory standards; 
• contributing to a reduction of the impact of energy-related
activities on the environment through the promotion and
provision of renewable energy options, environmentally-friendly
energy and energy efficiency measures;
• commitment to NIE Supply’s social action plans, including
attention to bad debt prevention, the continued promotion of
keypad meters and the provision of services to customers with
special needs;
• continuing to deliver available efficiency improvements and
investing within the limits of price controls to provide the
Northern Ireland community with a safe and reliable electricity
transmission and distribution infrastructure and a quality service
at an affordable price; and
• maintaining a highly ethical approach to regulatory
responsibilities, obligations under licences, public positioning
and marketing of products and services.
The Group’s externally resourced internal audit function has
reviewed and verified the SEE/CSR disclosures contained in this
report.  The internal auditors were satisfied that the disclosures are
supported by adequate and appropriate evidence.  Their review
concluded that the Group had appropriately adopted the
requirements of the ABI guidelines on Socially Responsible
Investment and assigned an overall assurance rating of high.  In
addition, key elements of the Group’s CSR activities are subject to
additional verification, including ISO 14001, externally verified by
British Standards Institute (BSI) and Investors in People (IIP).  Corporate Social Responsibility 28
Workplace
The Group is fully aware of its obligations to employees and
contractors under health and safety legislation.  The Group’s health
and safety policy aims to promote high standards and is supported
by specific safety principles, rules, policies and procedures.
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure,
has responsibility for health and safety at Board level.  
The Group health and safety management system is structured upon
the principles of the Health & Safety Executive for Northern Ireland
(HSENI) guidance “Successful Health and Safety Management” and
the Health and Safety Commission guidance “Directors’
Responsibilities for Health and Safety”.  To further strengthen the
health and safety management system, the Group has adopted
recommendations from a quality safety audit of T&D and Powerteam
undertaken by the RoSPA (Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents) in 2004.  The Group safety and risk department regularly
engages with relevant organisations including the HSENI, DETI, the
Department of Trade and Industry and the Electricity Networks
Association (ENA).
Formal processes for accident investigation and incident analysis are
in place.  During the year there was a total of seven reportable
accidents across the Group compared to 14 in the previous year.
The most serious lost time incident involved the failure of a mobile
elevated work platform in which a linesman sustained serious back
injuries.  The other lost time incidents resulted in minor injuries as a
result of manual handling, slips, trips and falls.  The LTIR, which
measures the number of lost time incidents per 100 employees,
reduced from 0.7 to 0.3. 
KPI 2006 2005
Number Number
_______________________________________________________________________
LTIR (per 100 employees) 0.3 0.7
Contractors working on NIE’s electricity network must adhere to the
same safety rules and requirements as Group employees.  There
were no employee or contractor fatalities during the year.  However,
a person engaged in road resurfacing was tragically killed in an
incident involving an 11,000 volt overhead line in February 2006.
The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for employment
issues, including equal opportunities, and is supported by the
General Manager, Group Human Resources.  The Group’s approach
to employment-related performance, such as safety and sickness
absence, is to set targets in line with best practice in similar
industries.  The Group reports its safety performance to the ENA.
Equal opportunity measures and reporting are formally presented to
the Equality Commission.  The Group’s equal opportunities policy
commits the Group to providing equality of opportunity for all
employees and job applicants.  Employment decisions exclude
consideration of an individual’s religious belief, political opinion,
gender, marital status, family status, dependency, disability, race,
ethnic origin, nationality, sexual preference, age, irrelevant criminal
convictions or any other personal factor which is not relevant.  Equal
opportunities, harassment and disability policies have been updated
to remain consistent with best practice and changing legislation.
The Group’s last disability survey showed that 2.2% of employees
considered themselves as having a disability.
There were no occasions during the year when the Group was found
to have failed to comply with equal opportunities legislation.  The NI
Equality Commission commended the Group’s most recent Article
55 Review of Fair Employment for the period May 2001 to May
2004, carried out in accordance with the Fair Employment and
Treatment Order 1998.
The Group believes that the pro-active management of illness and
absenteeism is to the mutual benefit of the Group and its
employees.  The Group uses an outsourced occupational health
service operating on a management-referral or self-referral basis, as
well as a welfare consultant who is available to provide confidential
advice to all employees.  Existing health-related policies cover
mental health, HIV infection and AIDS, alcohol and drug-related
problems, smoking and first aid.  During the year an employee
health and well-being policy was developed and communicated to 
all employees.  Sickness absence for the Group was 2.95% in
2005/06 compared to 2.89% the previous year, below the national
average of 3.70%.
In addition to formal complaints and grievance procedures, the
Group has 13 trained harassment advisers and a harassment advice
line.  The Group engages with relevant external organisations,
including Opportunity Now, which promotes equality on gender, the
NI Equality Forum, an employers’ forum for sharing knowledge and
best practice on equality issues, the NI Equality Commission, the
Employers’ Forum on Disability and the NI Association for the Care
and Resettlement of Offenders.    
The Group has a wide range of family-friendly working arrangements
in place including maternity, paternity, adoption, parental and
dependant leave, a child care scheme, career breaks, job sharing
and flexible working hours.
Eligible employees have the opportunity to participate in employee
share schemes.  A savings related share option scheme (Sharesave
Scheme) approved by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) has been in
place since privatisation in 1993.  54% of eligible employees
participated in the grant of options under the Sharesave Scheme
made during the year.  57% of eligible employees currently
participate in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
Learning and development needs are identified through
performance, planning and review (PPR) processes.  NIE and
Powerteam are IIP accredited, having been re-accredited in July
2003 and February 2004 respectively.  
The Group places a significant emphasis on internal
communications.  Employee communications occur through a
variety of channels, including team briefings, employee surveys,
involvement groups, company forums and through interaction and
consultation with trade unions.  Communications are managed at
the individual level and the PPR processes have been designed to
include upward feedback.  During the year an employee survey
(comprising both written questionnaires and focus groups) was
undertaken to identify the views of employees on a range of
business issues.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Social Responsibility 29
Environment
Harry McCracken, Group Managing Director VP&E, is the Board
member with responsibility for environmental issues.  The
environmental policy commits the Group to protecting the
environment and is designed to ensure compliance with all relevant
legislative and regulatory requirements.  Where practical and
economically viable, the Group seeks to develop standards in excess
of such requirements.  Areas of particular focus include measures to
protect against oil pollution, the responsible management of
emissions and waste and the promotion of energy efficiency.  
Annual and five year targets are set for NIE and Powerteam in the
environmental action plan.  Performance indicators have been set
for all relevant new contractors to reduce waste to landfill.  NIE and
Powerteam have 24 trained environmental auditors and 15 audits
were completed during the year.  The Group has designated
environmental compliance officers for its relevant operations.
Following the seventh environmental management survey conducted
by ARENA Network in Northern Ireland in 2004, the Group attained
the top position for the utilities sector, achieving an overall score of
95.8%.  The sector average was 80%, with an overall average of
65% for all participating organisations.  There were no prosecutions
for non-compliance with environmental legislation during the year. 
Since June 2001, NIE and Powerteam have been certified to ISO
14001 and continued certification was approved during the year.
The environmental management system was updated during the
year to ensure compliance with the new ISO 14001: 2004 standard,
which came into effect in May 2006.  External verification of
compliance with the new standard was confirmed in March 2006.  
Huntstown 1 operates in compliance with its Integrated Pollution
Control (IPC) licence, with reporting on emissions based on calendar
years.  For calendar year 2005, the station’s emissions of NO
x
, SO
2
and CO
2
were 512 tonnes, 0.3 tonnes and 851,847 tonnes
respectively.  In 2006 Huntstown 1 achieved full verification
compliance under the ETS through surrendering CO
2
credits to 
meet its CO
2
emissions for calendar year 2005 well within the
allotted time frame.  During the year, Huntstown 1 progressed
towards attaining ISO 14001 for its plant environmental system 
and management process.  Huntstown 1 is exempt from the
requirements of the LCP Directive, as transposed into RoI law,
having been licensed and put into operation before the applicable
date when they came into force.  Notwithstanding its exemption, the
plant complies with the emission limits for NO
x
, SO
2
and dust under
the LCP Directive.
During the year NIE Supply managed a £4.6m energy efficiency
programme, approved by NIAER and audited by the Energy Saving
Trust.  This programme is aimed at reducing  CO
2
emissions and
alleviating fuel poverty.  During the year a total of 26 energy
efficiency schemes were implemented with estimated lifetime
reductions of 400GWh in energy demand.  This represented an
estimated 112,000 tonnes of CO
2
savings and customer benefits of
£23m over the lifetime of these measures.  Many of these schemes
were developed to target the most vulnerable customers providing
“whole house” energy efficiency solutions.  In addition, through
commitments in NIE Supply’s price control, a further £15m of
lifetime savings to customers has been delivered through investment
in energy efficiency measures since 2000.  NIE Supply has
continued to promote EcoEnergy, its “green” electricity tariff, which
currently has 18,200 customers.  NIE Supply has also made
significant progress towards its price control target to encourage
1,000 micro-renewable installations, with 291 completed and a
further 337 being developed.  NIE was awarded the Excellence in
Environmental Achievement Award at the Belfast Telegraph Business
Awards in April 2005.  
The Group provides financial support to Action Renewables, a joint
venture with DETI aimed at raising awareness and encouraging the
installation of renewable energy technologies in Northern Ireland.  
An ESCo (Energy Services Company) project team has been
established within NIE Supply to oversee sustainable energy
activities, regulated and unregulated, and to consider business
opportunities in this emerging field.  
The NIE Sustainable Management of Assets and Renewable
Technologies (SMART) programme (www.niesmart.co.uk) is part of
the current regulatory framework agreed between T&D and NIAER.
The programme has been developed to support emerging renewable
technologies and to encourage environmentally-friendly approaches
to the provision of T&D network infrastructure to meet customer
demand in Northern Ireland.  A total of 37 renewable programmes
and projects is now being funded and managed under the SMART
programme with £3.4m committed.  Technologies targeted for
support include photovoltaics, solar water heating, biomass,
domestic CHP, tidal power and hydro-electric power.  
Energia continues to promote energy efficiency schemes through the
Customer Energy Efficiency Levy approved by NIAER.  In 2005/06 a
total of 52 schemes was supported delivering estimated annual
savings of £0.4m. 
Marketplace
The Group aims to be transparent and ethical in all its dealings with
third parties and has a number of policies in place to underpin this
objective.  Policies include internal “whistleblowing” procedures as
well as the Group’s corporate governance arrangements.  The new
ethical dealing policy was communicated to employees during 
the year.
The Group’s procurement practices aim to ensure transparency and
fairness in dealings with suppliers, including a policy to make
payment to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of business.  
As a major purchaser the Group recognises that it has an
opportunity to encourage suppliers of materials and services to
deliver good environmental and safety performance and to maintain
responsible practices towards their employees and the communities
in which they operate.  The Group subscribes to the Achilles utilities
vendor database to pre-qualify potential suppliers for major
contracts; this assessment includes environmental and health and
safety practices.  All suppliers are pre-qualified on a fair and equal
basis.  The Group’s procurement team carries out supplier
assessments on other contracts not processed through Achilles,
through an assessment of environmental and health and safety
practices as submitted in tender documentation.  Evidence that
potential vendors support and respect internationally-proclaimed
human rights is sought during the invitation-to-tender stage of the
procurement process.   Corporate Social Responsibility 30
During the year the procurement team reviewed its invitation-to-
tender documents to request CSR information, updated its supplier
questionnaire to include ethical questions and developed a CSR and
quality check-list for supplier audits.  Six audits were completed
during the year.
Following three years of business growth in the RoI, Energia won the
Queen’s Award for Enterprise: International Trade in 2005.
Community
Through its mainstream business activities and its community
involvement policy, the Group seeks to contribute to economic and
social development and environmental improvements in the local
communities in which it operates, both in Northern Ireland and in
the RoI.  The Group’s community involvement policy is aligned to
three key themes: growth, safety and environment.  
During the year, NIE operated an on-going public safety awareness
programme, promoting the importance of electrical safety to farmers
and agricultural and building contractors through the HSENI and
NIE farm safety road show, safety presentations and farm safety
leaflets.  The NIE-initiated “Kidzsafe” programme, conducted in
association with other agencies including the Department of the
Environment, the Northern Ireland Fire Brigade and the Police
Service of Northern Ireland, raises safety awareness among school
children in an effort to reduce incidences of vandalism and
electricity-related injuries.  Over 13,800 school children attended
presentations under this safety awareness programme during the
year and the NIE Kidzsafe website (www.niesafety.co.uk) continues
to support the programme.  
NIE offers contractors undertaking roadworks a wide range of advice
and assistance to help them avoid damaging electrical underground
cables.  This includes advice leaflets, videos and providing
diagrams, when requested, of the underground electricity network,
as well as advising contractors to check NIE’s website
(www.niesafety.co.uk) for additional safety advice.  
The Group recognises the social dimension of debt management
and NIE Supply continues to offer a wide range of payment options
and debt prevention measures.  As part of its price control, NIE
Supply has a target to install 175,000 keypad meters by March
2007.  At 31 March 2006 some 170,000 meters were installed.
This pay-as-you-go metering enables customers to budget for their
electricity payments, whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the
standard price of electricity, and provides friendly credit and user-
friendly consumption information.  There are over 1,300 outlets in
Northern Ireland from which NIE Supply customers can buy keypad
meter credits, as well as a telephone vending facility.  
NIE provides financial and in-kind support for Northern Ireland’s
Energy Efficiency Advice Centres and engages with organisations
including the Fuel Poverty Partnership Group and the Department of
Social Development. 
NIE aims to ensure that its customers receive a quality service at an
affordable price.  By the end of RP3, T&D prices will have reduced
by around 43% in real terms since privatisation.  T&D’s strong
record of cost efficiency, delivered while improving network
performance and performance against customer standards, is part of
its mainstream business commitment to the community.  Key
performance indicators used to report network performance and
customer service include CML, guaranteed and overall standards
and customer complaints.   Further details on T&D’s operating
performance during the year are outlined in the Operating Review.  
NIE offers a number of services to its customers that are promoted
through its codes of practice and through various advice providers,
including Citizens Advice Bureaux, Advice NI and Energy Efficiency
Advice Centres.  The codes are produced in several different
languages.  NIE aims to assist its customers with special needs
through a number of these services.  The total number of customers
using the critical care register is 2,662, with 2,593 on the customer
care register.  At 31 March 2006, 651 customers were users of NIE’s
password scheme, a service which provides customers with
additional proof of identity of agents calling at their homes.
During the year, the Group sponsored various charities and
organisations with sponsorship totalling £145,000.  Other examples
of community involvement during the year included:
• the Viridian Growth Fund, which is supported by public and
private sector investors including the Group and VGPS, had, at
31 March 2006, invested a total of £3.1m in developing
businesses in Northern Ireland;
• major sponsor of the Enzyme project, designed to encourage
entrepreneurs through an incubation and mentoring process;
• a one-off donation of £30,000 on behalf of Viridian shareholders
to the Salvation Army and St. Vincent de Paul NI;
• the Prince’s Trust and Young Enterprise initiatives, both
supported through the provision of office accommodation and
other facilities; 
• participation in the “Tree For All” campaign organised by the
Woodland Trust;
• the coaching of chief executives of local voluntary organisations
by senior managers within the Group;
• assisting voluntary sector organisations in the recruitment of key
staff and the development of human resource policies and
procedures;
• provision of guidance and advice on energy efficiency,
renewable energy and safety at the Royal Ulster Agricultural
Society’s annual show;
• monthly presentations to various business representative groups
including the Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of
Small Businesses; 
• further support for the NIE Farm Energy Scholarship Scheme
offering financial assistance to students from Northern Ireland
attending Harper Adams University College; and
• sponsorship of two engineering students at university. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Corporate Social Responsibility 31
Stakeholder Engagement
The Group recognises the importance of engaging with its
stakeholders.  The Group recognises a range of stakeholders,
including its shareholders, customers, employees, the wider
community, those representing the environment and its suppliers.  
During the year a stakeholder engagement strategy was developed to
capture more clearly the totality of the Group’s stakeholder
engagement in relation to CSR.
Stakeholder engagement has been referred to throughout this CSR
Report.  Other examples of stakeholder activity during the year
included:
• regular interaction with the Consumer Council on a wide range
of customer issues including complaints;
• regular interaction and consultation with NIAER, CER and DETI;
• a critical care customer contact day and interaction with health
trusts to ensure that appropriate customers benefit from the
critical care scheme;
• independent external market research to obtain feedback from
NIE Supply’s business customers, as well as monthly internal
market research for NIE Supply’s HomeEnergy/business
customers;
• a review of NIE Supply’s literature/communications in
partnership with minority representative organisations;
• discussion with the Department for Social Development, Advice
NI, Citizens Advice Bureaux, Eaga Partnership and other
representative groups to develop NIE’s proposal for a vulnerable
customer fund to help alleviate fuel poverty;
• networking with a broad range of business representative
groups such as federations of retail trade, town centre
managers, enterprise agencies and Women in Business to
heighten awareness of issues affecting the local business
community;
• an energy efficiency seminar inviting representative
organisations to work in partnership with NIE;
• interaction with the Home Energy Conservation Authority
Advisory Panel, Fuel Poverty Advisory Group, Advice NI and
Citizens Advice Bureaux;
• ongoing discussions with trade unions on a wide range of issues
including pay negotiations, terms and conditions, productivity
improvements and policies;
• a seminar with major civil contractors to advise how to avoid
electricity cables when carrying out excavation work; 
• briefings on energy issues to relevant elected representatives
and politicians in both Northern Ireland and the RoI;
• representation on the NI Infrastructure Emergencies Planning
Forum; and
• liaison with contractors, landowners and environmental
representatives, including the Environment and Heritage Service
when undertaking environmental impact assessments.
The Group’s CSR policy and other CSR information can be found on
the Group’s website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk) under Corporate
Responsibility.   Directors’ Remuneration Report 32
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
This report is in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005.
Remuneration Committee and Advisers
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) consists solely of
independent non-executive directors and was chaired throughout
the year by Duncan Lewis.  Its other members are Mike Toms and
John Biles (from 1 October 2005).  Dipesh Shah stood down from
the Committee on his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 
1 May 2005.  The Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief
Executive attend certain meetings by invitation. 
The Committee operates within terms of reference agreed by the
Board.  The Committee’s function is to determine remuneration
policy and specific remuneration packages, including pension
arrangements and service contracts, for executive directors, the
Chairman and the Company Secretary.  The Committee’s role also
includes recommending and monitoring the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management below Board level.  The
Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s
website (www.viridiangroup.co.uk).
Towers Perrin have been independent remuneration consultants to
the Committee since October 2003, advising on all aspects of
directors’ remuneration except pensions.  Towers Perrin also provide
advice on senior management remuneration and non-executive
directors’ fees.  New Bridge Street Consultants have advised the
Committee on the implementation of long-term incentive
arrangements during the year.  Hewitt, investment advisers and
actuaries to VGPS, advise the Committee on pensions.  The
Committee consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the
other executive directors’ and the Company Secretary’s remuneration
and with the Chairman of the Board on aspects of the Group Chief
Executive’s remuneration. 
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s policy on executive directors’ remuneration for the
year ended 31 March 2006 was that the overall package should be
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality
executives capable of achieving the Group’s objectives and thereby
enhancing shareholder value.
The package consists of basic salary, benefits, performance-related
bonus, long-term incentive arrangements and pension benefits, with
a significant proportion based on performance and dependent upon
the achievement of corporate and individual targets.  Up to
approximately 70% of the total value of each executive director’s
remuneration package (excluding pension and benefits) is
performance-related in the event that the maximum amount of
annual performance bonus and long-term incentive awards are
achieved.  In setting performance-related remuneration the
Committee has regard to the provisions set out in Schedule A to the
Code.  Consideration is also given to pay and employment policies
elsewhere in the Group. 
This report sets out the Company’s policy on executive directors’
remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2006 and, so far as
practicable, for subsequent years.  There are no plans to change
any elements of remuneration.  However, the Committee considers
that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible
to take account of future changes in the Company’s business
environment and in remuneration practice.  Any changes in policy in
subsequent years will be described in future Directors’
Remuneration Reports, which will continue to be put to shareholders
for approval. 
Basic salary and benefits
Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually taking account
of mid-market levels amongst FTSE mid-250 companies generally,
with a focus on a group of companies of a similar size in the
electricity, utilities, transport and support services sectors.  Other
benefits include a company car and fuel, or an equivalent cash-for-
car allowance, private health insurance and the value of matching
shares under the SIP.
Annual performance bonus
The annual performance bonus is a non-pensionable cash payment
for achieving targets set by the Committee.  The maximum bonus
opportunity for each executive director is 50% of basic salary, with
the level of bonus awarded depending on performance against
challenging corporate and individual targets.  35% is dependent
upon achieving a target pro-forma earnings per share and the
remaining 15% of the maximum bonus is linked to individual targets
agreed for each executive director by the Committee.  These
individual targets relate to the achievement of key business
objectives, both short-term and long-term, including the
development of new business opportunities and improvements in
operating efficiencies where appropriate.  The Committee reviews
targets and criteria annually to ensure appropriate measurement of
performance.  For the year ended 31 March 2006 the pro-forma
earnings per share target for maximum bonus was exceeded and, as
their individual targets were also achieved, each executive director in
position throughout the year was awarded the maximum bonus.
Long-term incentive arrangements
At the 2005 AGM, shareholders approved new long-term incentive
arrangements for executive directors and certain senior managers,
comprising new performance conditions under the Performance
Share Plan (PSP) and a new Co-investment Plan (CIP).
PSP
Up to 2004/05 the PSP was based wholly on the Company’s total
shareholder return (TSR) performance, being dividends paid (and
assumed to be reinvested) and change in share price, relative to a
group of 22 comparator companies.  As the number of quoted
utilities of a size comparable to the Company’s reduced significantly
over recent years it became increasingly difficult to maintain a
comparator group of companies of appropriate size and scope.  It
was also considered that, as the PSP was to be extended to certain
senior managers below Board level, it was appropriate to include an
element of performance which was more transparently within the
participants’ control and aligned to shareholders’ interests.
Under the new arrangements, 50% of a PSP award is based on the
average ROCE achieved by the Group and 50% is based on the
Company’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE
mid-250 Index (excluding investment trusts), both over a three year
performance period.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report 33
For achieving the threshold level of performance, under both the
ROCE and the TSR elements, 25% of the maximum award will vest.
Maximum awards for executive directors are for shares with a value
equal to one year’s salary at the date of the conditional award.  
The Committee has selected ROCE as it believes that this measure
captures both the Group’s business efficiency and its underlying
ability to provide returns to shareholders.  The Committee will review
the appropriate ROCE performance range to be set for each annual
grant of awards, taking account of the future plans and prospects of
the business.  Having considered these factors in respect of the
awards to be granted during the year 2006/07, the Committee
believes that an appropriate range for the three year performance
period from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009, is 14.2% to 14.9%.  At
the minimum level of ROCE the minimum number of shares will
vest; all of the shares will vest if the maximum ROCE is achieved
over the performance period; there will be a sliding scale of vesting
for performance between the minimum and maximum. 
The other 50% of a PSP award is based on the Company’s TSR
relative to the constituents of the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding
investment trusts) over a three year period.  The minimum level of
award will vest if the Company’s performance is at the median level,
all of the shares will vest if the upper quartile is achieved and there
will be a sliding scale of vesting if the Company’s TSR performance
is between the median and the upper quartile of companies within
that Index.
To ensure that the assessment of performance is independent,
remuneration consultants will report to the Committee as to whether
the TSR performance criteria have been met.  The Committee will
determine whether the ROCE performance criteria have been met
based on the Company’s audited accounts for the three year
performance period.
CIP
Under the CIP, executive directors and participating senior managers
invest in the Company’s shares (investment shares) up to a
maximum value equal to the greater of 20% of gross annual salary
or 100% of gross performance bonus received. 
Provided that investment shares are retained for three years, and
provided also that participants remain in employment, they are
eligible for a matching share award.  The minimum award is one
share for every two investment shares i.e. a 50% match.  The level
of match can increase by up to one further share for every one
investment share subject to the same performance conditions as
those applying under the PSP.  Therefore, if the maximum level of
ROCE was achieved and the Company’s relative TSR was at or above
the upper quartile, there would be a maximum award of three
shares for every two investment shares i.e. a 150% match; there is a
sliding scale of matching awards to the extent that actual ROCE and
TSR performance are between the minimum and maximum levels.
All-employee share schemes
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Company’s all-
employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
These schemes comprise the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP, under
which employees allocate part of their pre tax salary to purchase
shares and the Company awards free matching shares for every
share purchased up to a limit of £50 each month.  Both schemes
operate within specific tax legislation and, as is normal practice,
there are no performance conditions.
Pensions
Executive directors have a normal pension age of 60.  Patrick
Bourke, Patrick Haren and Harry McCracken participate in the
defined benefit section of VGPS (Focus).  Prior to 6 April 2006, the
pensionable earnings of Patrick Bourke and Patrick Haren were
capped by HMRC’s earnings cap and the pension benefits were
supplemented by the Complementary Pension Plan (CPP).  They are
expected to be affected by the individual lifetime allowance for tax
efficient benefit accrual under the Finance Act 2004 and the
Committee has decided to continue to make pension provision
within Focus supplemented by the CPP.  After 6 April 2006 a
notional earnings cap will apply to benefits from Focus and the CPP
will provide benefits for salary above the cap in the form of a
retirement lump sum, with that part of the lump sum attributable to
contributions made to the CPP prior to 6 April 2006 being paid tax-
free, as tax was settled at the date contributions were made.
Laurence MacKenzie participates in the defined contribution section
of VGPS (Options).  
Service contracts
Executive directors have service contracts dated 3 July 2003 (with
the exception of Laurence MacKenzie’s which is dated 2 March
2006), which expire at age 60 and are terminable on 12 months’
notice by the Company and six months’ notice by the director.  
Where the Company relieves the director of his duties before the end
of the notice period, the Company is required to continue to pay the
director’s salary and benefits (including pension) for the whole
period.  In the event of contract termination by the employer or the
director within 12 months of a change in control, the director will be
entitled to a compensation payment of 12 months’ basic salary and
benefits, bonus payments and employer’s pension contributions.
These arrangements exclude any awards that may become due
under the long-term incentive arrangements.  
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service
contracts, notice periods or entitlements to compensation on early
termination of their appointment.  They are appointed for fixed terms
of three years and will normally serve no more than three terms.
Their letters of appointment are available for inspection at the
registered office.  Their details as at 31 March 2006 are as follows:
Director Date of appointment Unexpired term
______________________________________________________________________________
J Biles 23 August 2005 29 months
D Lewis 1 February 2005
1
22 months
P Rogerson
2
1 July 2004
1
-
D Shah 1 May 2005
1
25 months
M Toms 1 November 2003 7 months
1
replaced an earlier letter of appointment
2
retired from the Board on 30 April 2005.
______________________________________________________________________________
John Biles and Laurence MacKenzie are subject to election at the
AGM on 7 July 2006, being the first AGM following their
appointment.  Harry McCracken will seek re-election at the AGM.
The Board of Directors section contains biographical details of each
director. Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
External appointments
The Company recognises the benefits of its directors accepting
appointments as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to accept one such appointment
and the director concerned may retain the fees.  Patrick Haren is a
non-executive director of the economic development agency, Invest
Northern Ireland, and received fees of £10,690 for the year ended
31 March 2006 (2005 - £10,690).
Chairman and non-executive directors 
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee.  The
remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the
Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association, with the
non-executive directors not participating in this process.  It takes the
form of a basic fee and an additional single fee for the Senior
Independent Director and for directors who chair Board committees.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for
pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the
Group’s bonus or incentive schemes.  
Performance Graph
The graph below compares the value of an investment of £100 in
the Company’s ordinary shares with an investment in the FTSE 350
Index (including investment trusts) over the five years starting 1 April
2001 assuming that all dividend income has been reinvested.  
The FTSE 350 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity
market index in which the Company is a constituent member.  
April
2001
April
2002
April
2003
April
2004
April
2005
April
2006
£60
£80
£100
£120
£140
£180
£200
Viridian Group PLC
FTSE 350 Index
£160
£220
Tables 1, 2, 3, 4a and 4b, and related footnotes, contain audited information.
Table 1: Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2006 was as follows:
Basic salary/fees Benefits in kind Performance bonus Other emoluments Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Non-Executive Chairman
P Rogerson 6.7 80.0 - -- - - - 6.7 80.0
D Shah 85.0 27.5 - -- - - - 85.0 27.5
Executive Directors
P Bourke 230.0 210.0 16.8 15.7 115.0 105.0 147.1 50.0 508.9 380.7
P Haren 350.0 315.0 19.8 18.5 175.0 157.5 230.5 88.3 775.3 579.3
L MacKenzie 15.3 - 0.9 - 5.1 - - - 21.3 -
H McCracken 230.0 210.0 22.6 21.9 115.0 105.0 - - 367.6 336.9
Non-Executive Directors
J Biles 19.5 - - - - - - - 19.5 -
D Lewis 32.5 27.5 - - - - - - 32.5 27.5
D Smyth - 25.2 - - - - - - - 25.2
M Toms 31.3 27.5 - - - - - - 31.3 27.5
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 1,000.3 922.7 60.1 56.1 410.1 367.5 377.6 138.3 1,848.1 1,484.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Philip Rogerson retired as non-executive Chairman on 30 April 2005.  Dipesh Shah was appointed Chairman on 1 May 2005.  John Biles was appointed as a non-executive
director on 23 August 2005.  Laurence MacKenzie was appointed as an executive director on 2 March 2006.  Desmond Smyth’s term of office ended on 28 February 2005.  
The benefits in kind for each executive director comprise the provision of a company car and fuel or equivalent cash-for-car allowance, private health insurance and the
value of matching shares provided by the Company under the SIP.  Other emoluments principally comprise a discretionary bonus in respect of the benefit in kind tax liability
arising from contributions to the CPP.  The increase in other emoluments in 2005/06 reflects a special contribution made to the CPP to fund a deficiency in respect of pre 
6 April 2006 benefits and to cover the cost of insuring death in service benefits in order to deal with the change in the tax regime for pension schemes under the Finance
Act 2004. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report 35
Table 2: Long-term Incentives
Directors’ interests in the PSP and CIP at 31 March 2006 were as follows:
Conditional Share Awards
As at Made Vested Lapsed As at Market price at Market price at 3 year
1 April 2005 during during during 31 March date of award date of vesting performance
(or subsequent year year year 2006 period starting
date of appointment)
Number Number Number Number Number Pence Pence
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
P Bourke
PSP
1
37,934 - 20,181 17,753 - 532.5 949.0 1 Jan 2003
PSP
1
37,069 - - - 37,069 566.5 - 1 Jan 2004
PSP
2
- 28,714 - - 28,714 801.0 - 1 April 2005
CIP
3
- 6,070 - - 6,070 801.0 - 1 April 2005
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 75,003 34,784 20,181 17,753 71,853
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
P Haren
PSP
1
56,338 - 29,972 26,366 - 532.5 949.0 1 Jan 2003
PSP
1
55,604 - - - 55,604 566.5 - 1 Jan 2004
PSP
2
- 43,695 - - 43,695 801.0 - 1 April 2005
CIP
3
- 29,883 - - 29,883 801.0 - 1 April 2005
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 111,942 73,578 29,972 26,366 129,182
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
L MacKenzie
PSP
2
16,749 - - - 16,749 801.0 - 1 April 2005
CIP
3
796 - - - 796 801.0 - 1 April 2005
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 17,545 - - - 17,545
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
H McCracken
PSP
1
37,934 - 20,181 17,753 - 532.5 949.0 1 Jan 2003
PSP
1
37,069 - - - 37,069 566.5 - 1 Jan 2004
PSP
2
- 28,714 - - 28,714 801.0 - 1 April 2005
CIP
3
- 18,973 - - 18,973 801.0 - 1 April 2005
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 75,003 47,687 20,181 17,753 84,756
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
1
Conditional share awards granted under the PSP during the financial years 2003/04 and 2004/05 were linked wholly to TSR.  Contingent share awards were based on the
market value of the Company’s shares at the date of award, with a maximum value of 100% of basic salary.  The shares will not normally be released to the participant until
the completion of the three year performance period.  Vesting of awards depends on the performance of the Company’s TSR compared to that of a group of utility and
industrial and service sector companies (the Comparator Group) over a three year performance period.  If during the three year performance period a Comparator Group
company is no longer appropriate (e.g. due to de-listing or takeover) to be included in the Comparator Group, the Committee has discretion to adjust the Comparator Group.
At the end of the performance period actual awards will be determined as follows.  No award will vest if TSR performance is below that of the median ranking company in
the Comparator Group.  If TSR performance is equal to that of the median ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will receive 50% of the award.  If TSR
performance is equal to or greater than that of the upper quartile ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will receive 100% of the award.  The proportion
of the award which the participant may receive for TSR ranking between the median and upper quartile of the Comparator Group will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
The Committee will satisfy itself that the recorded TSR, which is calculated by independent remuneration consultants, is consistent with the achievement of commensurate
underlying financial performance before any shares are received by participants. 
The Committee reviewed TSR performance for the three year performance period ended 31 December 2005 in relation to contingent share awards made in 2003.  The
Company’s TSR was higher than the median ranking TSR performance in the Comparator Group.  In accordance with the terms of the contingent share award the
Committee also considered the Company’s underlying financial performance over the performance period and was satisfied that no material discrepancy existed.  As a result,
53.2% of the 2003 contingent share awards were awarded to participants on 8 February 2006.  The Comparator Group companies for these contingent share awards were:
ARRIVA Kelda
Associated British Ports Mersey Docks
AWG National Express
BAA National Grid Transco
Bristol Water Pennon
Centrica Scottish and Southern Energy
East Surrey Scottish Power
FirstGroup Severn Trent
Forth Ports South Staffordshire
Go Ahead Group Stagecoach
International Power United Utilities Directors’ Remuneration Report 36
2
For conditional awards granted under the PSP in 2005/06, 50% of an award is based on the ROCE achieved by the Group, and 50% is based on the Company’s TSR
performance, both over a three year performance period.  Contingent share awards are based on the market value of the Company’s shares at the date of award, with a
maximum value of 100% of basic salary.  For achieving the threshold level of performance, under both the ROCE and the TSR elements, 25% of the maximum award will
vest.  At the minimum level of ROCE, 13.5%, the minimum number of shares will vest; all of the shares will vest if the maximum ROCE, 14.3%, is achieved over the
performance period; there will be a sliding scale of vesting for performance between the minimum and maximum.  For the other 50% of the award, based on the Company’s
TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding investment trusts), the minimum level of award will vest if the Company’s performance is at the
median level, all of the shares will vest if the upper quartile is achieved and there will be a sliding scale of vesting if the Company’s TSR performance is between the median
and the upper quartile of companies within that Index.  In order to ensure that the assessment of performance is independent, remuneration consultants will report to the
Committee as to whether the TSR performance criteria have been met.  The Committee will determine whether the ROCE performance criteria have been met based on the
Company’s audited accounts for the three year performance period.
3
For the conditional awards granted under the CIP in 2005/06 executive directors and participating senior managers invest in the Company’s shares (investment shares) up
to a maximum value equal to the greater of 20% of gross annual salary or 100% of gross performance bonus received.   Provided that investment shares are retained for a
further three years, and provided also that participants remain in employment, they are eligible for a matching share award (as disclosed in the table).  The minimum award
is one share for every two investment shares i.e. a 50% match.  The level of match can increase by up to one further share for every one investment share subject to the
same performance conditions as those applying under the PSP.  Therefore, if the maximum level of ROCE was achieved and the Company’s relative TSR was at or above the
upper quartile, there would be a maximum award of three shares for every two investment shares i.e. a 150% match; there will be a sliding scale of matching awards to the
extent that actual ROCE and TSR performance are between the minimum and maximum levels.
Table 3: Share Options
Directors’ interests in share options held under the all-employee Sharesave Scheme and Executive Share Option Scheme at 31 March 2006
were as follows:
As at Granted Exercised Lapsed As at Option Market price Normally exercisable/
1 April during during during 31 March Price at date of exercised
2005 year year year 2006 exercise
(or subsequent 
date of appointment)
Number Number Number Number Number Pence Pence
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
P Bourke
Sharesave 2,350 - 2,350 - - 402.0 956.0 1 February 2006
Sharesave - 1,347 - - 1,347 694.0 1 February 2009 - 31 July 2009
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 2,350 1,347 2,350 - 1,347
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
P Haren
Sharesave 2,350 - - - 2,350 402.0 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006
Sharesave - 1,347 - - 1,347 694.0 1 February 2009 - 31 July 2009
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 2,350 1,347 - - 3,697
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
L MacKenzie
Sharesave 1,347 - - - 1,347 694.0 1 February 2009 - 31 July 2009
Executive 9,200 - - - 9,200 534.5 22 May 2006 - 22 May 2013
Executive 16,739 - - - 16,739 573.5 25 May 2007 - 25 May 2014
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 27,286 - - - 27,286
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
H McCracken
Sharesave 2,350 - 2,350 - - 402.0 956.0 1 February 2006
Sharesave - 1,347 - - 1,347 694.0 1 February 2009 - 31 July 2009
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 2,350 1,347 2,350 - 1,347
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
No performance conditions attach to these options.  Executive directors have not been granted options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since 1993.  Laurence
MacKenzie was granted options under the Executive Share Option Scheme prior to becoming an executive director.  The aggregate notional gain on the exercise of share
options during the year (based on the difference between the mid-market price of a share on the day on which the options were exercised and the exercise price) was
£26,038 (2005 - £nil).  The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 March 2006 was 982.0 pence and the range during the year was 730.69 pence to
1,038.0 pence. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report 37
Pensions
Table 4a
Executive directors with Age at Increase in Increase in Total accrued pension
defined benefits 31 March accrued pension accrued pension at 31 March 2006
2006 (net of inflation) (including inflation)
£000 pa £000 pa £000 pa
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
P Bourke 49 10 11 43
P Haren 55 22 25 140
H McCracken 56 10 13 153
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The pension figures in the above table include, in the case of Patrick Bourke and Patrick Haren, the target accrued pensions under the CPP.  At 31 March 2006 £23,198 p.a.
of Patrick Bourke’s pension relates to the CPP and, assuming a marginal tax rate of 40%, would be paid in the form of a net of tax lump sum at retirement of £235,798 (2005
- £167,624).  At 31 March 2006 £90,843 p.a. of Patrick Haren’s pension relates to the CPP and, assuming a marginal tax rate of 40%, this would be paid in the form of a net
of tax lump sum at retirement of £1,118,786 (2005 - £878,225). 
Table 4b
Executive directors with Directors’ Transfer value of accrued Increase in transfer value Transfer value of
defined benefits contributions for pension at 1 April 2005 over year less directors’ accrued pension at
the year contributions 31 March 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
P Bourke 14 325 201 540
P Haren 16 1,625 553 2,194
H McCracken - 2,310 572 2,882
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Transfer values represent a liability in respect of directors’ pensions entitlement, not an amount paid or due to the individual.
Following the 1997 and 2000 actuarial valuations of VGPS, part of the designated surplus was set aside for distribution to Focus members.  On retirement these funds would
be used to provide benefits in addition to those ordinarily provided by VGPS.  The final payment into these funds was made in May 2003.  As Focus members, three of the
executive directors have designated funds allocated to them by the VGPS trustees for their benefit.  The values of these amounts as at 31 March 2006 were: Patrick Bourke
£23,711, Patrick Haren £33,769 and Harry McCracken £59,866.  These amounts are not included in the accrued benefits and transfer values quoted above.  
For Patrick Bourke, Patrick Haren and Harry McCracken target pension benefits are based on 1/30 of final salary for each year of pensionable service after 1 April 1998,
1/45 of final salary for service between 1 April 1994 (31 March 1992 for Patrick Haren) and 1 April 1998 and 1/60 of final salary for service prior to 1 April 1994, with
aggregate benefits subject to a maximum pension of 2/3 of final salary less retained benefits from previous UK employments.  Harry McCracken reached this maximum limit
in August 2003 and pensionable service accrual and member contributions ceased from that date.  His benefits have been registered with HMRC for enhanced protection
under the Finance Act 2004.  Pension increases are in line with inflation, with increases above 5% at the Company’s discretion.
If a director takes early retirement without Board consent a pension with actuarial reduction would be payable from age 50.  A pension on ill-health retirement would be
based on potential service to normal pension age.  In the event of a change in control of the Company resulting in early retirement, there would be no actuarial reduction for
early payment of pension over the age of 50.  If the executive dies whilst in service, a lump sum of four times final salary and a contingent spouse’s pension of 2/3 of the
director’s pension (based on service to normal pension age) would be payable. 
In respect of Laurence MacKenzie, a member of Options, the Company pays contributions of 25% of basic salary (2005/06: £3,831 from 2 March 2006 on his appointment
as an executive director).  The Company also provides for death in service benefits (lump sum of four times salary and a spouse’s pension of 1/3 of salary) and an ill health
retirement pension (50% of salary) through Options. Directors’ Remuneration Report 38
Directors’ Share Interests
The directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
(which includes those of their families) are shown below:  
31 March 31 March
2006 2005 
(or subsequent date 
of appointment)
Number Number
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
J Biles - -
P Bourke 31,874 14,828
P Haren 69,222 68,132
D Lewis - -
L MacKenzie 3,370 3,352
H McCracken 50,958 42,825
D Shah - -
M Toms 1,800 2,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The beneficial interests include ordinary shares purchased under the monthly
operation of the SIP.  Since 1 April 2006, Patrick Bourke, Patrick Haren, Laurence
MacKenzie and Harry McCracken have each acquired 38 ordinary shares through
the SIP. 
As at 31 March 2006 150,681 ordinary shares (2005 - 12,469 ordinary shares)
were held by Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited for the purposes of the SIP.  As with
other employees, the executive directors are deemed to have a potential interest in
those shares, being beneficiaries under the trust. 
By order of the Board 
Ian Thom
Company Secretary
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Directors’ Report 39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors of Viridian Group PLC present their report and the
Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Results and Dividends
The results for the year ended 31 March 2006 show a profit after tax
of £204.4m.  An interim dividend of 10.28p per share was paid on
31 March 2006.  The directors recommend payment of a final
dividend of 26.61p per share resulting in total dividends for the year
of 36.89p per share.
Principal Activities and Review 
of Business Developments
The Group’s regulated energy activities of power procurement,
transmission and distribution, transmission system operation and
supply of electricity are carried out through its subsidiaries, NIE and
SONI.  The Group’s unregulated energy activities are carried out
through its subsidiary VP&E which comprises Energia - competitive
market supply, and Huntstown - power generation.  The Group also
provides specialist power utility contracting services through
unregulated subsidiaries trading as Powerteam.
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of its software
and IT services business, Sx3, to Northgate for £155m. The disposal
resulted in a profit of £108.9m.
Reviews of the Group's activities and potential future developments
are provided in the Chairman's Statement, the Group Chief
Executive's Review, and the Operating and Financial Review.
Discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
are described in the Risk Management section of the Corporate
Governance Report.  The Group’s financial risk management
objectives and policies, including those applied in relation to the use
of financial instruments, are described in the Financial Review.
Share Capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital are given in note
29 to the accounts.  In August 2005 the Group effected a £97.9m
return of capital to shareholders through a B share scheme with
most shareholders electing for immediate payment (£97.1m) and
the remainder opting for a deferred payment in April 2006 (£0.8m).
The return of capital was accompanied by a 9 for 10 share 
capital consolidation.
Directors
The Board of Directors section gives details of current directors. 
All of the directors held office throughout the period with the
exception of John Biles, who was appointed as a non-executive
director on 23 August 2005, and Laurence MacKenzie, who was
appointed as an executive director on 2 March 2006.  John Biles
and Laurence MacKenzie will seek election, and Harry McCracken
will seek re-election, at this year’s AGM. 
The directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
(which include those of their families and those held by the trustees
of the SIP), together with details in respect of share awards under
the PSP, CIP and options to acquire ordinary shares under the
Sharesave Scheme and the Executive Share Option Scheme, are
shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Company purchased and maintained directors’ and officers’
liability insurance throughout the period.
Research and Development
The Group is committed to a programme of research and
development appropriate to its businesses.  In particular NIE, in
conjunction with local universities and other partners, is committed
to research and development activities aimed at identifying the best
long-term options for network development to accommodate the
Government’s sustainability objectives.  
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 12 May 2006 the Group had been notified of the following
substantial shareholdings:
Number %
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Standard Life Investments 5,102,565 4.17
Legal & General Group Plc 3,959,167 3.23
Aviva plc 3,701,793 3.02
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Directors’ Report 40
Equal Opportunities
The Group has been pro-active in compliance with fair employment,
sex discrimination, equal pay, disability discrimination and race
discrimination legislation in Northern Ireland.  It regularly monitors
its actions to promote compliance and to ensure that it provides
equality of opportunity in all its employment practices.
Disability
The Group has taken active steps to implement the Disability
Discrimination Act.  It is Group policy to provide people with
disabilities equal opportunities for employment, training and career
development, having regard to aptitude and ability.  Any member of
staff who becomes disabled during employment is given assistance
and re-training where possible.
Employee Participation
The Group recognises the value of effective communication with
employees.  There are well-established arrangements for
consultation and the promotion of employee relations through a
framework of company councils.  A number of Group-wide
consultative committees are also in place dealing with areas such as
health and safety and current ideas. NIE and Powerteam have
achieved IIP accreditation.
Health and Safety at Work of Employees
The Group strives for continual improvement in safety performance
through review of safe working practices and increased safety
awareness of all employees.  Details of lost time incidents are
contained in the Workplace section of the CSR Report.
Charitable and Political Donations
The Group’s wide-ranging sponsorship activities are described in the
Community section of the CSR Report.  Apart from sponsorship,
donations to charities in the year were £49,726 (2005 - £11,000).
There were no contributions for political purposes.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as external auditors
and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be
proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting
Full details of the AGM to be held on 7 July 2006 and explanations
of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting appear in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed separately with 
this report.
Payment of Suppliers
The Group’s procurement policy is to source equipment, goods and
services from a wide range of suppliers throughout the EU and
beyond in accordance with commercial practices based on fairness
and transparency.  The Group recognises the important role that
suppliers play in its business, and works to ensure that payments
are made to them in accordance with agreed contractual terms.
Going Concern
Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future.  For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board
Ian Thom
Company Secretary
Registered Office
120 Malone Road
Belfast BT9 5HT
Registered Number: NI33250
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts 41
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT 
OF THE ACCOUNTS
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and
accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
those IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial
year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and
of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the
Company and the Group for that period.  In preparing those
accounts, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance of the Company and the Group, and disclose and
explain any departure from IFRS where, in their view,
compliance would be so misleading as to conflict with a fair
presentation; and
• state that (except for any such departure) the accounts have
been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and the Company to enable them to ensure
that the accounts comply with the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards
(IAS) Regulation.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. Independent Auditors’ Report 42
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE
MEMBERS OF VIRIDIAN GROUP PLC
We have audited the Group and Company financial statements (the
financial statements) of Viridian Group PLC for the year ended 31
March 2006 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group
and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense,
Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group and Company Cash
Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 34.  These financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set
out therein.  We have also audited the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body in
accordance with Article 243 of the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company’s members as a
body for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective Responsibilities of 
Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted
by the European Union (EU) as set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (ISA) (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view, the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards
(IAS) Regulation and the information given in the Directors’ Report is
consistent with the financial statements.  The information given in
the Directors’ Report includes that specific information provided in
the Key Performance Indicators and Business Reviews sections of
the Operating Review and in the Financial Review together with the
discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
as described in the Risk Management section of the Corporate
Governance Report, that are cross referred from the Principal
Activities and Review of Business Developments section of the
Directors’ Report.  
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.  We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its
risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements.  This other information comprises only the Group
Financial Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement, the Group Chief
Executive’s Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the
Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report, the Directors’ Report and the Notice of
Annual General Meeting.  We consider the implications for our report
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements.  Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISA (UK and Ireland)
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.  An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.  It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by
the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its profit for the year
then ended;
• the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU as applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies (Northern
Ireland) Order 1986, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
31 March 2006;
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with
the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditors
Belfast
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Group Income Statement and Statements of Recognised Income and Expense 43
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2006
Note 2006 2005
£m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3, 5 976.8 835.4
Operating costs 5 (827.8) (732.1)
__________ __________
OPERATING PROFIT 149.0 103.3
Interest receivable 10.4 3.9
Finance costs (29.7) (30.9)
Net finance costs 7 (19.3) (27.0)
__________ __________
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX CHARGE 129.7 76.3
Tax charge 8 (36.2) (15.3)
__________ __________
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AFTER TAX CHARGE 93.5 61.0
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 4 110.9 9.9
__________ __________
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE EQUITY 
HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY 204.4 70.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
EARNINGS PER SHARE Pence Pence
From continuing operations
-  basic 10 74.4 45.7
-  diluted 10 73.9 45.4
From discontinued operations
-  basic 10 88.3 7.4
-  diluted 10 87.6 7.4
From continuing and discontinued operations
-  basic 10 162.7 53.1
-  diluted 10 161.5 52.8
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 March 2006
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Exchange difference on retranslation of foreign subsidiaries 0.6 0.2 - -
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 22.5 0.5 (0.8) (0.3)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension scheme assets and liabilities 31.5 (1.0) - -
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on items taken directly to equity (12.1) 0.3 0.2 -
__________ __________ __________ __________
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 42.5 - (0.6) (0.3)
Transfers
Transferred (gains)/losses from equity to income statement 
on cash flow hedges (14.3) 1.5 0.3 0.2
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on items transferred from equity 1.7 (0.2) - -
Profit for the financial year 204.4 70.9 163.8 30.6
__________ __________ __________ __________
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable 
to the equity holders of the parent company 234.3 72.2 163.5 30.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ Balance Sheets 44
Balance Sheets
As at 31 March 2006
Group Company
Note 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,009.5 961.7 - -
Intangible assets 13 14.9 11.5 - -
Investment in subsidiaries 14 - - 697.0 697.0
Financial assets:
Derivative financial assets 21 - 1.4 - -
Other financial assets 15 1.0 11.3 - -
Deferred tax assets 8 57.3 70.5 0.4 0.2
__________ __________ __________ __________
1,082.7 1,056.4 697.4 697.2
__________ __________ __________ __________
Current assets
Inventories 16 7.6 7.0 - -
Trade and other receivables 17 152.7 129.7 2.3 1.9
Financial assets:
Derivative financial assets 21 11.0 5.8 - -
Other financial assets 15 0.1 1.2 84.4 78.3
Cash and cash equivalents 18 147.6 79.1 85.7 59.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
319.0 222.8 172.4 139.7
Assets held for sale and included in disposal groups 4 - 114.7 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
319.0 337.5 172.4 139.7
__________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL ASSETS 1,401.7 1,393.9 869.8 836.9
__________ __________ __________ __________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 180.6 151.7 2.1 2.0
Current tax payable 34.6 26.2 3.0 2.2
Deferred income 26 5.6 6.6 - -
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities 21 3.7 5.2 0.3 0.2
Other financial liabilities 20 13.6 12.8 149.4 164.2
Short-term provisions 25 16.2 8.7 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
254.3 211.2 154.8 168.6
Liabilities included in disposal groups 4 - 82.3 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
254.3 293.5 154.8 168.6
__________ __________ __________ __________
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 8 151.4 150.4 - -
Deferred income 26 164.2 151.8 - -
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities 21 9.9 12.9 1.0 0.6
Other financial liabilities 20 444.0 437.0 57.1 39.1
Long-term provisions 25 22.5 33.5 - -
Pension liability 32 102.9 161.1 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
894.9 946.7 58.1 39.7
__________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,149.2 1,240.2 212.9 208.3
__________ __________ __________ __________
NET ASSETS 252.5 153.7 656.9 628.6
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Equity
Share capital 29 34.0 33.4 34.0 33.4
Share premium 30 9.1 13.2 9.1 13.2
Merger reserve 30 - - 358.0 442.9
Capital redemption reserve 30 97.1 - 97.1 -
Hedge reserve 30 (2.2) (9.4) (0.9) (0.6)
Foreign currency translation reserve 30 0.8 0.2 - -
Accumulated profits 30 113.7 116.3 159.6 139.7
__________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL EQUITY 252.5 153.7 656.9 628.6
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
The accounts were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 May 2006. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Dipesh Shah Patrick Bourke
Chairman Group Finance Director Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Cash Flow Statements 45
Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2006
Group Company
Note 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 23 165.2 193.8 (0.1) 1.1
Interest received 10.0 3.8 10.0 5.7
Interest paid (26.4) (27.2) (10.5) (6.3)
Preference dividend received from subsidiary - - - 1.1
Current taxes (paid)/received (25.4) (18.6) 0.9 (0.5)
__________ __________ __________ __________
Net cash flows from operating activities 123.4 151.8 0.3 1.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (90.1) (93.1) - -
Purchase of intangible assets (4.6) (6.3) - -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.7 - -
Contributions in respect of property, plant and equipment 17.1 15.6 - -
Dividends received from subsidiaries - - 164.0 28.8
Receipt of deferred consideration 11.9 1.7 - -
(Payment)/repayment of loans made - - (6.1) 19.4
Net proceeds from disposal of subsidiary 4 133.5 - - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities 67.9 (81.4) 157.9 48.2
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 9.5 3.3 9.5 3.3
Proceeds from borrowings 24.4 52.2 24.4 58.1
Repayment of borrowings (19.9) (51.3) (22.0) (41.8)
Payments in respect of Redeemable B shares (97.1) - (97.1) -
Expenses associated with return of capital (0.2) - (0.2) -
Equity dividends paid (46.6) (45.5) (46.6) (45.5)
__________ __________ __________ __________
Net cash flows used in financing activities (129.9) (41.3) (132.0) (25.9)
__________ __________ __________ __________
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 61.4 29.1 26.2 23.4
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 86.6 58.1 59.5 36.1
Effects of foreign exchange (0.4) (0.6) - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 147.6 86.6 85.7 59.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash and cash equivalents relating to continuing operations 147.6 79.1 85.7 59.5
Cash and cash equivalents relating to discontinued operations - 7.5 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
147.6 86.6 85.7 59.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ Notes to the Accounts 46
1. General Information
Viridian Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in Northern Ireland.
The accounts are presented in Sterling (£) with all values rounded to the nearest £100,000 except where otherwise indicated. 
At the date of authorisation of these accounts, the following standards, which have not been applied in these accounts, were in issue but not yet
effective:
IAS 1 Amendment - Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 - Financial Guarantee Contracts
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 - Day 1 Profits
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 - Fair Value Option
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 - Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intra Group Transactions
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Group’s accounts in the period of initial
application.
2. Accounting Policies
Basis of preparation
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group and Company prepared their annual report and accounts in accordance
with UK GAAP.  For the year ended 31 March 2006, the accounts have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986. 
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 34.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
Basis of consolidation
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of Viridian Group PLC (the Company) and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control
is transferred out of the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of a subsidiary at the
date of acquisition.  Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment annually.  Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable
amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates.  Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying
amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.  Goodwill is stated at cost less any
impairment in value.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
The Group has adopted the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 from restating business combinations which occurred before the transition date (1 April
2004).  Goodwill in respect of acquisitions prior to the transition date has been retained at the previous UK GAAP balance subject to being tested for
impairment at that date.
Foreign currency translation
The functional and presentation currency of the Company is Sterling (£).  The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the Euro (€).
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.  Foreign
exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date are recognised in the income statement.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance
sheet date and their income statements are translated at the average rates of exchange for the period.  Exchange differences arising are classified as
equity and transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve.  When a foreign entity is sold, such translation differences are recognised in
the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.  
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are
recorded at the closing rate of exchange at each balance sheet date.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 31 MARCH 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 47
2. Accounting Policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.  The
cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overheads.  
Freehold land is not depreciated.  Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less
estimated residual values, over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: 
Infrastructure and generation assets - up to 40 years
Non-operational buildings - freehold and long leasehold - up to 50 years
Fixtures and equipment - up to 25 years
Vehicles and mobile plant - up to 5 years
From 1 April 2005, the method of depreciation for infrastructure assets was changed from 3% for the first 20 years followed by 2% for the remaining
20 years to a straight-line basis, namely 2.5% over 40 years.  The revised basis is consistent with the policy adopted by the majority of UK DNOs and
is considered to be more reflective of the consumption of the economic benefits of the infrastructure assets.  In accordance with IAS 8 Presentation of
Financial Statements and Accounting Policies this change in method of depreciation is being accounted for prospectively and has resulted in a
reduction in the depreciation charge for the year ended 31 March 2006 of £4.5m from what it would otherwise have been.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying
values may not be recoverable.  Where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable
amount.  
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.  In assessing value in use, estimated
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.  For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined
for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.  Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the
continued use of the asset.  The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net selling
price and the carrying amount of the asset.
Intangible assets
Software costs
The costs of acquiring computer software are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the software
which is between three and ten years.  Costs include direct labour relating to software development and an appropriate portion of directly attributable
overheads.
Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.  An asset is recognised when all the following
conditions are met:
• an asset is created that can be identified;
• it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Any expenditure recognised as an asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life.  The carrying value of the asset is
reviewed for impairment annually when the asset is not yet in use and subsequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net selling price and the carrying amount
of the asset.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of average purchase price and net realisable value. Notes to the Accounts 48
2. Accounting Policies (continued)
Financial instruments 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits and short-term managed funds with maturity of three months or
less.
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at cost, being the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.  Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the
effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they
arise.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.  Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as
being remote.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swap contracts and commodity contracts to hedge the risks of changes in foreign currency
exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.  Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.  
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are designated as effective hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in
equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.  If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast
transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the
derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.  For hedges that do not result in
the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item
affects net income or expense.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as 
they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.  If a
hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in these accounts.
Exceptional items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature
and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of
financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payments
The Group has a number of all-employee and discretionary employee share schemes under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments to
eligible employees.  
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.  The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.  Fair value is estimated using appropriate
models for the particular awards under consideration.  
As allowed under its transitional provisions, IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November
2002 which were unvested on 1 January 2005.
Operating lease contracts
Leases are classified as operating lease contracts whenever the terms of the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership to
the lessee. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease in
these accounts. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 49
2. Accounting Policies (continued)
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in
the normal course of business, exclusive of value added tax and other sales related taxes.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Energy supply
Revenue is recognised on the basis of energy supplied during the period.  Revenue for energy supply includes an assessment of energy supplied to
customers between the date of the last meter reading and the balance sheet date, estimated using historical consumption patterns.
Long-term contract accounting
Profit on long-term contracts is taken as the work is carried out if the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.  The profit included is
calculated on a prudent basis to reflect the proportion of the work carried out at the period end, by recording revenue and related costs as contract
activity progresses.  Revenue is calculated as that proportion of total contract value which costs incurred to date bear to total expected costs for that
contract.  Revenues derived from variations on contracts are recognised only when they have been accepted by the customer.  Full provision is made for
losses on all contracts in the year in which they are first foreseen.
Support and maintenance revenue
Support and maintenance revenue invoiced in advance is deferred and released to the income statement over the term of the support and maintenance
period.
Interest receivable
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Capitalised interest
Interest on funding attributable to significant capital projects is capitalised during the period of construction and written off as part of the total cost over
the estimated useful economic life of the asset.  All other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement as it arises.
Government grants and customer contributions
Government grants and customer contributions received in respect of property, plant and equipment are deferred and released to the income statement
by instalments over the estimated useful economic lives of the related assets.  Grants received in respect of expenditure charged to the income
statement during the year are included in the income statement.
Tax
The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.  Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it
excludes both items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years as well as items that are never taxable or deductible.  The
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.  Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is
settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Dividends
Dividends are recorded in the Group’s accounts in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders.  Interim dividends are
recorded in the period in which they are paid. Notes to the Accounts 50
2. Accounting Policies (continued)
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when (i) the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event (ii) it is probable that an outflow
of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.  Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the
reimbursement is virtually certain.  If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future
cash flows at a pre tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is included within finance costs.  
Emission allowances
The Group recognises liabilities in respect of its obligations to deliver emission allowances to the extent that the allowances to be delivered exceed those
previously acquired by the Group, either by allocation from governments or a similar body or through purchase.  Any liabilities recognised are measured
based on the current estimates of the amounts that will be required to satisfy the net obligation.
Decommissioning
Provision is made for estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the estimated useful economic lives of the Group’s generation assets on a
discounted basis based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.  Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates are
dealt with prospectively. Capitalised decommissioning costs are depreciated over the estimated useful economic lives of the related assets.  The
unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements.  The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of
liabilities represents the present value of the obligations offset by the fair value of assets.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to
the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.  Full actuarial valuations are obtained at
least triennially and updated at each balance sheet date.  Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are
recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense. 
Pension costs in respect of defined contribution arrangements are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
The expected return on pension scheme assets and the interest on pension scheme liabilities are included within finance costs.
The Group has adopted the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses at the transition date in reserves.  The
Group has also adopted IAS 19 Amendment - Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures.
Company’s investments in subsidiaries
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost.  Income is recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions received
from post-acquisition profits.  Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of investment. 3. Business and Geographical Information
The Group’s operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the goods and services provided as described in
note 14.  Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
(i) Revenue and profit 
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
External Internal Total External Internal Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 
NIE 569.5 123.7 693.2 529.5 76.9 606.4
Powerteam 22.9 46.0 68.9 28.5 41.8 70.3
VP&E 380.2 0.9 381.1 271.5 0.8 272.3
Other 4.2 - 4.2 5.9 0.2 6.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
976.8 170.6 1,147.4 835.4 119.7 955.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
Inter-group elimination (170.6) (119.7)
__________ __________
976.8 835.4
__________ __________
Operating profit
NIE 117.6 73.0
Powerteam 4.6 3.8
VP&E 24.1 25.0
Other 3.9 2.5
__________ __________
150.2 104.3
Inter-group elimination (1.2) (1.0)
__________ __________
Group operating profit 149.0 103.3
Interest receivable 10.4 3.9
Finance costs (29.7) (30.9)
Net finance costs (19.3) (27.0)
__________ __________
Profit from continuing operations before tax charge 129.7 76.3
Tax charge (36.2) (15.3)
__________ __________
Profit from continuing operations after tax charge 93.5 61.0
Discontinued operations
Sx3 109.1 9.9
Release of provision in respect of prior year disposals 1.8 -
__________ __________
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 110.9 9.9
__________ __________
Profit for the year 204.4 70.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
In addition to the disclosures given above, the directors believe the following breakdown of NIE’s business according to regulated entitlement is useful to
shareholders:
Revenue Operating profit
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Based on regulated entitlement:
Power Procurement/SONI 485.2 436.3 9.8 7.2
Transmission and Distribution 163.8 162.9 83.2 73.9
NIE Supply 432.5 424.9 7.4 6.8
Other 1.3 0.6 0.6 0.9
Inter-group elimination (406.2) (402.5) - -
_______________________ _______________________
676.6 622.2 101.0 88.8
Adjustment for over/(under)-recovery 16.6 (15.8) 16.6 (15.8)
_______________________ _______________________
693.2 606.4 117.6 73.0
_______________________ _______________________
_______________________ _______________________
The adjustment for over/(under)-recovery represents the amount by which NIE over/(under)-recovered against its regulated entitlement.
Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 51 Notes to the Accounts 52
3. Business and Geographical Information (continued)
(ii) Discontinued operations - Sx3
On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of Sx3. The results of Sx3 are disclosed within discontinued operations as follows:
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
External Internal Total External Internal Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 6.7 1.4 8.1 106.8 20.7 127.5
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Profit after tax for the year 0.2 9.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
The revenue and assets of the discontinued operations (based on geographical location of customers for external revenue and geographical location of
assets for segment assets and capital additions) are primarily based in the UK.
(iii) Balance sheet
Operating assets and liabilities are analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating assets
Continuing operations
NIE 947.9 899.5
Powerteam 17.6 15.2
VP&E 246.7 218.3
Other 0.7 4.2
Discontinued operations
Sx3 - 74.1
Consolidation adjustments
Inter-group elimination (6.2) (5.0)
Inter-business assets (23.4) (25.9)
__________ __________
1,183.3 1,180.4
Unallocated assets 218.4 213.5
__________ __________
Total assets 1,401.7 1,393.9
__________ __________
Operating liabilities
Continuing operations
NIE 334.9 306.3
Powerteam 7.8 7.9
VP&E 63.4 47.3
Other 6.4 15.7
Discontinued operations
Sx3 - 68.9
Consolidation adjustment
Inter-business liabilities (23.4) (25.9)
__________ __________
389.1 420.2
Unallocated liabilities 760.1 820.0
__________ __________
Total liabilities 1,149.2 1,240.2
__________ __________
Net assets 252.5 153.7
__________ __________
__________ __________
Unallocated assets include goodwill, deferred tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and financial assets.
Unallocated liabilities include deferred tax liabilities, current tax payable, financial liabilities and pension liability. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 53
3. Business and Geographical Information (continued)
(iv) Other information
2006 2005
£m £m
Capital additions
Continuing operations
NIE 76.0 74.9
Powerteam 0.9 0.8
VP&E 18.2 7.0
Inter-group elimination (1.3) (1.1)
Discontinued operations
Sx3 - 9.3
Release of unrealised profits 1.1 -
__________ __________
94.9 90.9
__________ __________
Depreciation and amortisation
Continuing operations
NIE 34.6 39.1
Powerteam 0.7 0.6
VP&E 9.8 9.1
Other 0.5 0.5
Inter-group elimination (0.1) (0.1)
Discontinued operations
Sx3 - 14.1
Release of unrealised profits 0.1 -
__________ __________
45.6 63.3
__________ __________
Increase in provisions
Continuing operations
NIE 2.4 13.7
Powerteam 0.2 0.2
VP&E - 0.5
Other 0.3 0.5
Discontinued operations
Sx3 - 0.4
__________ __________
2.9 15.3
__________ __________
(v) Geographical information - continuing operations
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue and assets by geographical segment based on the location of customers for external
revenue and the location of assets for segment assets and capital additions. 
UK RoI Total UK RoI Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
NIE 539.9 29.6 569.5 508.4 21.1 529.5
Powerteam 5.1 17.8 22.9 5.6 22.9 28.5
VP&E 105.9 274.3 380.2 93.0 178.5 271.5
Other 4.2 - 4.2 5.9 - 5.9
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
655.1 321.7 976.8 612.9 222.5 835.4
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Capital additions 81.0 13.9 94.9 85.0 5.9 90.9
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Total Total
2006 2005
£m £m
Segment assets
UK 950.5 970.9
RoI 237.9 212.3
Inter-segment assets (5.1) (2.8)
__________ __________
1,183.3 1,180.4
__________ __________
Unallocated assets 218.4 213.5
__________ __________
Total assets 1,401.7 1,393.9
__________ __________
__________ __________ Notes to the Accounts 54
4. Discontinued Operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations comprises:
Note 2006 2005
£m £m
Profit from Sx3 (i) 109.1 9.9
Release of provision in respect of prior year disposals (ii) 1.8 -
__________ __________
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 110.9 9.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
(i) Profit from Sx3
The results of Sx3 for the period until disposal on 25 April 2005 are included as discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue 6.7 106.8
Operating costs (6.4) (92.6)
__________ __________
Operating profit 0.3 14.2
Interest receivable - 0.2
Finance charges - (0.3)
__________ __________
Profit before tax charge 0.3 14.1
Current tax charge (0.1) (4.8)
Deferred tax charge - 0.6
Total tax charge (0.1) (4.2)
__________ __________
Profit after tax charge 0.2 9.9
Profit on disposal of Sx3 108.9 -
__________ __________
Profit from Sx3 109.1 9.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
The cash flows of Sx3 which have been included in the Group Cash Flow Statement are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash flows from operating cash flows 0.5 31.8
Net cash flows used in investing activities (0.2) (13.2)
Net cash flows (used in)/provided by financing activities (0.1) 3.5
__________ __________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 55
4. Discontinued Operations (continued)
The disposal of Sx3 results in a book gain of £108.9m, being the disposal proceeds less the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets, attributable
goodwill and costs of disposal.  The tax effect in the Group Income Statement relating to the profit on disposal is £nil.
As at
25 April 2005
£m
Disposal proceeds 155.0
_________________
Less net assets sold:
Intangible assets - goodwill 32.4
Intangible assets - software development costs 2.7
Property, plant and equipment 28.2
Deferred tax asset 2.9
Inventory 3.2
Trade and other receivables 33.6
Cash and cash equivalents 17.2
Trade and other payables (37.4)
Current tax payable (1.6)
Loans (3.3)
Provisions (0.5)
Deferred income - support & maintenance contracts (28.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.7)
Pension liability (6.8)
_________________
Net assets sold 41.8
_________________
Costs of disposal 4.3
_________________
Profit on disposal of Sx3 108.9
_________________
_________________
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Cash consideration 155.0
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of (17.2)
Costs of disposal (4.3)
_________________
133.5
_________________
_________________
At 31 March 2005, Sx3 was classified as a disposal group held for sale and presented separately in the balance sheet.  The major classes of assets
and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale were as follows:
2005
£m
Intangible assets - goodwill 32.3
Intangible assets - software development costs 2.9
Property, plant and equipment 29.8
Deferred tax asset 3.0
Inventory 2.8
Trade and other receivables 36.4
Cash and cash equivalents 7.5
_________________
Total assets classified as held for sale 114.7
_________________
_________________
Trade and other payables 39.1
Current tax payable 2.8
Loans 3.5
Provisions 0.5
Deferred income - support & maintenance contracts 28.2
Deferred tax liabilities 0.7
Pension liability 7.5
_________________
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 82.3
_________________
_________________
(ii) Release of provision in respect of prior year disposals
Profit for the year from discontinued operations includes the release of a provision in respect of deferred consideration from previous disposals which
was received during the year. Notes to the Accounts 56
5. Revenue and Operating Costs
An analysis of external revenue is as follows:
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Energy business
-   regulated 569.5 - 569.5 529.5 - 529.5
-   unregulated 380.2 - 380.2 271.5 - 271.5
Contracting services 22.9 - 22.9 28.5 - 28.5
Software and IT services - 6.7 6.7 - 106.8 106.8
Other 4.2 - 4.2 5.9 - 5.9
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
Revenue 976.8 6.7 983.5 835.4 106.8 942.2
Interest receivable 10.4 - 10.4 3.9 0.2 4.1
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
987.2 6.7 993.9 839.3 107.0 946.3
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
Operating costs are analysed as follows:
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Energy costs 660.3 - 660.3 547.9 - 547.9
Employee costs (note 6) 41.8 2.9 44.7 42.7 41.5 84.2
Depreciation and amortisation 39.9 - 39.9 42.6 14.2 56.8
Other operating charges 85.8 3.5 89.3 98.9 36.9 135.8
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
827.8 6.4 834.2 732.1 92.6 824.7
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
Operating costs include:
2006 2005
£m £m
Depreciation charge on property, plant and equipment 44.0 59.2
Associated release of customers’ contributions and grants (5.7) (6.5)
__________ __________
38.3 52.7
Amortisation of intangibles 1.6 4.1
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense
including £0.2m write-down in 2005 of inventories to net realisable value 1.4 1.8
Net foreign currency differences 2.5 -
Minimum lease payments due under operating leases:
-   Plant and equipment 2.3 3.3
-   Land and buildings 0.4 1.8
-   PPAs 129.5 141.1
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of services to the Group
-   Audit services   -   statutory audit 0.2 0.2
-   IFRS transition 0.1 0.1
-   Non-audit services   -   tax advice 0.1 0.1
__________ __________
__________ __________
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of audit services to the Company amounted to £75,000 (2005 - £68,000).
In addition, auditors' remuneration for non-audit services (tax and other advice) in respect of the disposal of Sx3 amounted to £0.1m (2005 - £nil). Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 57
6. Employees
Employee costs
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Salaries 51.5 2.4 53.9 48.5 34.3 82.8
Social security costs 5.4 0.3 5.7 4.7 3.8 8.5
Pension costs
-   defined contribution plans 0.8 0.1 0.9 0.7 1.8 2.5
-   defined benefit plans 9.0 0.1 9.1 9.6 1.5 11.1
Share-based payments - equity-settled 1.3 - 1.3 0.5 0.1 0.6
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
68.0 2.9 70.9 64.0 41.5 105.5
Less: charged to the balance sheet (26.2) - (26.2) (21.3) - (21.3)
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
Charged to the income statement 41.8 2.9 44.7 42.7 41.5 84.2
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
_________________________________________________ _________________________________________________
Details of the remuneration, pension entitlements, PSP awards, CIP awards and share options for each director are included in the Directors’
Remuneration Report and note 33.
Employee numbers
Average number Actual headcount
during the year at 31 March
2006 2005 2006 2005
Number Number Number Number
NIE 351 343 362 347
Powerteam 1,044 1,030 1,021 1,005
VP&E 106 86 116 94
Other 4 4 4 4
Discontinued - Sx3 - 1,093 - 1,095
__________ __________ __________ __________
1,505 2,556 1,503 2,545
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
7. Net Finance Costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest receivable:
Bank interest 7.9 3.5
Loan note interest 0.9 0.4
Release of provision held against interest receivable on deferred consideration 1.6 -
__________ __________
10.4 3.9
__________ __________
Interest payable:
Bank loans and overdrafts (10.0) (10.1)
Interest rate swaps (4.5) (4.8)
Eurobond (12.1) (12.1)
__________ __________
(26.6) (27.0)
Less: charged to balance sheet 0.4 0.2
__________ __________
Total interest charged to the Group Income Statement (26.2) (26.8)
__________ __________
Other finance costs:
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (45.3) (45.4)
Expected return on pension scheme assets 43.6 42.6
__________ __________
Net pension scheme interest (1.7) (2.8)
Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision (0.1) (0.1)
Other finance charges (1.7) (1.2)
__________ __________
Total other finance costs (3.5) (4.1)
__________ __________
Total finance costs (29.7) (30.9)
__________ __________
Net finance costs (19.3) (27.0)
__________ __________
__________ __________ Notes to the Accounts 58
8. Tax Charge
(i) Analysis of charge in the year
2006 2005
£m £m
Group Income Statement
Current tax charge
UK corporation tax at 30% (2005 - 30%) -   continuing operations 32.4 18.5
-   discontinued operations 0.1 4.8
Corporation tax overprovided in previous years - (4.5)
__________ __________
Total current tax charge 32.5 18.8
__________ __________
Deferred tax charge
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in current year -   continuing operations 4.6 1.3
-   discontinued operations - (0.6)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences relating to prior years (0.8) -
__________ __________
Total deferred tax charge 3.8 0.7
__________ __________
Tax charge reported in the Group Income Statement 36.3 19.5
__________ __________
__________ __________
The tax charge in the Group Income Statement is disclosed as follows:
Tax charge on continuing operations 36.2 15.3
Tax charge on discontinued operations 0.1 4.2
__________ __________
36.3 19.5
__________ __________
__________ __________
Deferred tax relating to items charged/(credited) to equity
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension liability 9.5 (0.3)
Revaluation of cash flow hedges 0.9 0.2
__________ __________
Tax charge/(credit) in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 10.4 (0.1)
__________ __________
__________ __________
(ii) Reconciliation of total tax charge
The tax charge in the Group Income Statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2005 - 30%).  The
differences are reconciled below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit from continuing operations before tax charge 129.7 76.3
Profit from discontinued operations before tax charge 111.0 14.1
__________ __________
Accounting profit before tax charge 240.7 90.4
__________ __________
__________ __________
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 30% (2005 - 30%) 72.2 27.1
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (33.2) -
Lower taxes on overseas earnings (2.2) (3.0)
Tax overprovided in previous years (0.8) (4.5)
Other 0.3 (0.1)
__________ __________
Tax charge for the year 36.3 19.5
__________ __________
__________ __________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 59
8. Tax Charge (continued)
(iii) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 31 March 2006, no deferred tax liability (2005 - £nil) is recognised for taxes that would be payable on the undistributed profits of the Group’s foreign
subsidiaries, as the Group has determined that undistributed profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with the Group’s investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate
to £4.2m (2005 - £2.3m).
There are no tax consequences for the Company attaching to the payment of dividends to shareholders.
(iv) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the Group Balance Sheet is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax assets
Pension liability 30.9 48.4
Special pension contribution 5.6 -
Provisions 10.9 12.0
Revaluations of derivative financial instruments 1.9 2.4
Tax losses carried forward 7.8 7.4
Other 0.2 0.3
__________ __________
Deferred tax assets 57.3 70.5
__________ __________
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated capital allowances 146.4 146.3
Revaluations of derivative financial instruments 1.3 0.9
Held-over gains on property disposals 3.7 3.2
__________ __________
Deferred tax liabilities 151.4 150.4
__________ __________
Net deferred tax liability 94.1 79.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
The deferred tax included in the Group Income Statement is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 5.8
Temporary differences in respect of provisions 1.1 (5.4)
Held-over gains on property disposals 0.5 -
Timing differences in respect of pensions 2.4 0.3
Tax losses carried forward (0.4) (0.3)
Other 0.1 0.3
__________ __________
Deferred tax charge 3.8 0.7
__________ __________
__________ __________
Company
The deferred tax asset included in the Company Balance Sheet is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Revaluation of derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.2
__________ __________
__________ __________
9. Profit for the Financial Year
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £163.8m (2005 - £30.6m). Notes to the Accounts 60
10. Earnings per Share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on:
2006 2005
£m £m
Net profit attributable to equity holders:
Continuing operations 93.5 61.0
Discontinued operations 110.9 9.9
__________ __________
Continuing and discontinued operations 204.4 70.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
2006 2005
Number Number
Number of shares (million):
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 125.6 133.4
Effect of Executive Share Option/Sharesave schemes 1.0 0.9
__________ __________
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 126.6 134.3
__________ __________
__________ __________
The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year ended 31 March 2006 decreased to 125.6m reflecting the 9 for 10 share capital
consolidation in August 2005.
The directors believe that the performance of NIE’s regulated businesses is best assessed by reference to their regulated entitlement and as a result the
directors present both basic earnings per share (under IAS 33 Earnings per Share) and earnings per share on a pro-forma basis in the Financial
Review.
11. Dividends Paid and Proposed
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend of 25.34p for the year ended 31 March 2005 (2004 - 24.20p) 34.0 32.3
Interim dividend of 10.28p for the year ended 31 March 2006 (2005 - 9.84p) 12.6 13.2
__________ __________
Dividends paid 46.6 45.5
__________ __________
__________ __________
Proposed for approval at AGM:
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend of 26.61p for the year ended 31 March 2006 (2005 - 25.34p) 32.6 33.8
__________ __________
__________ __________
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a
liability in these accounts in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 61
12. Property, Plant and Equipment
Group Non-
Infrastructure operational Fixtures Vehicles
and generation land and and and mobile
assets buildings equipment plant Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 1,279.0 18.9 107.0 7.3 1,412.2
Exchange adjustment 4.7 0.2 - - 4.9
Additions 72.7 0.2 11.6 0.1 84.6
Disposals (0.2) - (1.8) (0.1) (2.1)
Assets held for sale and included in disposal groups - (5.6) (66.0) (0.1) (71.7)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2005 1,356.2 13.7 50.8 7.2 1,427.9
Exchange adjustment 2.5 0.1 - - 2.6
Additions 85.0 0.5 4.1 0.1 89.7
Disposals (0.5) - - - (0.5)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2006 1,443.2 14.3 54.9 7.3 1,519.7
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
Depreciation:
At 1 April 2004 382.3 3.1 57.7 6.9 450.0
Exchange adjustment 0.3 - - - 0.3
Charge for the year 42.3 0.5 16.3 0.1 59.2
Disposals - - (1.3) (0.1) (1.4)
Assets held for sale and included in disposal groups - (2.9) (39.0) - (41.9)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2005 424.9 0.7 33.7 6.9 466.2
Exchange adjustment 0.5 - - - 0.5
Charge for the year 39.1 0.1 4.7 0.1 44.0
Disposals (0.5) - - - (0.5)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2006 464.0 0.8 38.4 7.0 510.2
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
Net book value:
At 31 March 2004 896.7 15.8 49.3 0.4 962.2
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2005 931.3 13.0 17.1 0.3 961.7
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
At 31 March 2006 979.2 13.5 16.5 0.3 1,009.5
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________ __________
Included in infrastructure and generation assets are amounts in respect of assets under construction amounting to £55.6m (2005 - £43.7m) and
capitalised interest of £16.2m (2005 - £15.8m). Notes to the Accounts 62
13. Intangible Assets
Group Development Software
costs costs Goodwill Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 11.7 10.8 59.8 - 82.3
Additions acquired externally - 6.3 - - 6.3
Assets held for sale and included in disposal groups (11.7) - (57.8) - (69.5)
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2005 - 17.1 2.0 - 19.1
Additions acquired externally - 4.6 - 0.6 5.2
Disposals - - - (0.2) (0.2)
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2006 - 21.7 2.0 0.4 24.1
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
Amortisation/impairment:
At 1 April 2004 6.5 5.2 26.0 - 37.7
Amortisation charge for the year 2.3 1.8 - - 4.1
Impairment charge for the year - - 0.1 - 0.1
Assets held for sale and included in disposal groups (8.8) - (25.5) - (34.3)
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2005 - 7.0 0.6 - 7.6
Amortisation charge for the year - 1.6 - - 1.6
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2006 - 8.6 0.6 - 9.2
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
Net book value:
At 31 March 2004 5.2 5.6 33.8 - 44.6
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2005 - 10.1 1.4 - 11.5
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
At 31 March 2006 - 13.1 1.4 0.4 14.9
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
______________ ______________ ______________ __________ __________
Included in software costs are amounts in respect of assets under construction amounting to £9.8m (2005 - £6.2m).
Development costs and software costs are amortised over their finite useful economic lives.
Impairment testing
Goodwill arising on acquisitions has been capitalised and is reviewed for impairment annually.  For the purposes of impairment testing the carrying
value of the Group’s goodwill relates to two cash generating units - Sx3 and Huntstown 1. 
The Group disposed of Sx3 on 25 April 2005.  The recoverable amount at 31 March 2005 in respect of Sx3 was calculated using its fair value less
costs to sell.
The recoverable amount in respect of Huntstown 1 goodwill (£1.4m at 31 March 2006) is based on its value-in-use, which has been determined using
discounted future cash flows.  The cash flow projections cover a 27 year period, being the estimated remaining useful life of Huntstown 1.  The key
assumptions relate to Huntstown 1 plant performance and wholesale electricity prices.  The plant performance assumptions regarding availability and
efficiency take into account the plant’s long-term maintenance plan and normal plant degradation.  The wholesale electricity price forecasts are derived
from management’s expectations regarding the SEM, electricity demand growth, generation plant additions and retirements, fuel and CO
2
costs,
financing costs and other plant running costs.  The projections are based on business plans for a period of 5 years which have been reviewed by the
Board and management forecasts thereafter.  The assumptions regarding electricity demand growth in the RoI are based on Eirgrid’s published
forecasts for the first 5 years; thereafter the demand growth rate assumption is approximately 2% per annum.  The cash flows were discounted using a
pre tax nominal discount rate of 10%. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 63
14. Investments
Company - Investment in subsidiaries
£m
Cost:
At 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006 697.0
__________
__________
Details of the principal investments in which the Group or Company (unless indicated) held 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share
capital during the year are as follows:
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Proportion held Nature of business
of voting rights
and shares
NIE
Northern Ireland Electricity plc Ordinary shares and 100% Power procurement,
Preference shares transmission, distribution
and supply of electricity
SONI Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Transmission system operator
Powerteam
NIE Powerteam Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Infrastructure contracting
Powerteam Electrical Services (UK) Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Infrastructure contracting
Powerteam Electrical Services Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Infrastructure contracting
VP&E
Viridian Power and Energy Ltd Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Huntstown Power Company Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Electricity generation
GenSys Power Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Operating and maintenance services
Viridian Power Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Generation development
Viridian Energy Supply Ltd (trading as Energia) Ordinary shares 100% * Energy supply
Viridian Energy Ltd (trading as Energia) Ordinary shares 100% * Energy supply
Other
Viridian Capital Ltd Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Viridian Enterprises Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Holding company
Viridian Properties Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Property 
Viridian Insurance Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Insurance
Discontinued operations
Sx3
Service and Systems Solutions Ltd (trading as Sx3) Ordinary shares 100% * Software & IT services
LearnServe Ltd Ordinary shares 100% * Software & IT services
* held by a subsidiary undertaking.
All the above companies are incorporated in Northern Ireland with the exception of:
- Viridian Insurance Ltd incorporated in the Isle of Man; and
- Powerteam Electrical Services Ltd, Huntstown Power Company Ltd, GenSys Power Ltd, Viridian Power Ltd and Viridian Energy Ltd incorporated in
the RoI.
15. Other Financial Assets
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Loan notes - 10.7 - -
Financial assets 0.3 0.2 - -
Other loans 0.7 0.4 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
1.0 11.3 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Current
Loan notes - 1.2 - -
Other loans 0.1 - - -
Intra-group loans - - 84.4 78.3
__________ __________ __________ __________
0.1 1.2 84.4 78.3
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
The directors consider that the carrying amount of financial assets equates to fair value. Notes to the Accounts 64
16. Inventories
Group
2006 2005
£m £m
Materials and consumables 4.9 4.3
Work-in-progress 2.7 2.7
__________ __________
7.6 7.0
__________ __________
__________ __________
17. Trade and Other Receivables
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables (including unbilled consumption) 142.2 115.5 - -
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts 2.7 1.8 - -
Other receivables 0.3 4.9 - -
Amounts owed by subsidiaries - - 1.7 1.4
Prepayments and accrued income 7.5 7.5 0.6 0.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
152.7 129.7 2.3 1.9
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Trade receivables are stated net of a provision of £7.4m (2005 - £7.3m) for estimated irrecoverable amounts based on past default experience:
Group
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 7.3 8.5
Increase in provision 2.6 2.1
Bad debts written off (2.5) (3.3)
__________ __________
At 31 March 7.4 7.3
__________ __________
__________ __________
The above provision includes £6.0m (2005 - £5.6m) in respect of individual assets impaired based on the age of debt and past default experience.
The following shows an aged analysis of the Group’s trade receivables:
Group
2006 2005
£m £m
Within credit terms:
Current 126.2 105.8
Past due:
30 - 60 days 5.7 3.8
60 - 90 days 2.7 0.6
+ 90 days 7.6 5.3
__________ __________
142.2 115.5
__________ __________
__________ __________
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to fair value. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 65
18. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.2 1.7 - 0.2
Short-term bank deposits 138.6 70.8 85.7 59.3
Short-term managed funds 4.8 6.6 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
147.6 79.1 85.7 59.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.  Short-term bank deposits and short-term managed funds
are invested for periods of between one day and three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the short-term
deposit rates.  The directors consider that the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents equates to fair value.
Euro-denominated balances within cash and cash equivalents amount to £15.3m (2005 - £10.9m); the remainder is denominated in Sterling. 
For the purposes of the Cash Flow Statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 March:
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.2 1.7 - 0.2
Short-term bank deposits 138.6 70.8 85.7 59.3
Short-term managed funds 4.8 6.6 - -
Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations - 7.5 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
147.6 86.6 85.7 59.5
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
19. Trade and Other Payables 
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Trade payables 78.5 71.1 - -
Other payables 7.9 2.1 - -
Payments received on account 23.7 21.3 - -
Amounts owed to subsidiaries - - 0.8 0.8
Tax and social security 5.9 5.4 - -
Accruals 64.6 51.8 1.3 1.2
__________ __________ __________ __________
180.6 151.7 2.1 2.0
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables equates to fair value. Notes to the Accounts 66
20. Other Financial Liabilities
Group Company
Note 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Current
Interest payable on Eurobond 6.4 6.4 - -
Interest payable on EIB loan 0.3 0.3 - -
Interest payable on revolving credit facility 0.1 0.1 - -
Huntstown bank loan facility 6.0 5.9 - -
Loan notes - 0.1 - -
Intra-group loans - - 148.6 164.2
Redeemable B shares 29 0.8 - 0.8 -
__________ __________ __________ __________
13.6 12.8 149.4 164.2
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Non-current
Eurobond 173.0 172.9 - -
EIB loan 100.0 100.0 - -
Huntstown bank loan facility 113.9 125.0 - -
Revolving credit facility 57.1 39.1 57.1 39.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
444.0 437.0 57.1 39.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
Loans and other borrowings outstanding are repayable as follows:
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
In one year or less or on demand 13.6 12.8 149.4 164.2
In more than one year but not more than two years 6.5 6.1 - -
In more than two years but not more than five years 180.0 161.0 57.1 39.1
In more than five years 257.5 269.9 - -
__________ __________ __________ __________
457.6 449.8 206.5 203.3
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________
The principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
- the Eurobond is repayable in 2018 and carries a fixed interest rate of 6.875%;
- the £100m EIB loan is repayable in 2009 and carries a floating interest rate based on LIBOR.  The weighted average interest rate during the year
was 4.59% (2005 - 4.60%);
- the €171.7m (£119.9m) Huntstown bank loan facility (2005 - €190.3m (£130.9m)) is repayable in semi-annual instalments to 2017.  This bank
loan is secured over the assets of Huntstown 1 and carries interest fixed at 6.43% through interest rate swaps.
In addition the Group has revolving credit facilities of £225m which mature in 2010 and can be drawn in Sterling or Euro.  The facilities carry a floating
interest rate based on LIBOR/EURIBOR as appropriate. At 31 March 2006, €81.8m (£57.1m) (2005 - €56.8m (£39.1m)) had been drawn on these
facilities, and the interest on €18.7m had been fixed through interest rate swaps.  The weighted average interest rate was 3.25% (2005 - 2.99%).
At 31 March 2006, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £167.9m (2005 - £185.9m) in respect of which all conditions precedent
had been met.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of loans and other borrowings equates to fair value with the exception of the Eurobond which had a
fair value at 31 March 2006 of £199.3m (2005 - £196.7m) based on current market rates. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 67
21. Derivative Financial Instruments
Foreign exchange Commodity Interest rate
contracts swaps swaps Total
£m £m £m £m
2006
Group
Current assets 1.5 9.5 - 11.0
Current liabilities (0.3) (0.5) (2.9) (3.7)
Non-current liabilities -- (9.9) (9.9)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At 31 March 2006 1.2 9.0 (12.8) (2.6)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Company
Current liabilities -- (0.3) (0.3)
Non-current liabilities -- (1.0) (1.0)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At 31 March 2006 -- (1.3) (1.3)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
2005
Group
Non-current assets 0.7 0.7 - 1.4
Current assets 1.0 4.8 - 5.8
Current liabilities - (0.9) (4.3) (5.2)
Non-current liabilities - (0.1) (12.8) (12.9)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At 31 March 2005 1.7 4.5 (17.1) (10.9)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
Company
Current liabilities -- (0.2) (0.2)
Non-current liabilities - - (0.6) (0.6)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
At 31 March 2005 -- (0.8) (0.8)
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
______________ ______________ ______________ ______________
The Group’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of derivative financial instruments are described in the Financial Review.
Foreign exchange contracts - cash flow hedges
The Group has entered into foreign exchange contracts in respect of forecast Sterling costs of its Euro-denominated RoI subsidiaries for the year ending
31 March 2007.  The timing and amount of these foreign exchange contracts match the forecast requirements and the contracts are considered
effective hedges.  At 31 March 2006 the fair value of foreign exchange contracts was £1.2m (2005 - £1.7m).  At 31 March 2006 an unrealised gain of
£0.9m (2005 - £1.5m), net of deferred tax of £0.1m (2005 - £0.2m), relating to foreign exchange contracts is included in equity.  During the year,
realised gains of £2.5m (2005 - £0.1m) were removed from equity and are primarily included within energy costs in the income statement in respect of
completed hedges. 
During the year gains of £0.2m (2005 - £nil) were realised in respect of foreign exchange contracts for which hedge accounting was discontinued due
to the hedge designation being revoked.  Losses of £0.2m (2005 - £nil) were realised in respect of foreign exchange contracts that did not qualify for
hedge accounting.  
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts has been calculated by applying the forward price derived from third party market price quotations. Notes to the Accounts 68
21. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)
Commodity swaps - cash flow hedges
The Group has entered into commodity swap contracts in respect of forecast gas purchases for the year ending 31 March 2007.  The timing and
amount of the swap contracts match the forecast requirements and the contracts are considered effective hedges.  At 31 March 2006 the fair value of
commodity swap contracts was £9.0m (2005 - £4.5m).  At 31 March 2006 an unrealised gain of £7.9m (2005 - £3.9m), net of deferred tax of £1.1m
(2005 - £0.6m), relating to swap contracts is included in equity.  During the year, realised gains of £16.3m (2005 - £3.2m) were removed from equity
and are included within energy costs in the income statement in respect of completed hedges. 
During the year losses of £1.8m (2005 - £nil) were realised in respect of commodity swaps for which hedge accounting was discontinued due to the
hedge designation being revoked.  Gains of £1.8m (2005 - £nil) were made in respect of commodity swaps that did not qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of commodity contracts has been calculated by applying the forward price derived from third party market price quotations.
Interest rate swaps - cash flow hedges
The Group has entered into interest rate swap contracts whereby it pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a variable rate of interest on the
outstanding principal of certain Euro-denominated borrowings.  The terms of the swap contracts match the loan profile and the contracts are
considered effective hedges.  At 31 March 2006 the fair value of interest rate swaps was a liability of £12.8m (2005 - £17.1m).  At 31 March 2006 an
unrealised loss of £11.0m (2005 - £14.8m), net of deferred tax of £1.8m (2005 - £2.3m), relating to swap contracts is included in equity.  During the
year, realised losses of £4.5m (2005 - £4.8m) were removed from equity and are included within finance costs in the income statement in respect of
completed hedges.
The fair value of interest rate swaps has been valued by calculating the present value of future cash flows, estimated using forward rates from third
party market price quotations.
22. Sensitivity Analysis - Financial Instruments
At 31 March 2006, the Group is exposed to future changes in the fair value of unsettled derivative financial instruments.  The sensitivity analysis for
each type of market risk showing the impact on equity is set out below.  These sensitivities are based on an assessment of market rate movements
during the year and each is considered to be a reasonably possible range.  There is no impact on the income statement.
The impact on the fair value of foreign exchange contracts is calculated by increasing/decreasing by 2% the effective Sterling:Euro exchange rates of
third party price quotations. 
The impact on the fair value of commodity swaps is calculated by increasing/decreasing by 5p the effective commodity prices of third party price
quotations.
The impact on the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by increasing/decreasing by 1% the Euro interest rates of third party price quotations.
2006
credit/(charge)
£m
Foreign exchange contracts
2% increase in Sterling:Euro exchange rate 1.2
2% decrease in Sterling:Euro exchange rate (1.2)
Commodity swaps
5 pence increase in gas price per therm 5.0
5 pence decrease in gas price per therm (5.0)
Interest rate swaps
1% increase in Euro interest rates 7.0
1% decrease in Euro interest rates (7.6)
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had net Euro-denominated financial liabilities of £2.9m (2005 - £nil) where the functional currency is Sterling, in
respect of which a 2% movement in the Sterling:Euro exchange rate would have an insignificant impact.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had Euro-denominated net assets of £23.4m (2005 - £nil).  A 2% increase/decrease in the Sterling:Euro exchange
rate would decrease/increase the Group’s net assets by £0.4m. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 69
23. Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Group Company
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit:
Continuing operations 149.0 103.3 164.0 27.7
Discontinued operations 0.3 14.2 - -
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 44.0 59.2 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.6 4.1 - -
Amortisation of customers’ contributions and grants (5.7) (6.5) - -
Write-down of investment - 0.1 - -
Share-based payments 0.1 0.6 - -
Defined benefit pension charge less contributions paid (29.0) (3.8) - -
Net movement in provisions (4.4) 8.8 - -
Equity dividend income from subsidiaries - - (164.0) (27.7)
__________ __________ __________ __________
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 155.9 180.0 - -
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 9.3 13.8 (0.1) 1.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 165.2 193.8 (0.1) 1.1
__________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ Notes to the Accounts 70
24. Net Debt
Group
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 147.6 79.1
__________ __________
Debt due before 1 year:
Interest payable on Eurobond (6.4) (6.4)
Bank loans (6.4) (6.3)
Loan notes - (0.1)
Redeemable B shares (0.8) -
__________ __________
(13.6) (12.8)
__________ __________
Debt due after 1 year:
Eurobond (173.0) (172.9)
Bank loans (271.0) (264.1)
__________ __________
(444.0) (437.0)
__________ __________
Net debt - continuing operations (310.0) (370.7)
Net funds classified as held for sale - 4.0
__________ __________
Total net debt (310.0) (366.7)
__________ __________
__________ __________
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 61.4 29.1
Proceeds from borrowings (24.4) (52.2)
Repayment of borrowings 19.9 51.3
Payments in respect of Redeemable B shares 97.1 -
Expenses associated with return of capital 0.2 -
__________ __________
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 154.2 28.2
Loan disposed of with discontinued operations 3.3 -
Issue of Redeemable B shares (including expenses) (98.1) -
Decrease/(increase) in interest accruals - (0.1)
Translation difference (2.7) (5.4)
__________ __________
Movement in net debt in year 56.7 22.7
Net debt at beginning of year (366.7) (389.4)
__________ __________
Net debt at end of year (310.0) (366.7)
__________ __________
__________ __________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 71
25. Provisions
Group Reorganisation Liability and Provision
and damage for former
restructuring claims associate Decommissioning Environment Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current 4.1 0.6 2.8 - 1.2 8.7
Non-current - 7.8 - 2.1 23.6 33.5
Total at 1 April 2005 4.1 8.4 2.8 2.1 24.8 42.2
___________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applied in the year (1.8) (1.0) (2.4) - (1.2) (6.4)
Released to income statement - (0.6) - - (0.3) (0.9)
Increase in provisions 0.8 1.3 - - 0.8 2.9
Unwinding of discount - - - 0.1 0.8 0.9
Current 3.1 0.9 0.4 - 11.8 16.2
Non-current - 7.2 - 2.2 13.1 22.5
Total at 31 March 2006 3.1 8.1 0.4 2.2 24.9 38.7
___________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________
Reorganisation and restructuring
Reorganisation and restructuring provisions relate to amounts expected to be paid to VGPS in accordance with voluntary severance arrangements.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within the next year.
Liability and damage claims
Notwithstanding the intention of the directors to defend vigorously claims made against the Group, liability and damage claim provisions have been
made which represent the directors’ best estimate of costs expected to arise from ongoing third party litigation matters and employee claims. These
provisions are expected to be utilised within a period not exceeding five years.
Provision for former associate (Lislyn Limited)
Provision has been made for obligations expected to arise in respect of those members of Lislyn’s defined benefit pension scheme who were employees
of NIE at privatisation.  The provision is expected to be utilised within the next year.
Decommissioning
Provision has been made for decommissioning Huntstown 1.  The provision represents the present value of the current estimated costs of closure of the
plant at the end of its useful economic life.  The provision has been discounted using a rate of 4.43% (2005 - 4.43%) and is expected to be utilised
within a period not exceeding thirty years.
Environment
Provision has been made for expected costs of decontamination and demolition arising from privatisation obligations in respect of power station sites
formerly owned by NIE.  It is anticipated that most expenditure will take place within the next five years. Notes to the Accounts 72
26. Deferred Income
Group Support &
maintenance Customers’
contracts Grants contributions Total
£m £m £m £m
Current 14.2 0.7 5.8 20.7
Non-current 3.1 11.4 131.4 145.9
Total at 1 April 2004 17.3 12.1 137.2 166.6
__________________________________________________________________________________
Receivable 30.2 - 15.6 45.8
Released to income statement (19.3) (0.7) (5.8) (25.8)
Liabilities included in disposal groups (28.2) - - (28.2)
Current - 0.7 5.9 6.6
Non-current - 10.7 141.1 151.8
Total at 31 March 2005 - 11.4 147.0 158.4
__________________________________________________________________________________
Receivable - - 17.1 17.1
Released to income statement - (0.5) (5.2) (5.7)
Current - 0.5 5.1 5.6
Non-current - 10.4 153.8 164.2
Total at 31 March 2006 - 10.9 158.9 169.8
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 73
27. Lease Obligations
Property, plant and equipment
The Group has entered into leases on certain items of property, plant and equipment.  These leases contain options for renewal before the expiry of the
lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of renewal.  
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Within one year 1.4 2.8
After one year but not more than five years 2.8 7.4
More than five years 2.5 7.4
__________ __________
6.7 17.6
__________ __________
__________ __________
PPAs
NIE has entered into PPAs with generating companies in Northern Ireland to make payments for the availability of generating capacity as well as for the
purchase of electricity generated.  The principal contracts are with Premier Power Ltd (Ballylumford), AES Kilroot Power Ltd (Kilroot) and ESB
Independent Energy Limited (Coolkeeragh).  The main Ballylumford contracts expire in 2012 but NIE has options to extend up to 2022. Payment terms
for these extension periods are pre-defined in the contracts.  The Kilroot contracts expire in 2024 but NIAER has early contract cancellation rights that
can be exercised from November 2010.  The Coolkeeragh contracts expire in 2020 but again NIAER has early contract cancellation rights that can be
exercised from November 2010.
Under IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, the PPAs are deemed to contain lease arrangements.  Under IAS 17 Leases,
these lease arrangements are classified as operating leases and the availability payments are classified as operating lease rentals.  The availability
payments are dependent on the availability of the generators and are therefore variable in nature.  The estimated future minimum lease payments are
as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Within one year 142.1 129.5
After one year but not more than five years 520.4 568.0
More than five years 65.3 159.8
__________ __________
727.8 857.3
__________ __________
__________ __________
As a result of changes in environmental legislation, FGD equipment is being installed at the Kilroot plant. Under the terms of the PPA, Kilroot will be
entitled to increase its availability charges to recover the cost of installation, including financing, when the equipment is commissioned.  The amounts
disclosed in the table above do not include this cost, which is estimated at £35m. Notes to the Accounts 74
28. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
(i) Capital commitments
At 31 March 2006 the Group had contracted future capital expenditure in respect of property, plant and equipment of £122.9m (2005 - £8.9m).
(ii) Contingent liabilities
Contract buy-out agreement
In December 2000 a number of the PPA contracts at Ballylumford were renegotiated.  As part of these arrangements a contract buy-out (CBO)
agreement was entered into to make payments to fund a buy-out of the profit element under the original agreements at Ballylumford.  The CBO
agreement has provisions under which a termination amount becomes payable in certain circumstances.  The size of the payment depends on the
termination date.  NIE does not anticipate that any liability will arise and no provision has been made.
Protected persons
The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of obligations under the Electricity (Protected Persons) Pensions Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992 to
protect the pension rights of employees of NIE at privatisation.  This includes members employed in companies which have subsequently been
disposed of by the Group.  The Group does not anticipate that any liability will arise other than that recognised in the accounts.
Power station sites
NIE leases sites to power stations in Northern Ireland.  Under the terms of the lease agreements NIE may be required to pay compensation if a lease is
terminated.  Since the extent of the compensation will depend on the circumstances which give rise to the termination, it is not possible to identify the
magnitude of any potential liability.  NIE does not anticipate that any liability for compensation will arise and no provision has been made.
PPAs
Under the terms of the PPAs, where modifications to generating equipment are necessary as a result of a change in law and a generator is unable to
procure the necessary financing, NIE must either provide such finance or pay the costs incurred by the generator in carrying out such modifications.
The costs incurred by NIE in meeting these obligations are recoverable under its Licence, but will require to be financed by NIE until such recovery is
achieved.  NIE does not anticipate any liability for modifications which require financing and no provision has been made.
Property clawback
A clawback debenture was entered into in 1993 which entitled DETI to a proportion of any property gain (above certain thresholds) accruing or treated
as accruing to any member of the Group as a result of disposals, or events treated as disposals (deemed disposals), occurring after 31 March 1993 in
relation to land and any buildings on that land in which NIE had an interest at 31 March 1993.  These arrangements lasted until 31 March 2003.
NIE is in dispute with DETI in connection with valuations relating to the possibility of any clawback liability payable as a result of disposal by NIE of
property at its Danesfort site and of some other retail properties.  The parties have agreed that the dispute should be determined by an independent
expert under the terms of the clawback debenture.
A provision for clawback in respect of property disposals has been made only to the extent that it is probable that a liability will crystallise. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 75
29. Share Capital
Authorised 2006 2005
£ £
194,400,000 ordinary shares of 27
7
/ 9 p each (2005 - 216,000,000 ordinary 
shares of 25p each) 54,000,000 54,000,000
136,000,000 Redeemable non-cumulative non-voting shares 
of 73p each (Redeemable B shares) 99,280,000 -
1 deferred A share of nil value - -
_______________ _______________
153,280,000 54,000,000
_______________ _______________
_______________ _______________
Allotted and fully paid Ordinary Ordinary Redeemable Redeemable
shares shares B shares B shares
Number £ Number £
At 1 April 2004 133,172,814 33,293,203 - -
Shares allotted during the year under Executive 
Share Option/Sharesave schemes 582,292 145,573 - -
_______________ _______________ _______________ _______________
At 1 April 2005  133,755,106 33,438,776 - -
Shares allotted during the period under Executive 
Share Option/Sharesave schemes 387,674 96,919 - -
Share capital cancelled (134,142,780) (33,535,695) - -
Share capital issued on 15 August 2005 120,728,502 33,535,695 - -
Shares allotted during the period under Executive  
Share Option/Sharesave schemes 1,736,985 482,496 - -
Redeemable B shares issued - - 134,142,780 97,924,229
Redeemable B shares redeemed - - (132,971,916) (97,069,498)
_______________ _______________ _______________ _______________
At 31 March 2006 122,465,487 34,018,191 1,170,864 854,731
_______________ _______________ _______________ _______________
_______________ _______________ _______________ _______________
On 15 August 2005, the ordinary share capital was consolidated on the basis of nine new ordinary shares of 27
7
/ 9 p each for every 10 existing ordinary
shares of 25p each and one Redeemable B share for every existing ordinary share of 25p each.  The Redeemable B shares are redeemable at par.
They are unlisted, carry no dividend or voting rights and are not transferrable.  On winding up of the Company, the Redeemable B shareholders have a
right to receive, in priority to any payments to the ordinary shareholders, repayment of the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the
Redeemable B shares held by them.
During the year, options in respect of the Sharesave Scheme and Executive Share Option Scheme were exercised for a total consideration of £9.5m
(2005 - £3.3m). Notes to the Accounts 76
30. Reconciliation of Movements in Equity
Group Foreign
Capital currency
Share Share redemption Hedge translation Accumulated
capital premium reserve reserve reserve profits Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 33.3 10.0 - (11.2) - 91.0 123.1
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year - - - 1.8 0.2 70.2 72.2
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.1 3.2 - - - - 3.3
Share-based payments - - - - - 0.6 0.6
Equity dividends - - - - - (45.5) (45.5)
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
At 1 April 2005 33.4 13.2 - (9.4) 0.2 116.3 153.7
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year - - - 7.2 0.6 226.5 234.3
Other items charged to reserves - - - - - (1.1) (1.1)
Issue of Redeemable B shares - (13.0) - - - (84.9) (97.9)
Expenses associated with return of capital - - - - - (0.2) (0.2)
Payments in respect of Redeemable B shares - - 97.1 - - (97.1) -
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.6 8.9 - - - - 9.5
Share-based payments - - - - - 0.8 0.8
Equity dividends - - - - - (46.6) (46.6)
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
At 31 March 2006 34.0 9.1 97.1 (2.2) 0.8 113.7 252.5
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
Company Capital
Share Share redemption Merger Hedge Accumulated
capital premium reserve reserve reserve profits Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 33.3 10.0 - 442.9 (0.5) 154.6 640.3
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year - - - - (0.1) 30.6 30.5
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.1 3.2 - - - - 3.3
Equity dividends - - - - - (45.5) (45.5)
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
At 1 April 2005 33.4 13.2 - 442.9 (0.6) 139.7 628.6
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year - - - - (0.3) 163.8 163.5
Issue of Redeemable B shares - (13.0) - (84.9) - - (97.9)
Expenses associated with return of capital - - - - - (0.2) (0.2)
Payments in respect of Redeemable B shares - - 97.1 - - (97.1) -
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.6 8.9 - - - - 9.5
Equity dividends - - - - - (46.6) (46.6)
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
At 31 March 2006 34.0 9.1 97.1 358.0 (0.9) 159.6 656.9
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
__________ __________ _____________ _________ ____________ _______________ ________
The balance classified as share capital comprises the nominal value of the Company’s share capital, consisting of 27
7
/ 9 p ordinary shares (2005 - 25p
ordinary shares).
The balance classified as share premium records the total net proceeds on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital less the nominal value of
the share capital. 
The balance classified as capital redemption reserve arises from the legal requirement to maintain the capital of the Company following the return of
that amount of capital to shareholders during the year.
The balance classified as hedge reserve records the gain or loss on cash flow hedges determined to be effective hedges.
The balance classified as foreign currency translation reserve records the exchange difference arising from the retranslation of the accounts of foreign
subsidiaries.
The balance classified as merger reserve relates to the capital reorganisation under which the Company acquired NIE in 1998. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 77
31. Share-Based Payments
(i) Share-based payments expense
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the year to 31 March 2006 was £1.3m (2005 -
£0.6m).  This expense relates to the Group’s share option schemes and to the PSP, CIP and SIP.  All these schemes are equity-settled.  In accordance
with the exception permitted under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, no expense has been recognised in respect of options over 290,152 shares (2005 -
925,766) which were granted before 7 November 2002.
(ii) Share option schemes
The Company operates an all-employee Sharesave Scheme and a discretionary Executive Share Option Scheme.
The all-employee Sharesave Scheme is a savings related scheme whereby employees enter into a three year save-as-you-earn contract with options to
acquire shares.  The exercise price represents 80% of the market price at the time of grant.  The options are exercisable during the six month period
following the three year savings contract.
Under the Executive Share Option Scheme, the exercise price of options granted is the market price at the time of grant.  The options are generally
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant.
The exercise of options under both the all-employee Sharesave Scheme and the Executive Share Option Scheme is subject to continuous employment
over a three year period.  There are no cash settlement alternatives.  
Details of the number of options and weighted average exercise prices were as follows:
Sharesave Scheme Executive Share Option Scheme
Weighted average Weighted average
Options exercise price Options exercise price
Number Pence Number Pence
Outstanding at 31 March 2004 1,721,204 401.6 1,878,629 584.7
Granted - - 251,447 573.5
Exercised (46,535) 385.4 (535,757) 601.2
Forfeited (99,888) 402.0 (38,267) 672.1
Expired (5,922) 402.0 (125,658) 640.8
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________
Outstanding at 31 March 2005 1,568,859 402.0 1,430,394 569.3
Granted 745,706 694.0 85,495 731.0
Exercised (1,492,565) 402.0 (632,094) 553.9
Forfeited (53,310) 424.1 (6,817) 572.9
Expired (7,755) 402.0 (25,350) 646.3
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________
Outstanding at 31 March 2006 760,935 686.6 851,628 597.4
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________
Exercisable at 31 March 2005 15,040 402.0 512,597 668.8
Exercisable at 31 March 2006 20,084 441.2 290,152 629.5
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________
_______________ _____________________ _______________ _____________________ Notes to the Accounts 78
31. Share-Based Payments (continued)
(ii) Share option schemes (continued)
The number of options outstanding, the weighted average remaining contractual life and the weighted average exercise price as at 31 March for the
following range of exercise prices were as follows:
2006 Options Weighted average remaining Weighted average
Outstanding contractual life exercise price
Number Years Pence
Sharesave Scheme
402.0p 19,270 0.3 402.0
694.0p 741,665 3.3 694.0
Executive Share Option Scheme
465.0p – 478.0p 69,945 5.8 466.0
534.5p – 581.0p 488,784 7.5 554.6
638.5p – 656.0p 115,697 4.4 644.8
731.0p – 741.5p 177,202 6.6 736.4
2005 Options Weighted average remaining Weighted average
Outstanding contractual life exercise price
Number Years Pence
Sharesave Scheme
402.0p 1,568,859 1.3 402.0
Executive Share Option Scheme
465.0p – 478.0p 428,110 7.1 465.2
534.5p – 581.0p 574,076 8.1 555.6
638.5p – 656.0p 225,710 5.2 647.1
731.0p – 741.5p 202,498 5.2 741.5
The weighted average share price at the exercise date for options exercised during the year under the Sharesave Scheme was 922.0p (2005 - 618.8p)
and for options exercised under the Executive Share Option Scheme was 803.0p (2005 - 703.3p).
The fair values of options granted under the Sharesave Scheme and Executive Share Option Scheme were measured at the date of grant using a Black
Scholes option pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.  The input data was as follows:
Sharesave Executive Share Option
Scheme Scheme
2006 2005 2006 2005
Share price at the date of grant 851.5 - 741.0 600.0
Exercise price (pence)
1
694.0 - 731.0 573.5
Volatility (%) 18.0 - 19.0 18.0
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.6
2
- 5.3
2
6.3
Expected life of options (years) 3 - 4 4
Risk free rate of interest (%) 4.2 - 4.2 5.2
Option fair value (pence) 165.0 - 83.0 68.0
1
The exercise price of options at the date of grant is set by reference to the market value of a share on the dealing day immediately preceding or, if the Board so
determines, the average market value over the three preceding dealing days. 
2
The expected dividend yield is calculated based on actual dividends paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 and the dividend growth rate during that
year.  The expected dividend yield is indicative only.
The expected volatility is based on historical data over a period equal to the expected life of the option which may not necessarily be the actual
outcome.  No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 79
31. Share-Based Payments (continued)
(iii) PSP and CIP
The Company operates the PSP and the CIP share award plans:
PSP: Under the PSP conditional share awards are granted to a maximum value of 100% of basic salary.  Up to 2004/05 awards were made to executive
directors only.  During 2005/06, in addition to executive directors, awards were made to certain senior managers.  The 2004/05 awards were subject to
the Company’s TSR over a three year performance period relative to a group of comparator companies.  50% of the 2005/06 award is based on the
Company’s TSR over a three year period relative to the constituents of the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding investment trusts).  The other 50% of the
2005/06 award is based on the average ROCE achieved by the Group over a three year period. Both the 2004/05 and 2005/06 awards vest following the
third anniversary of the grant date.   
CIP: During 2005/06, conditional awards were made to executive directors and certain senior managers under the CIP. Participants can invest in the
Company’s shares up to the value of 20% of gross annual salary or 100% of gross performance bonus (whichever is higher).  Matching shares are
awarded after three years, at a minimum level of 50% of shares invested, up to a maximum level of 150% dependent on the achievement of the same
performance conditions as those applying to the PSP.  Matching award shares vest following the third anniversary of the grant date.  
The fair values of awards granted under the PSP and CIP were measured at the date of grant taking into account the terms and conditions upon which
the awards were granted.
The fair value of awards granted is based on the market value of the shares at the date of grant less expected dividends over the three year vesting
period.  The fair value of awards based on relative TSR performance assumes that there is equal probability of achieving any TSR ranking.  The fair
value of awards based on ROCE reflects the ROCE achieved in the first year of the performance period.
The assumptions used to value the conditional share awards granted during the year were as follows:
PSP CIP
2006 2005 2006 2005
Number of conditional share awards granted 173,594 129,742 81,196 -
Share price at the date of grant (pence) 801.0 566.5 801.0 -
Expected dividends per share (pence) 115.3
1
110.4 115.3
1
-
Element of awards based on TSR performance:
- Expected value (%) 40.6 44.0 58.3 -
- Fair value (pence) 278.4 200.7 400.0 -
Element of awards based on ROCE performance:
- Fair value (pence) 685.7 - 685.7 -
1
The expected dividends per share are calculated based on actual dividends paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 and the dividend growth rate
during that year.  The expected dividends are indicative only.
(iv) SIP
The all-employee SIP enables eligible UK based employees to buy shares in the Company out of pre tax salary, subject to a limit of £125 per month.
The Company currently awards one free share for every share purchased up to a limit of £50 per month; the fair value of these awards is the cost of
purchasing the shares.  During 2005/06 52,863 shares (2005 - 4,471) were purchased by the trustees of the SIP on behalf of 791 employees at a total
cost of £433,000 (2005 - £33,000).  Notes to the Accounts 80
32. Pension Commitments
Most employees of the Group are members of VGPS.  This has two sections: "Options" which is a money purchase arrangement whereby the Group
generally matches members’ contributions up to a maximum of 6% of salary and "Focus" which provides benefits based on pensionable salary at
retirement or earlier exit from service.  There is a money purchase arrangement for employees in the RoI known as Choices; its benefits mirror those of
the Options section of VGPS.  In addition the CPP provides benefits for salary above HMRC’s earnings cap to certain executive directors.  The assets of
the schemes are held under trust and invested by the trustees on the advice of professional investment managers.
Hewitt, the actuaries to VGPS, have provided a valuation of Focus and the CPP under IAS 19 at 31 March 2006 based on the following assumptions (in
nominal terms) and using the projected unit method: 
2006 2005
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.9% per annum 3.9% per annum
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9% per annum 3.0% per annum
Discount rate 5.0% per annum 5.3% per annum
Inflation assumption 2.9% per annum 2.9% per annum
Life expectancy:
Current pensioners (at age 60) - males 23.1 years 22.9 years
Current pensioners (at age 60) - females 25.9 years 25.9 years
Future pensioners (at age 60) - males 23.9 years 23.8 years
Future pensioners (at age 60) - females 26.6 years 26.7 years
The life expectancy assumptions are based on standard actuarial mortality tables and include an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
The valuation under IAS 19 at 31 March 2006 shows a net pension liability (before deferred tax) of £102.9m (2005 - £168.6m).  A 0.1%
increase/decrease in the assumed discount rate would decrease/increase the net pension liability by £15m.  A 0.1% increase/decrease in the assumed
inflation rate would increase/decrease the net pension liability by £15m.
Assets and liabilities
The assets and liabilities of Focus and the CPP and the expected rates of return are:
Value at Expected Value at Expected
31 March rate of 31 March rate of
2006 return 2005 return
£m % £m %
Equities 455.7 7.5 407.2 7.0
Bonds 378.6 4.7 294.4 5.3
Other 3.7 4.3 2.1 4.5
____________ ____________
Total market value of assets 838.0 703.7
Actuarial value of liabilities (940.9) (872.3)
____________ ____________
Net pension liability (102.9) (168.6)
____________ ____________
____________ ____________
The net pension liability is disclosed as follows:
Pension liability - continuing operations (102.9) (161.1)
Pension liability - discontinued operations - (7.5)
____________ ____________
Net pension liability (102.9) (168.6)
____________ ____________
____________ ____________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 81
32. Pension Commitments (continued)
The expected rate of return on equities is based on the expected median return over the long-term.  The expected rate of return on bonds is measured
directly from actual market yields for UK gilts and corporate bonds.  Other assets include cash balances and net current assets.  The expected rate of
return on these assets is measured directly from short-term market interest rates.
Changes in the market value of assets
2006 2005
£m £m
Market value of assets at 1 April 703.7 670.0
Expected return 43.6 42.6
Contributions from employer 38.1 14.9
Contributions from scheme members 1.7 2.0
Benefits paid (43.7) (44.5)
Actuarial gain 108.7 18.7
Disposal of subsidiary (14.1) -
__________ __________
Market value of assets at 31 March 838.0 703.7
__________ __________
__________ __________
The Group’s contributions to Focus and the CPP in 2005/06 included a special contribution of £25m.  The Group expects to make total contributions
of £27m to Focus and the CPP in 2006/07, including a special contribution of £10m.
Changes in the actuarial value of liabilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Actuarial value of liabilities at 1 April 872.3 838.6
Interest cost 45.3 45.4
Current service cost 7.1 8.8
Curtailment loss 1.9 2.3
Contributions from scheme members 1.7 2.0
Benefits paid (43.7) (44.5)
Actuarial loss 77.2 19.7
Disposal of subsidiary (20.9) -
__________ __________
Actuarial value of liabilities at 31 March 940.9 872.3
__________ __________
__________ __________
2006 2005
£m £m
Analysis of the amount charged to operating costs (before capitalisation)
Current service cost -   continuing operations (7.1) (7.3)
-   discontinued operations (0.1) (1.5)
Curtailment loss (1.9) (2.3)
__________ __________
Total operating charge (9.1) (11.1)
__________ __________
__________ __________ Notes to the Accounts 82
32. Pension Commitments (continued)
Focus is closed to new members and therefore under the projected unit method the current service cost for members of this section as a percentage of
salary will increase as they approach retirement age.  
2006 2005
£m £m
Analysis of the amount charged to net finance costs
Expected return on assets 43.6 42.6
Interest on liabilities (45.3) (45.4)
__________ __________
Net charge (1.7) (2.8)
__________ __________
__________ __________
The actual return on Focus and the CPP assets was £152.3m (2005 - £61.3m).
2006 2005
£m £m
Analysis of amount recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Actuarial gain on assets 108.7 18.7
Acturial loss on liabilities (77.2) (19.7)
__________ __________
Net actuarial gain/(loss) 31.5 (1.0)
__________ __________
__________ __________
The cumulative actuarial gain recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense since 1 April 2004 is £30.5m (2005 - actuarial
loss of £1.0m).  The directors are unable to determine how much of the net pension liability recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to
equity of £168.6m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since the inception of Focus and the CPP.  Consequently, the directors are unable to
determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
shown before 1 April 2004.
2006 2005
£m £m
History of experience gains and losses
Actuarial gain on assets 108.7 18.7
Actuarial loss on liabilities (77.2) (19.7)
Total actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 31.5 (1.0)
2006 2005
£m £m
Market value of assets 838.0 703.7
Market value of liabilities (940.9) (872.3)
__________ __________
Net pension liability (102.9) (168.6)
__________ __________
__________ __________ Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 83
33. Related Party Disclosures
Remuneration of key management personnel
Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and the Executive Committee.  The compensation paid to those personnel is set out
below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures:  
2006 2005
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 1.8 1.7
Post employment benefits 1.1 0.5
Other long-term benefits 0.7 0.6
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1
__________ __________
3.7 2.9
__________ __________
__________ __________
Other related parties
During the year the Group contributed £38.9m (2005 - £17.4m) to VGPS and the CPP.  The Group also received £0.3m (2005 - £0.3m) in respect of
administrative services provided to VGPS.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries (all owned 100%) have been eliminated on consolidation in the Group accounts.  Details of the
Company’s subsidiaries at 31 March 2006 are listed in note 14.  Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and the balances outstanding
are disclosed below:
Amounts Amounts
Ordinary Preference owed by owed to
dividends dividend Interest Interest subsidiaries subsidiaries
received  received received paid at 31 March at 31 March 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Year to 31 March 2006 164.0 - 3.2 8.8 86.1 149.4
Year to 31 March 2005 28.8 1.1 2.9 4.8 79.7 165.0
____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ _________________ _________________
____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ _________________ _________________
Interest received from and paid to subsidiaries is based on normal market rates.  Outstanding balances with subsidiaries are unsecured.  Intra-group
loan balances are repayable on demand while current account balances are settled on a monthly basis.  Notes to the Accounts 84
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS
Overview of IFRS reconciliations
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group prepared its annual report and accounts in accordance with UK GAAP.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group is required to prepare its annual report and accounts in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU. 
Accordingly, these accounts have been prepared in compliance with IFRS applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005; the significant
accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in note 2.  In preparing these accounts, the Group has started from a balance sheet at 1
April 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRS.  Detailed reconciliations of the Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 and
Balance Sheets at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 under IFRS to the results and financial position previously reported under UK GAAP are set out on
pages 87 to 89.
Exemptions applied
The Group has applied the following exemptions as permitted by IFRS 1:
• IAS 19 Employee Benefits: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in accumulated profits at the transition date;
• IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: IFRS 2 has been applied in respect of all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested
on 1 January 2005, the effective date of IFRS 2;
• IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Business combinations prior to the transition date have not been restated; and
• IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates: The foreign currency translation reserve has been set to zero at the transition date.
The effect of moving from UK GAAP to IFRS had the following impact on the Group for the year ended 31 March 2005:
• Profit for the year increased by £2.8m.
• Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations increased by 2.1p.
• Net assets reduced by £147.6m as at 31 March 2005 mainly as a result of recognition of the deficit in the Group’s defined benefit pension
scheme and the Group’s deferred tax liability no longer being discounted.
IFRS Summary of impact on the Group
IFRS adjustments
The adjustments that have been made to the Group figures as previously reported under UK GAAP are explained below:
• IAS 19 Employee Benefits
Under UK GAAP, the Group applied the provisions of SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs and provided detailed disclosures under Financial
Reporting Standard 17 Retirement Benefits in accounting for pensions.  The Group’s policy was to recognise a charge for its defined benefit pension
arrangements in arriving at operating profit.  This cost comprised the regular cost of providing pensions and a charge or credit relating to the
amortisation of actuarial gains and losses over the average remaining service lives of the employees covered by the relevant arrangements.  
The difference between the cumulative charge for pensions and the cumulative contributions paid was previously recognised as an asset on the
balance sheet.
Under IFRS, the Group has applied the provisions of IAS 19.  Under IAS 19, accounting for pensions reflects, at each balance sheet date, the surplus
or deficit in relation to defined benefit pension arrangements.  IAS 19 permits a number of options for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses.  The
Group’s accounting policy is to recognise any actuarial gains and losses in full immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.  The
liability recognised under IAS 19 in respect of Focus and the CPP amounted to £168.6m at 31 March 2005 (2004 - £168.6m).  Under IAS 19, an
accrual of £1.1m (2004 - £1.1m) was also recognised in respect of holiday pay.  The related deferred tax asset was £50.9m (2004 - £50.9m).  In
addition, under IFRS, the SSAP 24 pension prepayment of £8.9m at 31 March 2005 (2004 - £8.9m) was removed. 
IAS 19 allows separate recognition of the operating and financing costs of defined benefit pension arrangements in the income statement.  The effect of
adopting IAS 19 on the Group’s income statement was to increase operating profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 by £3.8m, increase net finance
costs by £2.8m and hence increase profit before tax by £1.0m.
The level of costs for pensions will vary depending on, amongst other things, the benefits given to members and assumptions relating to interest rates,
the expected return on the pension scheme’s assets and mortality rates.  As the balance sheet under IFRS reflects the deficit in the Group’s pension
scheme, changes in the deficit due to, amongst other things, interest rates and actuarial assumptions, will impact reported net assets.  The Group 
has decided not to adopt the “corridor” approach under IAS 19 and will continue to show the full pension surplus or deficit on the balance sheet 
going forward. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 85
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
• IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
Under UK GAAP, the Group accounted for its employee share schemes on an intrinsic value basis, except for the Group’s Sharesave Scheme
which was excluded from these accounting requirements.  Under IFRS, all employee share schemes (including the Sharesave Scheme) are
accounted for using fair value models.  All equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 which were unvested on 1 January 2005 have
been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.  The impact of applying IFRS 2 was to increase operating profit for the year ended 31 March
2005 by £0.7m. Net assets at 31 March 2005 increased by £0.8m (2004 - decrease of £0.3m).  The increase in profit was primarily due to the
release of accruals made under UK GAAP; otherwise a charge would have been expected.
• IAS 12 Income Taxes
IFRS prohibit the discounting of deferred tax which had been the Group’s policy under UK GAAP.  This led to an increase in the net deferred tax
liability of £46.0m as at 31 March 2005 (2004 - £44.3m).  In addition, under IFRS, a provision of £1.5m (2004 - £2.7m) was made in respect of
temporary timing differences.  The impact of applying IAS 12 was to decrease profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 by £0.5m.
• IFRS 3 Business Combinations
Under UK GAAP, goodwill was required to be amortised over its estimated useful economic life.  On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill is
frozen and no future amortisation is charged.  However, the goodwill is subject to a mandatory impairment test at least annually and otherwise if
there is an indication of impairment.  Goodwill amortisation of £2.1m for the year ended 31 March 2005 was reversed in the income statement
under IFRS.
• IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date
Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed after the balance sheet date were accrued in the balance sheet.  Under IFRS, final dividends are not
recorded until the date they are approved by the Company’s shareholders.  Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
This adjustment, which is only a timing difference, increased Group net assets by £33.8m at 31 March 2005 (2004 - £32.3m).
• IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments
IAS 39 requires the fair value of derivatives including foreign currency and commodity contracts and interest rate swap agreements to be
accounted for as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet.  The application of IAS 39 resulted in the recognition of derivative financial assets of
£7.2m (2004 - £3.3m) and liabilities of £18.1m (2004 - £16.2m), in both cases before deferred tax, at 31 March 2005.  IAS 39 had no impact
on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 as all derivatives were designated as effective hedges of future cash flows.
• IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Under UK GAAP, the income statements of foreign subsidiaries were translated to Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet
date.  Under IFRS, the income statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rates of exchange for the period.  The effect of
adopting IAS 21 on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 was to reduce profit by £0.3m (2004 - £nil).
• IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
The assets and liabilities of Sx3 were classified as held for sale at 31 March 2005 as the result of the criteria for disposal groups being applied.
The results of Sx3 for the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 have been included within discontinued operations in the income statement. Notes to the Accounts 86
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
IFRS reclassifications
In addition to the above adjustments, a number of reclassification adjustments have been made to the income statement and balance sheet.  
The principal reclassifications from UK GAAP to IFRS are:
• IAS 38 Intangible Assets
Under UK GAAP, capitalised software was included within tangible fixed assets.  Under IFRS, capitalised software that is not an integral part of the
related hardware is recorded as an intangible asset.  This reclassification had no effect on the amortisation of software costs for the year ended 31
March 2005.
• IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
Under IFRS, the current and non-current components of trade and other receivables/payables, provisions and deferred income are required to be
shown separately.  This was not a requirement under UK GAAP.
• IAS 12 Income Taxes
Under UK GAAP, deferred tax assets were netted against deferred tax liabilities.  Under IFRS, deferred tax assets are included in non-current
assets.
• IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments
Under UK GAAP, accrued interest was presented separately from the financial instrument to which it related.  Under IAS 39 the carrying value of
borrowings and derivative financial assets and liabilities includes accrued interest.
• IAS 7 Cash Flow Statement
The IFRS cash flow statement is presented in a different format from that required under UK GAAP with cash flows split into three categories -
operating activities, investing activities and financing activities.  The change in presentation has no net impact on the Group’s underlying cash
flows or business strategy.
In the cash flow statement under IFRS, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits and short-term
managed funds with maturity of three months or less.
• IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Under IFRS, the retranslation of net assets of foreign subsidiaries taken to the accumulated profits reserve for the year ended 31 March 2005 has
been reclassified within the foreign currency translation reserve. Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 87
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the Group Income Statement
Year ended 31 March 2005
IFRS adjustments
________________________________________________________________________________
IAS 19 IFRS 2 IAS 12 IFRS 3 IAS 21 IFRS 5
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
- Continuing operations 836.9 -- - - (1.5) - - 835.4
- Discontinued operations 106.8 - - - - - (106.8) - -
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
943.7 - - - - (1.5) (106.8) - 835.4
Operating costs (832.7) 3.8 0.7 - 2.1 1.1 92.6 0.3 (732.1)
- Continuing operations 99.4 4.0 0.1 - - (0.4) - 0.3 103.4
- Discontinued operations 13.8 (0.2) 0.6 - - - (14.2) - -
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
113.2 3.8 0.7 - - (0.4) (14.2) 0.3 103.4
Goodwill amortisation and impairment
- Continuing operations (0.2) - - - 0.1 - - - (0.1)
- Discontinued operations (2.0) - - - 2.0 - - - -
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
Operating profit 111.0 3.8 0.7 - 2.1 (0.4) (14.2) 0.3 103.3
Interest receivable 4.1 - - - - - (0.2) - 3.9
Finance costs (28.5) (2.8) - - - 0.1 0.3 - (30.9)
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
Net finance costs (24.4) (2.8) - - - 0.1 0.1 - (27.0)
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
Profit from continuing 
operations before tax charge 86.6 1.0 0.7 - 2.1 (0.3) (14.1) 0.3 76.3
Tax charge (18.5) (0.3) (0.2) (0.5) - - 4.2 - (15.3)
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
Profit from continuing 
operations after tax charge 68.1 0.7 0.5 (0.5) 2.1 (0.3) (9.9) 0.3 61.0
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from 
discontinued operations - - - - - - 9.9 - 9.9
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
Profit for the financial year 68.1 0.7 0.5 (0.5) 2.1 (0.3) - 0.3 70.9
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ _______ _________
*This column represents previously published results under UK GAAP in IFRS format
UK GAAP*
IFRS
Employee
benefits
Share-based
payments
Deferred
tax
Goodwill
amortisation
Foreign
exchange
Discontinued
operation
Other Notes to the Accounts 88
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the Group Balance Sheet
At 31 March 2005
IFRS adjustments
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
IAS 19 IFRS 2 IAS 12 IFRS 3 IAS 10 IAS 21 IAS 39 IFRS 5
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,001.3 (10.1) - - - - - - - (29.8) 0.3 961.7
Intangible assets 34.5 10.1 - - - 2.1 - - - (35.2) - 11.5
Trade and other receivables - 0.9 - - - - - - - (0.9) - -
Financial assets:
Derivative financial assets - - - - - - - - 1.4 - - 1.4
Other financial assets 11.3 -- - - - - - - - - 11.3
Pension prepayment 8.9 -(8.9) - - - - - - - - -
Deferred tax asset - 16.6 50.9 0.2 3.4 - - - 2.4 (3.0) - 70.5
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
1,056.0 17.5 42.0 0.2 3.4 2.1 - - 3.8 (68.9) 0.3 1,056.4
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
Current assets 
Inventories 9.8 -- - - - - - - (2.8) - 7.0
Trade and other receivables 166.1 (0.9) - - - - - - - (35.5) - 129.7
Financial assets: 
Derivative financial assets - - - - - - - - 5.8 - - 5.8
Other financial assets 1.2 -- - - - - - - - - 1.2
Cash and cash equivalents 86.6 -- - - - - - - (7.5) - 79.1
Assets held for sale included in 
disposal groups - - - - - - - - - 114.7 - 114.7
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
263.7 (0.9) - - - - - - 5.8 68.9 - 337.5
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
TOTAL ASSETS 1,319.7 16.6 42.0 0.2 3.4 2.1 - - 9.6 - 0.3 1,393.9
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 230.9 (9.1) 1.1 (0.6) - -(33.8) - - (36.8) - 151.7
Current tax payable 29.0 -- - - - - - - (2.8) - 26.2
Deferred income - 28.8 - - - - - - - (22.2) - 6.6
Financial liabilities: 
Derivative financial liabilities - - - - - - - - 5.2 - - 5.2
Other financial liabilities 7.4 6.8 - - - - - - - (1.4) - 12.8
Short-term provisions - 9.2 - - - - - - - (0.5) - 8.7
Liabilities included in 
disposal groups - - - - - - - - - 82.3 - 82.3
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
267.3 35.7 1.1 (0.6) - - (33.8) - 5.2 18.6 - 293.5
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables - 2.3 - - - - - - - (2.3) - -
Deferred tax liabilities 82.7 16.6 - - 50.9 - - - 0.9 (0.7) - 150.4
Deferred income 186.6(28.8) - - - - - - - (6.0) - 151.8
Financial liabilities: 
Derivative financial liabilities - - - - - - - - 12.9 - - 12.9
Other financial liabilities 439.1 - - - - - - - (2.1) - 437.0
Long-term provisions 42.7 (9.2) - - - - - - - - - 33.5
Pension liability - - 168.6 - - - - - - (7.5) - 161.1
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
751.1(19.1) 168.6 - 50.9 - - - 13.8 (18.6) - 946.7
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,018.4 16.6 169.7 (0.6) 50.9 - (33.8) - 19.0 - - 1,240.2
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
NET ASSETS 301.3 - (127.7) 0.8 (47.5) 2.1 33.8 - (9.4) - 0.3 153.7
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
Equity
Share capital 33.4 -- - - - - - - - - 33.4
Share premium 13.2 -- - - - - - - - - 13.2
Hedge reserve - -- - - - - - (9.4) - - (9.4)
Foreign currency translation reserve - (0.1) - - - - - 0.3 - - - 0.2
Accumulated profits 254.7 0.1 (127.7) 0.8 (47.5) 2.1 33.8 (0.3) - - 0.3 116.3
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
TOTAL EQUITY 301.3 - (127.7) 0.8 (47.5) 2.1 33.8 - (9.4) - 0.3 153.7
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
_________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _______ _________
*This column represents previously published results under UK GAAP in IFRS format
UK GAAP*
IFRS
Employee
benefits
IFRS
reclassification
Share-based
payments
Deferred
tax
Goodwill
amortisation
Dividends
Foreign
exchange
Financial
instruments
Discontinued
operations
Other Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Notes to the Accounts 89
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the Group Balance Sheet
At 1 April 2004
IFRS adjustments
__________________________________________________________________________________
IAS 19 IFRS 2 IAS 12 IFRS 3 IAS 10 IAS 39
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 967.8 (5.6)- - - -- - 962.2
Intangible assets 39.0 5.6 - - - - - - 44.6
Trade and other receivables - 1.0 - - - - - - 1.0
Financial assets:
Derivative financial assets - - - - - - - 0.5 0.5
Other financial assets 12.4 -- - - - - - 12.4
Pension prepayment 8.9 - (8.9) - - - - - -
Deferred tax asset - 12.1 50.9 0.4 2.5 - - 2.1 68.0
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
1,028.1 13.1 42.0 0.4 2.5 - - 2.6 1,088.7
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Current assets
Inventories 13.9 -- - - - - - 13.9
Trade and other receivables 138.8 (1.0)- - - -- - 137.8
Financial assets:
Derivative financial assets - - - - - - - 2.8 2.8
Other financial assets 1.5 -- - - - - - 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents 58.1 -- - - - - - 58.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
212.3 (1.0)- - - -- 2.8 214.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL ASSETS 1,240.4 12.1 42.0 0.4 2.5 - - 5.4 1,302.8
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 211.9 (9.8) 1.1 0.7 - - (32.3) - 171.6
Current tax payable 28.8 -- - - - - - 28.8
Deferred income - 20.7 - - - - - - 20.7
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities - - - - - - - 5.1 5.1
Other financial liabilities 5.7 6.7 - - - - - - 12.4
Short-term provisions - 5.0 - - - - - - 5.0
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
246.4 22.6 1.1 0.7 - - (32.3) 5.1 243.6
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables - 3.1 - - - - - - 3.1
Deferred tax liabilities 83.0 12.1 - - 49.5 - - 0.4 145.0
Deferred income 166.6(20.7)- - - -- - 145.9
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities - - - - - - - 11.1 11.1
Other financial liabilities 435.1 -- - - - - - 435.1
Long-term provisions 32.3 (5.0)- - - -- - 27.3
Pension liability - - 168.6 - - - - - 168.6
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
717.0 (10.5) 168.6 - 49.5 - - 11.5 936.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 963.4 12.1 169.7 0.7 49.5 - (32.3) 16.6 1,179.7
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
NET ASSETS 277.0 - (127.7) (0.3) (47.0) - 32.3 (11.2) 123.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
Equity
Share capital 33.3 -- - - - - - 33.3
Share premium 10.0 -- - - - - - 10.0
Hedge reserve - - - - - - - (11.2) (11.2)
Accumulated profits 233.7 - (127.7) (0.3) (47.0) - 32.3 - 91.0
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
TOTAL EQUITY 277.0 - (127.7) (0.3) (47.0) - 32.3 (11.2) 123.1
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
__________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________ __________
*This column represents previously published results under UK GAAP in IFRS format
UK GAAP*
IFRS
IFRS
reclassification
Employee
benefits
Share-based
payments
Deferred
tax
Goodwill
amortisation
Dividends
Financial
instruments Notes to the Accounts 90
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
IFRS Summary of impact on the Company
Detailed reconciliations of the Company’s balance sheets as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 under IFRS to the results and financial position
previously reported under UK GAAP are set out on pages 91 and 92.
IFRS adjustments
The adjustments that have been made to the Company figures as previously reported under UK GAAP are explained below:
• IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date
This adjustment in respect of dividends proposed after the balance sheet date, which is described more fully above, is only a timing difference and
increased net assets by £33.8m at 31 March 2005 (2004 - £19.4m).
• IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments
This adjustment, which is described more fully above, results in the recognition of derivative financial assets of £0.2m (2004 - £0.2m) and liabilities
of £0.8m (2004 - £0.7m), in both cases before deferred tax, at 31 March 2005.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Shareholder Information 91
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the Company Balance Sheet
At 31 March 2005
IFRS adjustments
_____________________________________________________________________
Financial
Dividends instruments
UK GAAP* IAS 10 IAS 39 IFRS
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 697.0 -- 697.0
Deferred tax assets - - 0.2 0.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
697.0 - 0.2 697.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 1.9 -- 1.9
Other financial assets 78.3 -- 78.3
Cash and cash equivalents 59.5 -- 59.5
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
139.7 -- 139.7
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL ASSETS 836.7 - 0.2 836.9
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 35.8 (33.8) - 2.0
Current tax payable 2.2 -- 2.2
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities - - 0.2 0.2
Other financial liabilities 164.2 -- 164.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
202.2 (33.8) 0.2 168.6
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities: 
Derivative financial liabilities - - 0.6 0.6
Other financial liabilities 39.1 -- 39.1
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
39.1 - 0.6 39.7
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 241.3 (33.8) 0.8 208.3
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
NET ASSETS 595.4 33.8 (0.6) 628.6
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Equity
Share capital 33.4 -- 33.4
Share premium 13.2 -- 13.2
Merger reserve 442.9 -- 442.9
Hedge reserve - -(0.6) (0.6)
Accumulated profits 105.9 33.8 - 139.7
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL EQUITY 595.4 33.8 (0.6) 628.6
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
*This column represents previously published results under UK GAAP in IFRS format Notes to the Accounts 92
34. Explanation of Transition to IFRS (continued)
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the Company Balance Sheet
At 1 April 2004
IFRS adjustments
_____________________________________________________________________
Financial
Dividends Instruments
UK GAAP* IAS 10 IAS 39 IFRS
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 697.0 -- 697.0
Deferred tax assets - - 0.2 0.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
697.0 - 0.2 697.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 1.3 -- 1.3
Other financial assets 108.8 (12.9) - 95.9
Cash and cash equivalents 36.1 -- 36.1
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
146.2 (12.9) - 133.3
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL ASSETS 843.2 (12.9) 0.2 830.5
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 32.9 (32.3) - 0.6
Current tax payable 4.8 -- 4.8
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities - - 0.2 0.2
Other financial liabilities 144.8 -- 144.8
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
182.5 (32.3) 0.2 150.4
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities:
Derivative financial liabilities - - 0.5 0.5
Other financial liabilities 39.3 -- 39.3
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
39.3 - 0.5 39.8
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 221.8 (32.3) 0.7 190.2
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
NET ASSETS 621.4 19.4 (0.5) 640.3
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
Equity
Share capital 33.3 -- 33.3
Share premium 10.0 -- 10.0
Merger reserve 442.9 -- 442.9
Hedge reserve - -(0.5) (0.5)
Accumulated profits 135.2 19.4 - 154.6
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
TOTAL EQUITY 621.4 19.4 (0.5) 640.3
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
___________ ___________ ___________ ___________
*This column represents previously published results under UK GAAP in IFRS format Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Shareholder Information 93
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholder Enquiries
All enquiries about individual shareholder matters should be
made to the Registrars at:
Capita Registrars
Shareholder Services Department
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU 
Shareholder helpline: 0870 162 3100
Shareholder fax: 020 8639 2342
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
The Registrars will deal with any queries regarding:
shareholdings; dividends; lost share certificates; change of
name or address or death of a shareholder.  All correspondence
should be clearly marked “Viridian Group PLC” and quote the
full name and address in which the shares are registered. 
On-line Shareholder Services
Shareholders can access the following on-line services:
• Share dealing service 
• Access to personal shareholding (including transaction
history)
• Change of address
• Record or alter a dividend mandate instruction
• Download forms
• Share valuations and market information
• Access to frequently asked questions
To find out more about these services and to register simply log
on to www.shareholder.viridiangroup.co.uk and follow the
instructions.  When you register as a new user, a letter will be
despatched to your registered address with your one-off
activation code which is required for the first time you log on to
this service.  
Share Dealing Service
Capita IRG Trustees Ltd provide a quick and easy share dealing
service.  On-line and telephone dealing facilities are available to
buy or sell the Company’s ordinary shares.  For further
information, or to buy or sell shares, contact:
On-line dealing: www.capitadeal.com
Telephone dealing: 0870 458 4577
Dividend Payments
Arrangements can be made for the payment of any future
dividends directly into a bank or building society account by
writing to the Registrars at the above address stating the name
and address of the bank/building society, the sort code and
account number.  Alternatively, you will find a form of mandate
attached to your last dividend mailing which you may complete
and return to the Registrars.  
AGM
The AGM will be held in The King’s Hall Exhibition and
Conference Centre, Belfast BT9 6GW on 7 July 2006 at 
10.00 am.  The Notice and explanatory notes in relation to the
meeting are enclosed.
Key Dates
7 July 2006 AGM
4 August 2006 Record date for final dividend
8 September 2006 Payment of final dividend (26.61p)
14 November 2006 Announcement of interim results for
2006/07
May 2007 Preliminary announcement of results for 
2006/07
ShareGift
ShareGift (registered charity no 1052686) is an independent
charity which specialises in accepting donations of small
holdings of shares.  It may be especially useful for shareholders
who have shares which are uneconomic to sell and would like
to dispose of them for the benefit of UK charities.  There are 
no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of
shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income 
tax relief.  Further information can be obtained by calling 
020 7828 1151, writing to The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 
46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN or visiting
www.sharegift.org.
Unsolicited Mail
As the Company’s share register is open to public inspection,
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations
which use it as a mailing list.  You can limit the amount of
unsolicited mail you receive by registering with the Mailing
Preference Service.  You can register on-line at
www.mpsonline.org.uk or request an application form by 
calling 0845 703 4599 or writing to Mailing Preference Service,
Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.  You may, however,
continue to receive mail from organisations which do not
support this service.
Private (including employees) (26.70%)
Private / Institutional shareholders
% of issued share capital
Institutions (73.30%)
10,001-49,999 (4.45%)
1-500 (17.38%)
Range of shareholders
% of issued share capital
501-10,000 (11.20%)
50,000+ (66.97%) Glossary of Terms 94
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
1992 Order Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992
1999 Act Electricity Regulation Act 1999
2002 Act Gas (Interim) (Regulation) Act 2002
2003 Electricity Directive Directive 2003/54/EC of the
European Parliament and of the
Council of 26 June 2003
2003 Order Energy (Northern Ireland) Order
2003
ABI Association of British Insurers
AGM Annual General Meeting
BGE Bord Gáis Éireann
BSI British Standards Institute
BST Bulk Supply Tariff
CBO contract buy-out
CCGT combined-cycle gas turbine
CER Commission for Energy Regulation
CHP combined heat and power
CIP Co-investment Plan
CML average number of minutes lost per
customer per annum through supply
interruptions excluding major storms
CO
2
carbon dioxide 
Code Combined Code on Corporate
Governance
Company Viridian Group PLC
CPP Complementary Pension Plan
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DCMNR Department of Communications,
Marine and Natural Resources in
the RoI
DETI Department of Enterprise, Trade and
Investment in Northern Ireland
DNO distribution network operator
EIB European Investment Bank
Eirgrid ESB National Grid
Electricity Infrastructure T&D and Powerteam
ENA Electricity Network Association
ESB Electricity Supply Board
ESCo Energy Services Company
ETS EU Emissions Trading Scheme
FGD flue gas desulphurisation
Focus defined benefits section of VGPS
FPESA fuel purchase and energy sale
agreement
FRC Financial Reporting Council
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles
Group Viridian Group PLC and its
subsidiary undertakings
GWh gigawatt hour
HFO heavy fuel oil
HMRC HM Revenue & Customs
HSENI Health & Safety Executive for
Northern Ireland
Huntstown 1 Phase one of Huntstown Power
Station – 343MW CCGT
Huntstown 2 Phase two of Huntstown Power
Station – 400MW CCGT
IAS International Accounting Standard
IFRIC International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting
Standards
IIP Investors in People
IPC Integrated Pollution Control
IPPC Directive Integrated Pollution Prevention and
Control Directive (96/61/EC)
KPI key performance indicator
LCP Large Combustion Plant
Licence NIE’s Transmission and Public
Electricity Supply licence
LTIR lost time incident rate
Minister Minister for Communications,
Marine and Natural Resources in
the RoI
Moyle Interconnector electricity interconnector between
Northern Ireland and Scotland
MW megawatt
NFFO Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation
NIAER Northern Ireland Authority for
Energy Regulation
NIE Northern Ireland Electricity plc
Northgate Northgate Information Solutions plc
NO
x
oxides of nitrogen
Options defined contribution section of 
VGPS
Orders Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 as amended by the Energy
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003
PES public electricity supply
PPA power purchase agreement
PPB Power Procurement Business
PPR performance planning and review
PSO public service obligation
PSP Performance Share Plan
RAB T&D regulatory asset base
ROCE return on capital employed
RoI Republic of Ireland
RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents
RPI Retail Price Index
RP3 T&D price control period April 2002
to March 2007
RP4 T&D price control period April 2007
to March 2012
SCC Supply Competition Code
SEE social, ethical and environmental
SEM Single Electricity Market
Sharesave Scheme savings related share option scheme
SIP Share Incentive Plan
SMART Sustainable Management of Assets
and Renewable Technologies
SME small to medium-sized enterprise
SMP system marginal price
SO
2
sulphur dioxide
SONI System Operator Northern Ireland
Limited
SSAP Statement of Standard Accounting 
Practice
SSS system support services
Sx3 Service and Systems Solutions
Limited 
T&D transmission and distribution
TSR total shareholder return
TWh terawatt hour
VGPS Viridian Group Pension Scheme
Viridian Viridian Group PLC
VP&E Viridian Power & Energy Notes Notes Viridian Group PLC,
Registered Office,
120 Malone Road,
Belfast BT9 5HT.
Registered in N.Ireland NI 33250
http://www.viridiangroup.co.uk
This document is printed on environmentally-kind paper.  The pulp used for
papermaking is obtained from responsibly farmed sources.  No hard woods from
rain forests are used.  The papermaking process is 100% chlorine free and the mill
operates on a closed water system with no direct discharge into rivers or the sea.
Designed by FireIMC
Printed by Heanor Gate Printing Limited 05-06
ANNUAL REVIEW
& Summary Financial Statement Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Contents 1
Page
Group Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 3
Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
Summary Financial Review 7
Board of Directors 9
Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 10
Summary Financial Statement 13
Independent Auditors' Statement 15
Shareholder Information 16
Contents Group Financial Highlights 2
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Underlying Business Results
• Pro-forma operating profit
1
increased 11% to £132.4m 
(2005 - £119.1m)
• Pro-forma earnings per share
2
increased 24% to 68.2p 
(2005 - 55.0p)
Statutory Results
• Revenue
3
increased to £976.8m (2005 - £835.4m)
• Operating profit
3
of £149.0m (2005 - £103.3m)
• Exceptional gain of £108.9m on disposal of Sx3
• Return of capital of £97.9m successfully completed
• Basic earnings per share
3
of 74.4p (2005 - 45.7p)
• A 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per share which,
together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, gives a total of
36.89p, a 4.9% increase over 2004/05
1
Based on continuing operations and regulated entitlement as described more
fully in the Financial Review.
2
Pre deferred tax and based on continuing operations and regulated
entitlement as described more fully in the Financial Review.
3
Based on continuing operations.
All references in this document to “Group” denote Viridian Group PLC and its
subsidiary undertakings and to “Company” denote Viridian Group PLC, the parent
company.
Dipesh Shah
Chairman (non-executive)
Patrick Haren
Group Chief Executive
Patrick Bourke
Group Finance Director
Harry McCracken
Group Managing Director Viridian Power & Energy
Laurence MacKenzie
Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Chairman’s Statement 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DIPESH SHAH
I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a very good set
of results.  Our regulated businesses in Northern Ireland have each
delivered strong performances while meeting the demands of their
price controls.  Viridian Power & Energy (VP&E) maintained high
availability from the Huntstown 1 plant, construction of Huntstown 2
has started and remains on target for commissioning in autumn
2007 and Energia continues to grow its supply position, particularly
in the Republic of Ireland (RoI).  Powerteam also increased its
contribution to the Group’s results during the year.  
In December 2005, the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy
Regulation (NIAER) published initial proposals for the next price
control for the Transmission & Distribution (T&D) business which will
be effective from April 2007 to March 2012.  The proposals reflect a
period of constructive dialogue with NIAER aimed at delivering a
price control which strengthens efficiency incentives and gives a
balanced outcome for customers and shareholders.  We expect
NIAER to issue final proposals shortly.
We realised an exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of £108.9m.  The
£97.9m return of capital to shareholders, announced in conjunction
with the disposal of Sx3, was successfully completed.
Our strategy is strongly focused on our energy businesses in Ireland:
• Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) - maximising the efficiency of
our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our
business; and
• VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in
competitive markets across Ireland.
Our goal remains to deliver shareholder value through consistent
performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Financial Results
The Group’s annual results have been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the first time, with prior
year comparatives restated.
Revenue from continuing operations increased from £835.4m to
£976.8m due to increased revenue from NIE and VP&E.
Pro-forma operating profit from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement) increased by 11% from £119.1m to £132.4m.
Pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement and pre deferred tax) increased by 24% to
68.2p (2005 - 55.0p), reflecting the increase in pro-forma operating
profit, a lower net finance charge and a higher tax charge as well as
the effect of the 9 for 10 share consolidation implemented with the
return of capital.  In line with the treatment adopted in previous
years (and as further explained in the Summary Financial Review),
pro-forma operating profit and earnings per share exclude the effect
of either over- or under-recovery of NIE’s regulated entitlement. 
Net debt decreased to £310.0m at 31 March 2006 from £366.7m at
31 March 2005.
Dividends
We recommend a 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per
share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, amounts
to a total of 36.89p for the year, a 4.9% increase on last year.  This
is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across
the current T&D regulatory period.
Board
John Biles, formerly Finance Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a
non-executive director in August 2005.  In October 2005, he was
appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.  In March 2006,
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure,
joined the Board as an executive director, having been a member of
the Executive Committee since 2003.  Both are already making a
significant contribution to the Board.   
Employees
I would like to highlight again the individual commitment and
performance of our employees.  The Group’s continuing success is
dependent on them.  Across the Group, they have continued to work
hard, effectively and with dedication, while implementing significant
change.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our
employees for their valued input throughout the past year.
Looking Forward
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of
our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this year’s
results. Companies across the Group are preparing for the challenge
of the Single Electricity Market (SEM), the new all-island wholesale
market, in 2007.  We await the final T&D price control proposals
from NIAER.  VP&E is growing its customer base in anticipation of
the commissioning of Huntstown 2.  
Dipesh J. Shah
23 May 2006 Group Chief Executive’s Review 4
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PATRICK HAREN
The Group has delivered a strong set of results with pro-forma
operating profit from continuing operations (based on regulated
entitlement) increasing from £119.1m to £132.4m.
NIE’s businesses have each delivered strong performances.  NIE’s
focus remains on cost reduction and efficiency while also ensuring
quality of service to our customers.
NIAER’s review of T&D’s next price control, which takes effect from
April 2007, is well underway following the publication of initial
proposals in December 2005 and we await final proposals.  We 
also await the outcome of NIAER’s review of the price controls for
Power Procurement Business (PPB) and the transmission system
operator, SONI, which were both due to be reset with effect from 
1 April 2006.
VP&E’s profit contribution for the year reduced slightly to £24.1m
(2005 - £25.0m) due to lower operating margins for Energia, offset
by higher sales volumes and an active trading strategy in the winter
period.  Energia now has 22,400 (2005 - 15,300) business
customers across Ireland, this growth coming from customers in the
small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) sector.
The SEM, the new all-island electricity wholesale market, is
scheduled to start in July 2007.  SONI is working with its RoI
counterpart, ESB National Grid (Eirgrid), NIAER and the Commission
for Energy Regulation (CER) in the RoI to set up the new market.
Other Group businesses are actively participating in consultations on
the market design and rules as well as reviewing their own
processes and systems to identify any changes required.
Northern Ireland Electricity
Transmission and Distribution
T&D revenues (based on regulated entitlement) increased by £0.9m
mainly due to higher income associated with the recovery of market
opening costs, offset by lower price control revenues.  Based on
regulated entitlement, T&D reported profits of £83.2m compared to
£73.9m last year.  Profits benefited from a change in the method of
depreciation for infrastructure assets which brings T&D into line with
the majority of UK distribution network operators (DNOs).  Before 
31 March 2005, T&D infrastructure assets were depreciated at 3%
per annum for the first 20 years followed by 2% per annum for the
remaining 20 years.  Since 1 April 2005, new assets are being
depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years and existing assets
on a straight-line basis over their remaining life.  This change
resulted in a reduction of £4.5m in T&D’s depreciation charge from
what it otherwise would have been.  Profits also benefited from
reductions in operating costs and the absence of certain
restructuring and reorganisation costs incurred last year.  In
particular, cost savings were achieved as a result of centralising
customer call handling at our distribution control centre in
Craigavon; this included the transfer to T&D of some services
previously provided by Sx3.  Cost efficiencies also resulted from a
lower headcount.
While we continually exert downward pressure on T&D’s costs, this
is not at the expense of standards of service to our customers.
During the year, all the overall standards set by NIAER were
achieved and there were no defaults against the guaranteed
standards.  We fully recognise our responsibility to maintain and
operate a safe and reliable network. 
We continue to make substantial investment in our infrastructure
assets.  Network capital expenditure in the year ended 31 March
2006 was in line with the regulatory allowance.  Total capital
expenditure (before customer contributions), including expenditure
on customer service systems, other non-network assets and new
systems required to support market opening in Northern Ireland,
was £73.5m (2005 - £72.5m).  The T&D regulatory asset base
(RAB) at 31 March 2006 was £783m (2005 - £754m).
In December 2005, NIAER published initial proposals for the next
T&D price control, which will be effective from April 2007 to March
2012 (RP4).  The key aspects of the proposals are described below:
Rate of return - NIAER proposes to adopt the precedent established
in the 2005 DNO review for the post tax rate of return to be allowed
on the distribution portion of T&D’s RAB (which is taken to represent
82% of the overall RAB) but to apply a lower rate to the 18%
representing the transmission portion.  This results in a blended rate
of 4.78% post tax real.  This compares to the existing rate of return
of 4.55% post tax real (corresponding to 6.5% pre tax real).
The proposed rate of return for the distribution portion of the RAB
would either decrease or remain unchanged for the last two years of
RP4 depending on the outcome of the next DNO review in 2010.
The rate of return on the transmission portion would remain
unchanged.
Controllable costs - the allowance for each year of RP4 would be set
equal to the RPI-indexed level of actual costs incurred during the
corresponding year in RP3 (April 2002 - March 2007).  This is
subject to some specific reductions in 2007/08 and 2008/09 and
also a small disallowance in respect of early retirement pension
deficiency costs.
The allowance for controllable costs would be further reduced if the
T&D price in any year of RP4 would otherwise exceed a price cap of
1.81p/kWh (in 2004/05 prices).
Capital expenditure - T&D has proposed capital expenditure of
£326m in RP4 compared to £257m in the current price control
period (both figures in 2004/05 prices).  This investment is driven by
the need to replace worn assets and to meet continued growth in
customer demand.  These proposals have been the subject of review
during the early part of 2006 by consultants appointed by NIAER.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Group Chief Executive’s Review 5
Other - NIE would be committed to funding a £1m vulnerable
customer fund to help alleviate fuel poverty in Northern Ireland and
a further £1m to fund research focused on identifying the best long-
term options for development of the T&D network to accommodate
Government objectives on sustainability.  These costs would be
funded from NIE’s own resources.
NIAER outlined in the initial proposals that it expected to issue final
proposals in spring 2006; we await these shortly.
Power Procurement/SONI
Profits from PPB and SONI (based on regulated entitlement)
increased to £9.8m (2005 - £7.2m), reflecting increased entitlement
earned by PPB under its trading incentive together with the recovery
of certain costs which were provided for last year.  PPB’s
contribution from trading has been strong this year as the result 
of operational difficulties at the independent Coolkeeragh 
combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant, which we do not 
expect to be repeated.
SONI is working jointly with Eirgrid, NIAER and CER to implement
the SEM.  The principal steps are: establishing a single market
operator through a contractual joint venture between SONI and
Eirgrid; setting up the necessary operational and commercial
interfaces between the two companies in their roles as transmission
system operator in each jurisdiction; and procuring the IT systems
required to operate the new market.  The capital costs are being
split 25% SONI, 75% Eirgrid.  SONI is receiving a rate of return on
its costs of 6.5% pre tax real.
NIE Supply
NIE Supply’s profits (based on regulated entitlement) increased to
£7.4m (2005 - £6.8m) due to lower operating costs and increased
incentive income from the administration of energy efficiency
programmes.  The business is making good progress in delivering
specific commitments linked to its price control in the areas of
keypad meter installation and the promotion of energy efficiency and
micro-renewables.  NIE Supply’s price control is due to be reset with
effect from 1 April 2007; we will be seeking to extend it by
agreement with NIAER.
Powerteam
Powerteam made steady progress during the year increasing its
profits to £4.6m (2005 - £3.8m) due to an increase in internal
income and improved margins; its main focus continues to be on
costs to T&D.  Over the last three years Powerteam’s external
business has been underpinned by a framework contract awarded in
June 2003 for the refurbishment of Electricity Supply Board’s (ESB)
medium voltage network.  This contract is due to end in June 2006.
Powerteam is developing new revenue streams including further
work with ESB, contracts for the installation of windfarms in Ireland
and overhead line and substation contracts in Great Britain.
Viridian Power & Energy
VP&E has delivered a sound performance in the year.  Revenue
increased from £272.3m to £381.1m primarily due to volume growth
in the RoI, higher prices associated with rising fuel costs and sales
to gas customers.  Operating profit reduced slightly to £24.1m (2005
- £25.0m).
Generation
Huntstown 1 has performed well during 2005/06 achieving
availability (after both planned and unplanned outages) of 93.9%
(2005 - 92.5%).  The plant responded well to flexible despatch at
certain periods during the winter, as provided for in its design for
open-cycle as well as combined-cycle operation.  In April 2006,
Huntstown 1 incurred an unplanned outage lasting 19 days to repair
damage caused by a failed heat shield in the gas turbine.  This work
was successfully completed at the beginning of May.
At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1’s gas requirements for the seven
month period to October 2006 were c90% hedged.  We await the
outcome of CER’s consultation on tariff-setting mechanisms for
calendar year 2007 before taking any decisions on hedging beyond
October 2006.  At 31 March 2006, Huntstown 1’s requirements for
CO
2
emission credits were fully covered for the year ending 
31 March 2007 by forward purchase contracts. 
The construction programme for Huntstown 2 is on track for
commissioning in autumn 2007 with capital expenditure of €27m as
at 31 March 2006.  Civil engineering works have proceeded well and
the main equipment is due to arrive on site during summer 2006.
Supply
In Northern Ireland, Energia’s sales increased from 1.5TWh to
1.6TWh, with customer sites maintained at 3,800 (2005 - 3,800)
notwithstanding some pressure on prices as the output from the new
Coolkeeragh CCGT was sold into the market.  Energia plans to
maintain its current level of volume sales in Northern Ireland. 
In the RoI, Energia increased its sales from 3.1TWh to 3.9TWh, with
customer sites increasing to 18,600 (2005 - 11,500), primarily
among SMEs.  Energia is growing its customer base to absorb the
future output of Huntstown 2. 
As indicated in the interim results, Energia has experienced pressure
on operating margins following the setting of electricity tariffs by CER
in the RoI for calendar year 2006, against a background of high gas
prices.  The effect of this has been partly offset by increased sales
and an active trading strategy.  The latter involved, inter alia,
increased purchases of electricity from ESB on a regulated
wholesale tariff at times of very high gas prices and additional
income from Huntstown 1 when despatched to meet system security
in the RoI. Group Chief Executive’s Review 6
We are making an active input into CER’s current consultations on
the appropriate level of RoI tariffs for calendar year 2007.  These
tariffs, which are published by ESB following agreement with CER,
set the benchmark for contracts between suppliers (such as
Energia) and customers participating in the competitive market.  We
expect the process to be challenging, given the level of forward gas
prices for winter 2006/07 and the planned introduction of the SEM
halfway through the tariff year.  We expect tariff proposals for the
first six months of 2007 to be issued at the beginning of September
followed by a final announcement in early October.
During the year, Energia started to supply a number of large
customers in the RoI with gas, generating revenues of £11m (14m
therms); annualised volume is c23m therms.
Renewable energy
Since 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland have been
required to source a proportion of their supply from renewable
generation.  Energia currently has 33MW of windfarm capacity
under contract and is aiming to negotiate further contracts with
windfarm developers, either as offtake arrangements, or through
direct investment where projected returns are appropriate.
Windfarm development in Northern Ireland has been slower than
expected as a result of planning delays.
In April 2005 the RoI government announced details of a new
support mechanism for renewable energy.  Under the mechanism,
renewable generators will contract with suppliers at a fixed price 
and suppliers will benefit from support payments levied across all
customers.  Energia is assessing offtake contracts with windfarm
developers under this scheme, which only received final approval 
on 2 May 2006. 
Other Activities
Other profits of £3.9m (2005 - £2.5m) benefited from the 
disposal of property.  We do not anticipate any further significant
property disposals.
Patrick Haren
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Summary Financial Review 7
International Financial Reporting Standards
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 March 2005,
the Group prepared its annual report and accounts in accordance
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  For the year
ended 31 March 2006 the Group’s results have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS with prior year comparatives restated.
Summary of Financial Performance
Group pro-forma operating profit increased from £119.1m to
£132.4m.  The calculation of Group pro-forma operating profit is
shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Group statutory operating profit 149.0 103.3
(Deduct)/add back:
-  (over)/under-recovery of 
regulated entitlement (16.6) 15.8
____________ ____________
Group pro-forma operating profit 132.4 119.1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
NIE pro-forma operating profit increased from £88.8m to £101.0m
mainly due to increased operating profits from T&D and PPB.  The
calculation of NIE pro-forma operating profit is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
NIE statutory operating profit 117.6 73.0
(Deduct)/add back:
-  (over)/under-recovery of 
regulated entitlement (16.6) 15.8
____________ ____________
NIE pro-forma operating profit 101.0 88.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
NIE’s statutory profits include the effect of over- or under-recovery.
The directors believe that the most appropriate measure of NIE's
performance in a given year is its profit based on regulated
entitlement i.e. excluding the effect of over- or under-recovery.  
In the financial years ended 31 March 2004 and 2005, NIE’s
regulated businesses incurred net under-recoveries of £9.5m and
£15.8m respectively against the income to which they were entitled
giving a cumulative under-recovery of £25.3m at 31 March 2005.
Following the over-recovery of £16.6m in the year ended 31 March
2006, there is a net cumulative under-recovery of £8.7m at 31
March 2006.  This net under-recovery is expected to be recovered in
tariffs for 2006/07.
VP&E’s profits reduced slightly from £25.0m to £24.1m primarily
due to lower operating margins, offset by higher sales volumes and
an active trading strategy in the winter period. 
The Group's net finance costs decreased from £27.0m to £19.3m,
reflecting lower net debt levels, a lower net pension scheme interest
charge and a one-off £1.6m credit in respect of interest received 
on deferred consideration from previous disposals repaid during 
the year.  Net debt at the end of the year was £310.0m (2005 -
£366.7m).
Interest cover increased from 4.4 times to 6.3 times. The calculation
of interest cover is shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March £m £m
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Group pro-forma operating profit 132.4 119.1
Net finance costs 19.3 27.0
Add back:
- release of provision held   
against interest receivable  
on deferred consideration 1.6 -
____________ ____________
Adjusted net finance costs 20.9 27.0
____________ ____________
Interest cover 6.3 times 4.4 times
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The total tax charge (including deferred tax) on continuing
operations increased to £36.2m (2005 - £15.3m). Excluding last
year's provision release of £4.5m, the total effective tax rate
increased from 26.0% to 27.9% mainly due to a higher proportion of
UK profits which are subject to a statutory tax rate of 30% compared
to 12.5% in the RoI. 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations reported in 
the Group Income Statement are 74.4p (2005 - 45.7p).  Pro-forma
earnings per share increased from 55.0p to 68.2p reflecting the
increase in pro-forma operating profit, a lower net finance charge
and a higher tax charge as well as the effect of the 9 for 10 share
consolidation implemented with the return of capital.  Pro-forma
earnings per share are reconciled to basic earnings per share as
shown below:
2006 2005
Year to 31 March pence pence
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations 74.4 45.7
(Deduct)/add back:
- (over)/under-recovery net of tax (9.2) 8.3
- deferred tax 3.0 1.0
____________ ____________
Pro-forma earnings per share 68.2 55.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
The recommended final dividend of 26.61p brings the total dividend
for the year to 36.89p, a 4.9% increase on 2004/05.  This dividend
is covered 1.8 times by pro-forma earnings per share (2005 - 1.6
times).  
Profit from discontinued operations of £110.9m (2005 - £9.9m)
comprises the exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of £108.9m, that
company’s post tax earnings (£0.2m) until its disposal on 25 April
2005, and a £1.8m provision release in respect of deferred
consideration from previous disposals received during the year.
Overall reported basic earnings per share from both continuing and
discontinued operations increased from 53.1p to 162.7p, reflecting
the exceptional gain.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL REVIEW Summary Financial Review 8
Net Pension Liability
The net pension liability, net of deferred tax, in the Group’s defined
benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, decreased to
£72.0m at 31 March 2006 from £112.8m at 31 March 2005
reflecting the special pension contribution of £25.0m (£17.5m net of
tax) made in July 2005 and a net actuarial gain of £31.5m (£22.0m
net of tax).
Notwithstanding the improvement in the net pension liability under
IAS 19, the Group has decided to increase its cash contributions in
respect of the past service liability from £6m per annum to £10m
per annum.  It also intends to make an additional special
contribution of £10m during 2006/07.  
The triennial actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme at 
31 March 2006 is underway and final results will be available later in
the year.
Return of Capital
The return of capital to shareholders and the associated 9 for 10
share capital consolidation, announced in conjunction with the
disposal of Sx3, were successfully effected through a B share
scheme in August 2005.  The return of capital amounted to 
£97.9m, with most shareholders electing for immediate payment
(£97.1m) and the remainder opting for a deferred payment in 
April 2006 (£0.8m).
Net Debt and Capital Structure
Cash generated from operations decreased from £193.8m to
£165.2m (£190.2m after adding back the special pension
contribution of £25.0m).
Net finance costs (excluding interest received of £1.6m on deferred
consideration relating to prior periods) decreased by £5.5m from
£23.5m to £18.0m reflecting lower net debt. Tax paid increased by
£6.8m from £18.6m to £25.4m reflecting increased profits.
Cash flows from investing activities increased by £149.3m from a
cash outflow of £81.4m to a cash inflow of £67.9m.  This primarily
reflects net proceeds from the disposal of Sx3 of £136.8m (including
loans disposed of) together with the receipt during the year of
deferred consideration from previous disposals (£13.5m), including
interest received of £1.6m on deferred consideration relating to prior
periods.  Cash outflow from the purchase of property, plant and
equipment decreased from £93.1m to £90.1m reflecting a reduction
in capital expenditure associated with Sx3, offset by an increase in
expenditure by NIE on new connections and expenditure on
Huntstown 2.
Cash outflows from financing activities increased by £88.6m from
£41.3m to £129.9m primarily reflecting the return of capital
(£97.1m). Dividends paid increased by £1.1m from £45.5m to
£46.6m.  
Net debt reduced by £56.7m from £366.7m at 31 March 2005 to
£310.0m at 31 March 2006.  Equity shareholders’ funds increased
from £153.7m at 31 March 2005 to £252.5m at 31 March 2006.   Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Board of Directors 9
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
* - independent non-executive director    A - member of Audit Committee    E - member of Executive Committee    N - member of Nomination Committee    R - member of Remuneration Committee
Dipesh Shah (aged 53), 
Chairman (non-executive) (N)
Appointed non-executive
Chairman in May 2005.
Appointed as a non-executive
director in November 2003.  Chief
Executive of the United Kingdom
Atomic Energy Authority.  Non-
executive director of Babcock
International Group PLC and
Oxfordshire Economic Partnership
Limited.  Until late 2002 held a
number of senior positions within
BP plc, latterly as Vice President
and General Manager,
Acquisitions and Divestments and
formerly as chief executive of
several businesses within BP plc.
Patrick Haren (aged 55), 
Group Chief Executive (E, N)
Appointed Group Chief Executive
in February 1998.  Joined NIE as
Chief Executive in 1992.  He is a
non-executive director of Invest
Northern Ireland, the economic
development agency.  Previously
Director of New Business
Investment with ESB in the RoI
and Chairman of ESB
International.
Patrick Bourke (aged 49), 
Group Finance Director (E)
Joined as Group Finance Director
in September 2000.  Previously
Head of Mergers and Acquisitions
and then Group Treasurer at
Powergen plc.  He was formerly a
director of Barclays de Zoete
Wedd and qualified as a
chartered accountant with Peat
Marwick (now KPMG).
Harry McCracken (aged 56), 
Group Managing Director 
Viridian Power & Energy (E)
Appointed Group Managing
Director VP&E in February 2003.
Previously Managing Director NIE
with responsibility for the Group’s
regulated electricity businesses.
Joined NIE in 1970 as an
engineer and progressed to
Corporate Planning Manager 
prior to appointment to the 
Board of NIE as Operations
Director in 1992.
Duncan Lewis (aged 55), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in February 2002.  He
chairs the Remuneration
Committee and is the Board’s
Senior Independent Director.
Senior Advisor in
Telecommunications, Media and
Technology to the Carlyle Group.
Non-executive chairman of
SINOTEL, AlanDick Ltd and
Euphony Holdings Ltd.  Non-
executive director of the British
Library.  Non-executive director
and chairman of the audit
committee of CompleTel nv.
Formerly President and Chief
Operating Officer of GTS Inc,
Managing Director of Equant nv,
Chief Executive of Granada Media
Group and held a number of
managing director and chief
executive positions at Cable and
Wireless.  
Laurence MacKenzie (aged 44),
Managing Director 
Electricity Infrastructure (E) 
Appointed as an executive director
in March 2006.  Managing Director
of NIE’s Electricity Infrastructure
business (including T&D and
Powerteam) and member of the
Executive Committee since 2003.
Joined as Managing Director of
Powerteam in September 2000.
Previously a general manager in
power transformer manufacturing
with ABB.  He qualified as a
chartered accountant with Peat
Marwick (now KPMG).
Mike Toms (aged 52), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in November 2003.  He
chaired the Audit Committee until
October 2005.  Group Director,
Planning and Regulatory Affairs
at BAA PLC since 2001 and a
member of its executive treasury
committee.  Non-executive
director of UK Coal PLC, a
member of the Governing Board
of the Airports Council
International and a director of the
Airport Property Partnership.
Formerly held the positions of
Chief Economist and Director of
Corporate Strategy at BAA plc. 
John Biles (aged 58), 
(* A, N, R)
Appointed as a non-executive
director in August 2005.  He has
chaired the Audit Committee since
October 2005.  Non-executive
director and chairman of the audit
committee at Charter plc,
Chapelthorpe plc, ArmorGroup
International plc and Hermes
Pensions Management Ltd.
Formerly Finance Director of FKI
plc having previously been Group
Financial Director of Chubb
Security Plc following its demerger
from Racal Electronics Plc (Racal)
in 1992.  Before this he held
various financial director positions
within Racal.  He qualified as a
chartered accountant with Price
Waterhouse and Co. Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 10
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s policy on executive directors’ remuneration for the
year ended 31 March 2006 was that the overall package should be
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality
executives capable of achieving the Group’s objectives and thereby
enhancing shareholder value.
The package consists of basic salary, benefits, performance-related
bonus, long-term incentive arrangements and pension benefits, with
a significant proportion based on performance and dependent upon
the achievement of corporate and individual targets.  Up to
approximately 70% of the total value of each executive director’s
remuneration package (excluding pension and benefits) is
performance-related in the event that the maximum amount 
of annual performance bonus and long-term incentive awards 
are achieved.  
This summary report sets out the Company’s policy on executive
directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2006 and, so
far as practicable, for subsequent years.  There are no plans to
change any elements of remuneration.  However, the Remuneration
Committee (the Committee) considers that a successful
remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account
of future changes in the Company’s business environment and in
remuneration practice.  
Basic salary and benefits
Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually taking account
of mid-market levels amongst FTSE mid-250 companies generally,
with a focus on a group of companies of a similar size in the
electricity, utilities, transport and support services sectors.  Other
benefits include a company car and fuel, or an equivalent cash-for-
car allowance, private health insurance and the value of matching
shares under the SIP.
Annual performance bonus
The annual performance bonus is a non-pensionable cash payment
for achieving targets set by the Committee.  The maximum bonus
opportunity for each executive director is 50% of basic salary, with
the level of bonus awarded depending on performance against
challenging corporate and individual targets.  35% is dependent
upon achieving a target pro-forma earnings per share and the
remaining 15% of the maximum bonus is linked to individual targets
agreed for each executive director by the Committee.  These
individual targets relate to the achievement of key business
objectives, both short-term and long-term, including the
development of new business opportunities and improvements in
operating efficiencies where appropriate.  The Committee reviews
targets and criteria annually to ensure appropriate measurement of
performance.  
Long-term incentive arrangements
Long-term incentive arrangements comprise the Performance Share
Plan (PSP) and the Co-investment Plan (CIP).
50% of a PSP award is based on the average return on capital
employed (ROCE) achieved by the Group and 50% is based on the
Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance relative to
the constituents of the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding investment
trusts), both over a three year performance period. 
For achieving the threshold level of performance, under both the
ROCE and the TSR elements, 25% of the maximum award will vest.
Maximum awards are for shares with a value equal to one year’s
salary at the date of the conditional award.  
The Committee has selected ROCE as it believes that this measure
captures both the Group’s business efficiency and its underlying
ability to provide returns to shareholders.  The Committee will review
the appropriate ROCE performance range to be set for each annual
grant of awards, taking account of the future plans and prospects of
the business.  
The other 50% of a PSP award is based on the Company’s TSR
relative to the constituents of the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding
investment trusts) over a three year period.  The minimum level of
award will vest if the Company’s performance is at the median level,
all of the shares will vest if the upper quartile is achieved and there
will be a sliding scale of vesting if the Company’s TSR performance
is between the median and the upper quartile of companies within
that Index.
Under the CIP, executive directors and participating senior managers
invest in the Company’s shares (investment shares) up to a
maximum value equal to the greater of 20% of gross annual salary
or 100% of gross performance bonus received. 
Provided that investment shares are retained for three years, and
provided also that participants remain in employment, they are
eligible for a matching share award.  The minimum award is one
share for every two investment shares i.e. a 50% match.  The level
of match can increase by up to one further share for every one
investment share subject to the same performance conditions as
those applying under the PSP.  Therefore, if the maximum level of
ROCE was achieved and the Company’s relative TSR was at or above
the upper quartile, there would be a maximum award of three
shares for every two investment shares i.e. a 150% match; there is a
sliding scale of matching awards to the extent that actual ROCE and
TSR performance are between the minimum and maximum levels.
SUMMARY DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 11
Pensions
Executive directors have a normal pension age of 60.  Patrick
Bourke, Patrick Haren and Harry McCracken participate in the
Company’s defined benefit pension scheme (Focus).  Prior to 6 April
2006, the pensionable earnings of Patrick Bourke and Patrick Haren
were capped by HM Revenue & Customs’ earnings cap and the
pension benefits were supplemented by the Complementary Pension
Plan (CPP).  They are expected to be affected by the individual
lifetime allowance for tax efficient benefit accrual under the Finance
Act 2004 and the Committee has decided to continue to make
pension provision within Focus supplemented by the CPP.  After 6
April 2006 a notional earnings cap will apply to benefits from Focus
and the CPP will provide benefits for salary above the cap in the
form of a retirement lump sum, with that part of the lump sum
attributable to contributions made to the CPP prior to 6 April 2006
being paid tax-free, as tax was settled at the date contributions were
made.
Laurence MacKenzie participates in the Company’s defined
contribution scheme. 
Service contracts
Executive directors have service contracts dated 3 July 2003 (with
the exception of Laurence MacKenzie’s which is dated 2 March
2006), which expire at age 60 and are terminable on 12 months’
notice by the Company and six months’ notice by the director.  
Performance Graph
The graph below compares the value of an investment of £100 in
the Company’s ordinary shares with an investment in the FTSE 350
Index (including investment trusts) over the five years starting 1 April
2001 assuming that all dividend income has been reinvested.  
The FTSE 350 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity
market index of which the Company is a constituent member.  
April
2001
April
2002
April
2003
April
2004
April
2005
April
2006
£60
£80
£100
£120
£140
£180
£200
Viridian Group PLC
FTSE 350 Index
£160
£220
Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2006 was as follows:
Basic salary/fees Benefits in kind Performance bonus Other emoluments Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Non-Executive Chairman
P Rogerson 6.7 80.0 - -- - - - 6.7 80.0
D Shah 85.0 27.5 - -- - - - 85.0 27.5
Executive Directors
P Bourke 230.0 210.0 16.8 15.7 115.0 105.0 147.1 50.0 508.9 380.7
P Haren 350.0 315.0 19.8 18.5 175.0 157.5 230.5 88.3 775.3 579.3
L MacKenzie 15.3 - 0.9 - 5.1 - - - 21.3 -
H McCracken 230.0 210.0 22.6 21.9 115.0 105.0 - - 367.6 336.9
Non-Executive Directors
J Biles 19.5 - - - - - - - 19.5 -
D Lewis 32.5 27.5 - - - - - - 32.5 27.5
D Smyth - 25.2 - - - - - - - 25.2
M Toms 31.3 27.5 - - - - - - 31.3 27.5
––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– ––––––––– –––––––––
Total 1,000.3 922.7 60.1 56.1 410.1 367.5 377.6 138.3 1,848.1 1,484.6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
Philip Rogerson retired as non-executive Chairman on 30 April 2005.  Dipesh Shah was appointed Chairman on 1 May 2005.  John Biles was appointed as a non-executive
director on 23 August 2005.  Laurence MacKenzie was appointed as an executive director on 2 March 2006.  Desmond Smyth’s term of office ended on 28 February 2005.  
The benefits in kind for each executive director comprise the provision of a company car and fuel or equivalent cash-for-car allowance, private health insurance and the
value of matching shares provided by the Company under the SIP.  Other emoluments principally comprise a discretionary bonus in respect of the benefit in kind tax liability
arising from contributions to the CPP.  The increase in other emoluments in 2005/06 reflects a special contribution made to the CPP to fund a deficiency in respect of pre 
6 April 2006 benefits and to cover the cost of insuring death in service benefits in order to deal with the change in the tax regime for pension schemes under the Finance
Act 2004. Summary Directors’ Remuneration Report 12
PSP and CIP
Contingent share awards under the PSP were granted to executive
directors during the year as follows: Patrick Haren - 43,695 shares
(2005 - 55,604), Patrick Bourke and Harry McCracken - 28,714
shares (2005 - 37,069).  The market value at the date of award was 
801 pence.
Matching share awards under the CIP were granted to executive
directors during the year as follows: Patrick Bourke - 6,070 shares,
Patrick Haren - 29,883 shares and Harry McCracken - 18,973
shares.  No matching share awards were made in 2004/5.
Conditional awards, under both the PSP and CIP, granted during the
year ended 31 March 2006 relate to the three year performance
period ending 31 March 2008 (awards under the PSP made 
during the year ended 31 March 2005 relate to the three year
performance period ending 31 December 2006).  Actual awards
under the PSP and CIP will be determined at the end of the 
relevant performance period.
The Committee reviewed TSR performance for the three year
performance period ended 31 December 2005 in relation to
contingent share awards under the PSP granted in 2003.  The
Company’s TSR was higher than the median ranking TSR
performance in the Comparator Group.  In accordance with the
terms of the contingent share award the Committee also considered
the Company’s underlying financial performance over the
performance period and was satisfied that no material discrepancy
existed.  As a result, 53.2% of the 2003 contingent share awards
were awarded to participants as follows: Patrick Haren - 29,972
shares, Patrick Bourke and Harry McCracken - 20,181 shares.  Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Summary Financial Statement 13
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2006
Important Note
The summary financial statement is only a summary of information
contained within the Group’s Annual Accounts, Directors’
Remuneration Report and the Directors’ Report.  This summary
financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow
for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of
affairs of the Company or of the Group and of their policies
concerning Directors’ remuneration.  For further information the full
annual accounts, the Auditors’ Report on those accounts and the
Directors’ Report should be consulted.
Copies of the Annual Report and Accounts are available, free of
charge, from the Company Secretary.
Summary Directors’ Report
Business review and future developments
A review of the business and future developments is set out on
pages 3 to 8.
Names of directors
The Board of directors is listed on page 9.
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions set out
in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the
Financial Reporting Council in 2003, throughout the year ended 
31 March 2006 apart from the provisions on the composition of the
Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Further explanation is given in the detailed report on corporate
governance contained in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Results and dividends
The results for the year ended 31 March 2006 show a profit after tax
of £204.4m.  An interim dividend of 10.28p per share was paid on
31 March 2006.  The directors recommend payment of a final
dividend of 26.61p per share resulting in total dividends for the year
of 36.89p per share. Summary Financial Statement 14
Summary Group Income Statement for year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 976.8 835.4
Operating costs (827.8) (732.1)
___________ ___________
OPERATING PROFIT 149.0 103.3
Interest receivable 10.4 3.9
Finance costs (29.7) (30.9)
Net finance costs (19.3) (27.0)
___________ ___________
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAX CHARGE 129.7 76.3
Tax charge (36.2) (15.3)
___________ ___________
PROFIT FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AFTER TAX CHARGE 93.5 61.0
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 110.9 9.9
___________ ___________
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE EQUITY 
HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY 204.4 70.9
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING AND 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (PENCE) 162.7 53.1
AGGREGATE DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS (£’000s) 1,848 1,485
Summary Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Non-current assets 1,082.7 1,056.4
Current assets 319.0 337.5
___________ ___________
TOTAL ASSETS 1,401.7 1,393.9
___________ ___________
Current liabilities 254.3 293.5
Non-current liabilities 894.9 946.7
___________ ___________
TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,149.2 1,240.2
___________ ___________
NET ASSETS 252.5 153.7
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
TOTAL EQUITY 252.5 153.7
___________ ___________
___________ ___________
The summary financial statement was approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 May 2006.  It was signed on
its behalf by:
Dipesh Shah Patrick Bourke
Chairman Group Finance Director
23 May 2006 Viridian Group PLC Annual Review 2005-2006
Independent Auditors’ Statement 15
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ STATEMENT
TO THE MEMBERS OF VIRIDIAN GROUP PLC
The Independent Auditors’ Report on the full financial statements for
the year ended 31 March 2006 was unqualified and did not contain
a statement under either Article 245 (2) or Article 245 (3) of the
Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986.
We have examined the Group’s summary financial statement for the
year ended 31 March 2006 which comprises the Summary Group
Income Statement and Summary Group Balance Sheet.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Article 259 of the Companies (Northern Ireland)
Order 1986.  To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company
and the Company’s members as a body for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of 
Directors and Auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and
Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency
of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and
Summary Financial Statement with the full annual financial
statements, Directors’ Report and Directors’ Remuneration Report,
and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Article 259 of
the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 and the regulations
made thereunder.  We also read the other information contained in
the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary
financial statement.
Basis of Opinion
We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6
“The auditors’ statement on the summary financial statement”
issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United
Kingdom.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with
the full annual financial statements, Directors’ Report and Directors’
Remuneration Report of Viridian Group PLC for the year ended 
31 March 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of
Article 259 of the Companies (Northern Ireland) Order 1986, and
regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Belfast
23 May 2006 Shareholder Information 16
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholder Enquiries
All enquiries about individual shareholder matters should be
made to the Registrars at:
Capita Registrars
Shareholder Services Department
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU 
Shareholder helpline: 0870 162 3100
Shareholder fax: 020 8639 2342
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
The Registrars will deal with any queries regarding:
shareholdings; dividends; lost share certificates; change of
name or address or death of a shareholder.  All correspondence
should be clearly marked “Viridian Group PLC” and quote the
full name and address in which the shares are registered. 
On-line Shareholder Services
Shareholders can access the following on-line services:
• Share dealing service 
• Access to personal shareholding (including transaction
history)
• Change of address
• Record or alter a dividend mandate instruction
• Download forms
• Share valuations and market information
• Access to frequently asked questions
To find out more about these services and to register simply log
on to www.shareholder.viridiangroup.co.uk and follow the
instructions.  When you register as a new user, a letter will be
despatched to your registered address with your one-off
activation code which is required for the first time you log on to
this service.  
Share Dealing Service
Capita IRG Trustees Ltd provide a quick and easy share dealing
service.  On-line and telephone dealing facilities are available to
buy or sell the Company’s ordinary shares.  For further
information, or to buy or sell shares, contact:
On-line dealing: www.capitadeal.com
Telephone dealing: 0870 458 4577
Dividend Payments
Arrangements can be made for the payment of any future
dividends directly into a bank or building society account by
writing to the Registrars at the above address stating the name
and address of the bank/building society, the sort code and
account number.  Alternatively, you will find a form of mandate
attached to your last dividend mailing which you may complete
and return to the Registrars.  
AGM
The AGM will be held in The King’s Hall Exhibition and
Conference Centre, Belfast BT9 6GW on 7 July 2006 at 
10.00 am.  The Notice and explanatory notes in relation to the
meeting are enclosed.
Key Dates
7 July 2006 AGM
4 August 2006 Record date for final dividend
8 September 2006 Payment of final dividend (26.61p)
14 November 2006 Announcement of interim results for
2006/07
May 2007 Preliminary announcement of results for 
2006/07
ShareGift
ShareGift (registered charity no 1052686) is an independent
charity which specialises in accepting donations of small
holdings of shares.  It may be especially useful for shareholders
who have shares which are uneconomic to sell and would like
to dispose of them for the benefit of UK charities.  There are 
no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of
shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income 
tax relief.  Further information can be obtained by calling 
020 7828 1151, writing to The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 
46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN or visiting
www.sharegift.org.
Unsolicited Mail
As the Company’s share register is open to public inspection,
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations
which use it as a mailing list.  You can limit the amount of
unsolicited mail you receive by registering with the Mailing
Preference Service.  You can register on-line at
www.mpsonline.org.uk or request an application form by 
calling 0845 703 4599 or writing to Mailing Preference Service,
Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.  You may, however,
continue to receive mail from organisations which do not
support this service.
Private (including employees) (26.70%)
Private / Institutional shareholders
% of issued share capital
Institutions (73.30%)
10,001-49,999 (4.45%)
1-500 (17.38%)
Range of shareholders
% of issued share capital
501-10,000 (11.20%)
50,000+ (66.97%) Viridian Group PLC,
Registered Office,
120 Malone Road,
Belfast BT9 5HT.
Registered in N.Ireland NI 33250
http://www.viridiangroup.co.uk
This document is printed on environmentally-kind paper.  The pulp used for
papermaking is obtained from responsibly farmed sources.  No hard woods from
rain forests are used.  The papermaking process is 100% chlorine free and the mill
operates on a closed water system with no direct discharge into rivers or the sea.
Designed by FireIMC
Printed by Heanor Gate Printing Limited
