 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Vitec Group plc
One Wheatfield Way
Kingston upon Thames, Surrey  
KT1 2TU United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8939 4650
F +44 (0)20 8939 4680
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England no. 227691 Directors’ Report
 Highlights 01 
 Chairman’s Statement 02 
 Group Chief Executive’s Review 04 
 Financial Review 12 
 Imaging & Staging Division 16
 Videocom Division 18 
 Services Division 20
  Key Performance Indicators 22  
and Other Measures 
 Board of Directors 24 
 
Remuneration Report  28 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  36
Corporate Governance  40 
Independent Auditors’ Report 48 
 
Consolidated Accounts 2010
 Consolidated Income Statement 49
  Consolidated Statement  50  
of Comprehensive Income 
 Consolidated Balance Sheet 51
  Consolidated Statement  52  
of Changes in Equity
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  53  
 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  54  
Company Accounts 2010
 Company Balance Sheet 93 
  Reconciliation of Movements 94  
in Shareholders’ Funds 
 Notes to the Company Accounts 95  
 Five Year Financial Summary 103
  Shareholder Information and 104 
Financial Calendar
Vitec is an international group 
principally serving customers  
in the broadcast, photographic 
and military, aerospace and 
government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well 
known premium brands on 
which its customers worldwide 
rely. Vitec is organised in three 
Divisions: Imaging & Staging, 
Videocom and Services.
Imaging & Staging designs, 
manufactures and distributes 
equipment and accessories  
for professionals and keen 
amateurs in photography,  
video and events. 
Videocom designs and 
distributes systems and 
products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, film and 
video production and MAG.
Services provides equipment 
rental, workflow design and 
technical support for camera, 
video, audio, fibre optic and 
wireless technology used by 
TV production teams and  
film crews. 
 
More information can be  
found at our website:  
www.vitecgroup.com
The Vitec Group plc
Designed by Design Motive
Printed and bound in the UK
by Dayfold Print Ltd
It is important that our Annual Report is produced 
in an environmentally responsible manner. 
This Annual Report was printed using vegetable 
based inks. The materials used have been  
approved by The Forest Stewardship Council
®
 
(FSC). Dayfold Ltd is an FSC chain of custody 
certified company. 
When you have finished with this report please 
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          01
Key points
•	 	 Broadcast and video markets return to growth
•	 	 Underlying organic CER** revenue growth of 4.3% 
•	 	 Operating profit* up 13.1% despite £7.9 million  
profit impact from the end of BAS contract
•	 	 Reported profit before tax before significant items*  
up by 17.6%, organic CER** up 6.9%
•	 	 IMT business focused on the MAG opportunity: 
Auction 66 contract wins
•	 	 Launch of Manfrotto Powerbrand products  
at Photokina 
•	 	 Total dividend increased 3.8% to 19.0p per share; 
recommended final dividend of 11.4p per share
Highlights
Revenue
£309.6m
Operating profit*
£27.7m
Adjusted basic earnings  
per share*
41.9p
Net debt
£28.1m
06 
07 
08 
09 
10 
Revenue  
£m
222.3
273.8
337.7
315.1
309.6
06 
07 
08 
09 
10 
Operating profit
*
  
£m
25.2
32.6
38.4
24.5
27.7
06 
07 
08 
09 
10 
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share*
pence
35.3
46.0
55.9
36.5
41.9
06 
07 
08 
09 
10 
Net debt 
£m
18.9
38.4
53.0
40.6
28.1
*   Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors consider should be separately disclosed to assist  
in the understanding of the underlying trading and financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
**  Organic CER. At Constant Exchange Rates excluding year on year effect of acquisitions and disposals. The Group has reported a good set of results for 2010, with a recovery 
in our core markets and progress on our three market strategy. 
Investing for growth
We provide vital products and services that 
support the capture of exceptional images
Chairman’s Statement
Our purpose
Highlights of 2010 included:
•	 	 Broadcast and video markets return to growth
•	 	 Underlying organic CER** revenue growth of 4.3%
•	 	 Operating profit* up 13.1% despite £7.9 million profit 
impact from the end of BAS contract
•	 	 Reported profit before tax before significant items*  
up by 17.6%, organic CER** up 6.9%
•	 	 IMT business focused on the MAG opportunity: 
Auction 66 contract wins
•	 	 Launch of Manfrotto Powerbrand products  
at Photokina
•	 	 Total dividend increased 3.8% to 19.0p per share; 
recommended final dividend of 11.4p per share
02          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Product excellence
Everything we make and 
do is exceptional.
Creative solutions
We are constantly looking 
to break new ground.
Integrity
What you see is  
what you get.
Customer focus
We are nothing without  
our customers.
Collaboration
We work better when 
we work together.
Financial highlights
Revenue was £309.6 million (2009:  
£315.1 million). Revenue at organic 
constant currency** was 4.3% higher  
as our core markets recovered from  
the depressed levels of 2009. This, 
coupled with the full-year benefit of  
cost savings implemented in 2009, 
delivered profit before tax of £26.7 million 
(2009: £22.7 million) and basic earnings 
per share before significant items of  
41.9p (2009: 36.5p).
Once again, there has been a strong  
focus on cash management across  
the Group, with free cash generation  
of £18.0 million (2009: £22.7 million)  
and further strengthening of the  
Group’s balance sheet with net debt at  
31 December 2010 totalling £28.1 million 
(2009: £40.6 million). This result has been 
achieved against the background of 
investment in the three market strategy.
The disposal of Clear-Com during the  
year resulted in cash consideration of  
£8.8 million and a profit on disposal  
of £2.2 million before tax.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 11.4p per share (2009: 10.9p). 
Subject to approval by the shareholders  
at the Annual General Meeting, the 
dividend will be paid on 20 May 2011  
to shareholders on the register at the  
close of business on 26 April 2011.  
The full-year dividend of 19.0p  
(2009: 18.3p), equates to a dividend  
cover of 2.2 times (2009: 2.0 times)  
based on basic earnings per share  
before significant items* .
Board changes and employees  
Richard Cotton left the Group as Group 
Finance Director on 4 February 2011  
and has been succeeded by Nick Humby 
as Interim Chief Financial Officer. The 
Board would like to thank Richard for 
his contribution towards the successful 
development of Vitec over the last  
two years.
The Board would also like to thank our 
employees for their commitment to and 
passion for the Company, particularly 
enabling excellent progress to be made on 
the three market strategy and delivering a 
good result for our shareholders in 2010. 
The Vitec Mindset remains central to our 
employees, notably product excellence, 
creative solutions, integrity, customer  
focus and collaboration.
Outlook
In 2010, we laid further foundations for 
future growth with major product launches 
for Manfrotto, key contract wins in MAG, 
the opening of facilities in Brazil and China 
and the consolidation of our Imaging 
operations in Italy and MAG operations  
in New Jersey, USA into new offices.
We will continue to invest in 2011 to 
develop our products and services to 
support the three market strategy of 
Broadcast and Video, Photographic and 
MAG. In particular, we will invest further in 
the Manfrotto Powerbrand. We continue 
to seek value adding acquisitions that are 
consistent with our three market focus.
We are confident that the successful 
execution of our strategy will enable us to 
capitalise on the market opportunities that 
we have identified and deliver increased 
shareholder value over the coming years.
Michael Harper
Chairman
Our values
*    Before significant items. Significant items  
are those items of financial performance that  
the directors consider should be separately 
disclosed to assist in the understanding of the 
underlying trading and financial performance 
achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the 
Consolidated Accounts 2010).
**  Organic CER. At Constant Exchange Rates 
excluding year on year effect of acquisitions 
and disposals.
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          03 2010 saw the recovery of our core target markets from the depressed 
performance of 2009, the full year benefit of the cost savings initiated  
in 2009, and strong strategic execution of our three market strategy  
launched in October 2009.
A focused approach to growth
Financial performance
In 2010 Vitec saw solid growth from a 
combination of recovery in the photographic 
and broadcast markets from 2009 and the 
launch of new products across the Group.
Revenue at organic constant exchange 
rates increased by 4.3%; reported revenues 
declined by 1.7%, to £309.6 million  
(2009: £315.1 million) reflecting the 
disposal of Clear-Com in April 2010,  
and IFF in 2009. Revenues were boosted 
by strong growth in the photographic  
and broadcast markets throughout the 
year which offset the expected impact  
of the end of the Broadcast Auxiliary 
Services (BAS) contract that reduced 
revenue in Videocom.
Reported operating profit* increased by 
13.1% to £27.7 million (2009: £24.5 million), 
with organic growth of 3.2% at constant 
exchange rates. The 2009 cost saving 
initiatives delivered the expected annual 
benefit of £22 million in 2010 (2009:  
£17 million). The operating margin 
increased to 8.9% (2009: 7.8%). Reported 
Group profit before tax* increased by 17.6% 
to £26.7 million (2009: £22.7 million),  
or 6.9% in organic growth at constant 
exchange rates. Underlying Group Basic 
EPS* was up 14.8% at 41.9p (2009: 
36.5p); Group Basic EPS after significant 
items was 42.8p (2009: 7.5p).
Cash generation was good, with free cash 
flow of £18.0 million (2009: £22.7 million), 
representing a cash flow conversion 
(before interest, tax and restructuring) 
of 93% (2009: 141%). This is after the 
start-up working capital investment (mainly 
inventories) for the Manfrotto Powerbrand, 
for which the first sales are due in the first 
half of 2011. Continuing working capital 
control resulted in a further reduction of 
the working capital to sales percentage to 
16.2% (December 2009: 16.4%). The year 
also benefited from tax rebates in Germany 
and USA relating to prior years, reducing net 
tax paid to £0.9 million (2009: £4.3 million). 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors  
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and  
financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
The Group’s balance sheet has 
strengthened. Our Net Debt / EBITDA  
ratio was reduced to 0.7 times  
(31 December 2009: 1.0 times) with  
Net Debt at 31 December 2010 reduced  
to £28.1 million (31 December 2009:  
£40.6 million) and drawings under our 
£125 million committed banking facility 
(which extends to August 2013) reduced 
to £34.8 million, or 27.8% (31 December 
2009: 42.2%).
Three market strategy
Following the launch of our new three 
market strategy in October 2009 we 
started to execute against this new 
strategic direction in 2010.
1 Broadcast and video
Vitec has leading brands in the broadcast 
and video market which comprises 
products and services aimed at television 
networks and production (broadcast), 
corporate, religious and educational 
markets (video).
In the broadcast sector we have continued 
to maintain our premium market position 
and share as this market recovered 
strongly in 2010. In the video sector we  
are developing products focused on the 
needs of the independent cameraman.  
We have successfully launched a new 
range of environmentally friendly LED lights 
for the studio customer (see page 38).
2 Photographic
Vitec has traditionally supplied its 
accessories (tripods, bags, heads 
and lighting supports) to professional 
photographers. In 2010 we continued 
to develop breakthrough products for 
this user group. We have also, however, 
developed products aimed at new 
04          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 consumer sectors among non-professional 
users and at Photokina in September 2010 
we launched a full range of tripods, bags, 
lighting and clothing aimed at these users. 
The response from customers and retailers 
has been extremely encouraging.
3 Military, aerospace and government 
(MAG)
Having established our microwave 
technology as the brand leader in the 
US broadcast market we have leveraged 
this technology into the MAG market. We 
have had success in winning significant 
orders particularly in the law enforcement 
area and customer reaction confirms our 
technology is world leading.
Product development
We continue to invest in our development 
processes to improve the time to  
market of new products and to invest  
in research, development and engineering 
in support of our businesses. After 
adjusting for capitalised expenditure 
of £1.5 million (2009: £0.6 million) and 
expenditure incurred in the disposed  
Clear-Com business of £0.5 million  
(2009: £2.4 million), research, development 
and engineering expenditure on a like  
for like basis was £10.8 million (2009:  
£10.7 million) representing 4% of  
Group product sales (2009: 4%).
A global company
In addition to strategic product and market 
developments, the Group expanded its 
global reach with the opening of our new 
photographic distribution businesses 
in Hong Kong and China and our office 
in Sao Paulo, Brazil, ready for the 2014 
FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, 
bringing the number of countries where 
the Group has a direct presence to 14. 
We have manufacturing facilities in lower 
labour cost countries such as Costa Rica, 
Slovakia and Mexico and outsourced 
operations in China. In total, the Group 
now has sales in over 100 countries.  
We consolidated our IMT operations into 
one facility in New Jersey, USA and the 
non-production elements of our Imaging 
business into one site in Bassano, Italy. 
Cost reductions
The cost reductions implemented in  
2009 yielded their full potential, delivering 
£22 million (2009: £17 million) of cost 
savings in 2010. This helped contribute 
to a stronger operating margin of 8.9% 
(2009: 7.8%) as we gained good operating 
leverage from the increased volume.
Collaboration
I am delighted at the increased 
collaboration across the Group. Examples 
include the use of Litepanels’ technology 
to develop LED lights for the photographic 
market under the Manfrotto brand and the 
launch of the Vitec Ambassador Program, 
a series of events organised and managed 
by the Services Division designed to 
expose live event producers to the broad 
range of Group products from across all 
business units and divisions.
Acquisitions and disposals
Consistent with our purpose to provide 
products and services that support 
the capture of exceptional images, we 
divested our audio business, Clear-Com 
to HM Electronics for consideration of 
approximately £8.8 million and a profit  
on disposal of £2.2 million.
Environmental products
Our Litepanels products are helping our 
broadcaster customers tackle global 
warming. LED studio lighting delivers up 
to 95% energy savings over traditional 
lighting and our Litepanels range is the 
market leader in this technology. A single 
studio which adopts our LED technology 
can save 200,000 pounds of CO
²
 entering 
the environment annually. 2010 saw a 
substantial increase in Litepanels sales 
to the broadcast and film industries. Yet 
only a small portion of studios worldwide 
currently utilise LED’s so we have great 
opportunities in 2011 to grow this business 
and make a significant contribution 
towards reducing the industry’s carbon 
footprint via our environmentally 
sustainable lighting products. 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
3 2 1
MAG
market
photographic
market
broadcast
& video
market
3
market
strategy >
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          05 06          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
3
market
strategy
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Broadcast & video market 1
Building within the
Vitec currently supplies this market with a variety of accessories for the 
video camera. These include camera supports, bags and teleprompters; 
batteries and chargers; microwave systems; and LED lighting. These 
products are primarily used in the acquisition and capture segments of  
the broadcast production chain.
The market
The broadcast & video market comprises 
products and services sold into two main 
sectors:
•		 Br oadcast	–	used	primarily	in	television	
and film production. The end customer 
is often a television network, or systems 
integrator acting on their behalf, or an 
independent production company.  
We estimate the market for Vitec’s 
products and services was worth  
around £430 million in 2010.
•		 V ideo	–	used	in	video	pr oduction	wher e	
the end customer is not a broadcaster 
but a corporate, educational, religious, 
legislative or live event entity or an 
independent videographer. We estimate 
the market for Vitec’s products and 
services was worth around £120 million 
in 2010.
The market drivers
Advertising
In the broadcast sector, advertising is the 
main source of revenue for commercial 
broadcasters. Television remains the  
largest advertising medium and is forecast  
to grow 6% per annum from 2011 until 2013.
HD transition and 3D 
The HD transition in the broadcast sector 
has led to television studios and outside 
broadcast trucks being upgraded to handle 
HD cameras and signals. This process still 
has some way to go with around half of the 
installed base of cameras still needing to 
be upgraded. 3D has emerged recently as 
another opportunity for further demand for 
Vitec’s products as new, heavier supports 
are required for 3D cameras.
Proliferation of video creation and 
consumption
Cost-effective production technologies, 
the increase in video-enabled broadband 
and mobile devices, and the growth in 
independent content producers and 
owners are all factors that have expanded 
the number of people producing high 
quality video. This is no longer the preserve 
of broadcasters, as corporate, religious 
and educational establishments and other 
entities produce their own content and 
thus require accessories which we supply.
Vitec market position
Supports 
With our multiple brands, Vitec has the 
premium position and largest market share 
in camera supports in both the broadcast 
and the video sectors. 
Mobile power 
Anton/Bauer remains the leading brand, 
with a number one position in the after-
market for camera batteries and chargers  
in the broadcast sector.
Microwave systems
Our three businesses had the leading 
position in the final stages of the now 
completed BAS relocation project in the 
US broadcast sector. They also occupy the 
number one position in the US video sector, 
where the equipment is used in sports and 
entertainment venues.
LED lighting 
Litepanels led the way in the adoption 
of LED lighting, especially in ‘on location’ 
shots in the broadcast sector and in the 
video sector. As LEDs become more 
powerful, Litepanels will be able to supply 
an increasing number of television studios 
in the broadcast sector as well.
LED lighting
LED lighting is leading the way in transforming the 
way HD video is shot. The ability to control precisely 
lighting characteristics and in-built features, 
together with energy savings over traditional 
lighting, will ensure continued growth in LEDs.
Broadcast robotics
Broadcast robotics provide cost-effective solutions 
in a wide variety of applications, from simple one 
or two camera studios, to complex networks. 
The latest commercial implementation of Vinten 
Radamec’s total robotic solutions include Sky.  Vitec Group products are ready to meet the challenges of supporting Stereographic  
3D (S3D) camera systems. High capacity fluid heads from industry-leading brands 
OConnor, Sachtler and Vinten easily handle the many possible camera system 
configurations for shooting in S3D and provide smooth movement essential for  
real-time 3D broadcast.  
Key strategies
Vitec has leading brands in the broadcast & 
video market. Our strategy is to maintain our 
premium product offerings and market share 
in the broadcast segment whilst developing 
specific products and new channels  
focused on the needs of the independent 
cameraman in the video segment.
Growth opportunities in the broadcast &  
video market will come from:
•		 LED	lighting	(wher e	the	energy	saving	 
over traditional lighting is significant);
•		 Business	and	industry	applications	for	 
our existing products;
•		 Micr owave	systems	(outside	the	US	 
using our global presence); and
•		 Robotics	(as	video	pr oduction	 
becomes more automated).
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have: 
•		 L a u n c h e d 	 S o l a 	 L E D 	 F r e s n e l 	 l i g h t s , 	 a 	 m a j o r	
new product family that expands the 
addressable market for LEDs into major TV 
studios for the first time and delivers up to 
95% energy savings over traditional lighting; 
•		 S e c u r e d 	 a 	 m a j o r 	 o r d e r 	 f o r 	 I M T 	 H D 	 m i c r o w a v e	
systems with a Russian sports broadcaster; 
•		 Developed	a	range	of	video	accessories	
to support hybrid DSLRs and compact 
camcorders aimed at business and  
industry applications; and
•		 W on	significant	or ders	for	the	new	V inten	
Radamec robotics range including at  
Sky’s Harlequin facility, West London  
and Alberta Parliament. 
Paul Vickerage
Head of Studios, Sky Italia regarding their 
installation for the Vancouver Winter Games
“This is a great example of 
true collaboration between 
broadcaster and supplier. 
We have worked together 
in partnership with Vitec, 
Litepanels and Trans Audio 
Video to achieve this solution.”
Our world-class brands
Bags 
Kata
Petrol
Equipment 
Rentals
Bexel
The Camera Store
Lighting
Anton/Bauer 
Litepanels 
Sachtler 
Microwave 
Systems 
MSC  
Nucomm  
RF Central 
Mobile Power 
Anton/Bauer
Prompters 
Autoscript
Supports
Avenger 
Manfrotto
OConnor
Sachtler 
Vinten 
Vinten Radamec
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          07 08          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Photographic market 2
Snapping up interest in the
Vitec currently supplies this market with a variety of accessories for the 
photographic camera. These include tripods, bags and lighting supports 
manufactured by Vitec, plus third party products (flashes and lighting 
controls such as umbrellas and reflectors) distributed by Vitec. In future, 
the range of accessories made by Vitec is likely to expand to include other 
items such as LED lights under the Manfrotto brand name.
The market
The photographic market comprises 
products sold into two main sectors:
•		 P r o f e s s i o n a l 	 – 	 w h e r e 	 i m a g i n g 	 a c c e s s o r i e s	
are sold to a photographer whose 
business is taking photographs for a 
living. We estimate that the professional 
sector for the imaging accessories 
supplied by Vitec was worth some  
£380 million in 2010.
•		 Non-pr ofessional	–	wher e	imaging	
accessories are sold to photographers 
who have a keen interest in photography 
or simply want to record images. We 
estimate that the non-professional sector 
for the imaging accessories supplied  
by Vitec was worth some £470 million  
in 2010.
The market drivers
Digital SLR unit sales 
In recent years, digital SLR unit sales  
have been driven by the professional 
sector, as photographers have moved from 
analogue to digital cameras. For the next 
few years, this sector will continue to enjoy 
moderate growth, driven by innovation 
such as the ability to shoot high definition 
video. The non-professional sector is 
growing more quickly, driven by a new 
generation of consumers upgrading to 
digital SLR cameras, which are becoming 
simpler and cheaper. The Camera and 
Imaging Products Association (CIPA),  
the trade association of Japanese camera 
manufacturers, forecasts volume growth  
of DSLRs in 2011 of 20% over 2010.
Technology and social trends 
Digital technology is facilitating the growth 
of photography as a hobby. Image sharing 
is becoming more accessible and popular, 
and social networking internet sites have 
enabled images to be easily transferred 
among users. In addition, there is an 
increasing take-up of photography as a 
record of images, especially by women.
Vitec market position
Supports 
With its Manfrotto and Gitzo brands,  
Vitec has the premier brands in 
photographic camera supports in both  
the professional and non-professional 
sectors. With our high quality and 
innovative products, we are the clear 
leader in terms of market share (by value).
Bags 
Currently sold under the Kata name 
and, under licence, under the National 
Geographic name, Vitec’s brands are 
gaining share in this large product  
category. Further growth in market share is 
expected as a result of using the Manfrotto 
brand in this product category as part of 
our strategy for the photographic market. 
Lighting
This comprises lighting supports and LED 
lighting. In lighting supports, which are 
predominantly used in the professional 
sector, the Manfrotto brand is the market 
leader. Sales of LED lighting into the 
photographic market are in their infancy  
as the industry continues to rely on 
traditional lighting technologies.  
Vitec currently also distributes third  
party flashes and lighting controls.
3
market
strategy
Manfrotto joystick 
heads which won a 
TIPA award in 2010.
The very first 
dedicated  
HDSLR backpack. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          09
Manfrotto Powerbrand
The Manfrotto brand capitalises on 40 years of experience in the professional photo 
and video accessory markets. It is now launching new consumer-friendly products 
across multiple categories to help people express their creativity by making qualitative 
digital image capturing easier and more fun, whatever their level of technical expertise.
Key strategies
In the photographic market, our strategy  
is to maintain our premium market  
position among professional and hobbyist 
photographers whilst leveraging the 
Manfrotto brand to enter new faster-
growing segments among  
non-professional users. 
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have:
•		 Launched	a	fully	integrated	range	of	
products targeted at new entry level 
DSLR users consisting of over 100 new 
products comprising supports, bags, 
LED lights and apparel;
•		 Developed	the	first	range	of	Manfr otto	
LED photographic lights, to be delivered 
in the first half of 2011; 
•		 P r e s e n t e d 	 a 	 f u l l 	 r a n g e 	 o f 	 n e w 	 b a g s 	 u n d e r	
both the Manfrotto and Kata brands 
targeted at professionals and hobbyists, 
as well as a new Manfrotto range aimed 
at the non-professional segment and  
the new National Geographic “Africa” 
range; and
•		 Pr esented	the	integrated	range	of	
products to major buyers in the 
photographic market - traditional 
speciality stores, consumer electronics 
stor es	and	e-tailers	–	with	sales	expected	
to begin in the first half of 2011.
Our world-class brands
Supports
Avenger
Gitzo
Manfrotto
Bags
Kata
Manfrotto
National Geographic*
*  Manufactured and distributed under licence
Joe McNally
Professional photographer
“I use Manfrotto stuff because I 
can count on it. Whether it’s digital 
imaging, camera supports, video… 
you know it’s changing, but if you 
want to keep communicating 
visually, you have to keep adapting.” Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
3
market
strategy
MAG market 3
Signalling intent in the
Vitec currently supplies the military, aerospace and government (MAG) 
market with a variety of equipment. However, our primary focus in 
the future will be the supply of microwave equipment. This currently 
comprises transmitters and receivers manufactured by Vitec,  
(which enable video signals to be sent wirelessly for up to 30 miles) 
together with antennae and amplifiers manufactured by third parties.
The market
The MAG market comprises products sold 
into the following main sectors:
• 	 	 Law	enfor cement	–	wher e	micr owave	
equipment is sold to police forces and 
other similar agencies to enable them 
to receive and transmit video signals 
from, for example, helicopters to mobile 
command centres and ground patrols; 
and
•		 Military	vehicles	–	wher e	micr owave	
equipment is used in both manned and 
unmanned applications to recognise  
and assess threats more effectively. 
We estimate that the global MAG market 
for the microwave equipment currently 
supplied by Vitec was worth some  
£550 million in 2010.
The market drivers
Law enforcement 
The ability of police forces to assess 
situations and thus act accordingly is 
enhanced by the use of video, for example 
during disasters or crowd control. Another 
major driver of growth will be the supply 
to various US agencies with surveillance 
equipment over the next three years.
Military vehicles 
The main growth drivers in this sector are:
•		 Incr eased	use	of	unmanned	vehicles,	
whether in the air, on the ground or in 
the water to minimise loss of human life 
when assessing potential threats; and 
•		 Incr eased	situational	awar eness	 
for armed forces in manned vehicles  
(for example, in convoys), where video 
enhances the ability to deploy troops 
more effectively.
IMT’s ruggedized COFDM 6-way diversity portable 
receiver/monitor.
IMT’s New Head Office at Mount Olive.
10          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Law enforcement 
Under the IMT brand, Vitec is leading technology development in the ever-
increasing video quality, robust and low-latency transmission, and secure 
encryption demands in mission critical applications, such as police surveillance.
Key strategies
In the MAG market, our strategy is to 
leverage our microwave technology 
developed in the Broadcast market.  
We continue to see opportunities for  
our range of transmitters and receivers in 
military and law enforcement applications. 
Overall defence budgets are under 
pressure but demand for intelligence, 
surveillance and reconnaissance 
equipment remains a priority: 
•		 In	law	enfor cement	wher e	our	pr oducts	
help police authorities improve their 
situational awareness (e.g. crowd control) 
and surveillance where our miniature 
products assist national agencies in 
covert operations; and
•		 In	military	vehicles	wher e	our	video	
technology can be used in unmanned 
applications to assess threats and to 
minimise loss of human life.
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have:
•		 W on	two	or ders	fr om	the	US	 
Department of Justice (Auction 66)  
worth $10.8 million of which one  
third was shipped in 2010; 
•		 Secur ed	further	law	enfor cement	
contracts with Pennsylvania State 
Police and Los Angeles County Sheriff’s 
Department Airborne Unit;
•		 Continued	pr oduct	development	with	
miniaturised HD transmitters/receivers 
and MPEG4 video compression; and
•		 Consolidated	operations	into	a	new	
purpose built facility in New Jersey.
Vitec brands for the MAG market
Microwave Systems 
IMT
“IMT is in the midst of supplying and installing aviation microwave 
downlink systems for the State’s fleet of helicopters. The customised 
downlink solution will enable uninterrupted broadcast of live aerial 
images which will provide an Incident Commander at the scene of 
an emergency with invaluable real-time information for situational 
awareness. With the fixed site IP backhaul capabilities, we can 
eventually offer real-time video of emergency situations to the  
911 centres across the State providing them with an invaluable 
resource which they could never afford on their own.”
Charles Brennan | Deputy Secretary
Pennsylvania State Office of Administration
Public Safety Radio
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          11 Operating profit before significant items* 
was £27.7 million, 13.1% higher than 
2009. The Group’s operating profit margin 
increased from 7.8% to 8.9%, reflecting the 
volume improvements and cost reductions 
actioned in 2009. Before beneficial foreign 
currency effects of £1.7 million over the 
year, the increase in operating profit* was 
6.2%, 3.2% in organic CER.
Profit before tax and significant items* 
was £26.7 million, up from £22.7 million in 
2009. Adjusted earnings per share before 
significant items* was 41.9p (2009: 36.5p).
Net financial expense
Net financial expense before significant 
items* totalled £1.0 million (2009:  
£1.8 million) and decreased principally 
because of low interest rates and lower 
levels of borrowing across the year.
Taxation
The effective taxation rate on operating 
profit after net finance expense but before 
significant items* was 33% (2009: 32%). 
The Group’s tax charge is higher than the 
UK statutory rate because the majority of  
its profits arise in overseas jurisdictions  
with higher tax rates.
Significant items
In 2010 these included a £2.1 million  
cost (2009: £nil) in relation to the exit from 
the Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) 
relocation project (of which £1.3 million 
was in cost of goods sold), a £2.5 million 
gain (2009: £nil) for the curtailment of 
the UK defined benefit pension scheme 
(net of costs of closure) and £0.1 million 
impairment loss on property (2009:  
£1.5 million). In 2009 significant items  
also included restructuring costs of  
£10.9 million. 
Group revenue
£309.6m
up 4%**
Group operating profit*
£27.7m
up 3%**
Group earnings per share*
41.9p
up 4%**
2010 results benefitted strongly from growth in the broadcast and photographic 
markets and the operating leverage created by the 2009 restructuring. 
Strong working capital discipline enabled net debt to be further reduced 
and allowed the business to invest in new product development.
Strengthening the foundations  
for future growth
Financial Review
Operating profit before  
significant items*
2009-10 Variance Analysis (£m)
2009 Operating profit*  24.5
Gross margin effects: 
- Volume, mix and efficiency 14.7
- BAS contract (7.9)
- Sales price less cost inflation 1.1
Operating expenses (7.1)
  0.8
Acquisitions/disposals  0.7
Foreign exchange effects: 
- Translation (0.3)
- Transaction after hedging 2.0
  1.7
2010 Operating profit*  27.7
Revenue 
Revenue decreased by £5.5 million  
to £309.6 million, a decline of 1.7% in  
the year. After adjusting for £1.2 million  
(0.2%) of adverse foreign exchange, the 
£17.0 million (6.2%) impact of disposals 
and the £24.1 million (8.8%) impact of 
the end of the BAS contract, there was a 
£36.8 million (13.5%) increase in organic 
constant currency revenue. Management 
estimate that revenue in Videocom 
benefitted from £5 million of broadcast 
projects deferred from 2009.
Operating profit 
The table opposite sets out an analysis 
of the factors increasing operating profit, 
before significant items*, between 2009 
and 2010. The variances are based on 
management’s best estimates and are  
not a statutory presentation.
12          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          13
There was a £2.2 million gain on disposal 
of the Clear-Com business (2009: loss of 
£0.7 million on disposal of IFF).
The amortisation of acquired intangibles 
decreased to £7.6 million (2009:  
£8.5 million) mainly due to the intangibles 
acquired with IMT being fully amortised by 
the end of the first half of 2010. The annual 
impairment review of goodwill led to no 
impairment charge in 2010 (2009: £nil). 
Finance income included in significant 
items* consisted of a £0.1 million gain 
(2009: £0.7 million gain) due to currency 
movements on loans not accounted for  
as net investment hedges.
The tax credit of £5.4 million (2009:  
£8.6 million) relates mainly to current year 
tax refunds (£3.2 million), the capitalisation 
of tax losses not previously recognised 
(£1.9 million) and effect of other items 
classified as significant (£0.3 million).
Acquisitions/disposal
There were no acquisitions in 2010 or 2009 
but there were earn out payments relating 
to acquisitions made in prior years of  
£2.6 million (2009: £3.0 million). The 
payments in 2010 related to Litepanels.
Clear-Com disposal
On 1 April 2010, Vitec sold its Clear-Com 
business to HM Electronics Inc. for a  
cash consideration of approximately  
£8.8 million. £8.0 million was received in 
cash at completion. Subsequently further 
cash of £0.4 million has been received 
arising from changes in working capital. 
Consideration of approximately  
£0.4 million is due in 2011, based  
on the actual turnover achieved during  
2010. Receipts from the sale have been 
used to pay down borrowings and to  
invest in Vitec’s future development.
The gross assets disposed of at the  
date of sale amounted to £10.0 million  
(net assets £5.9 million). A profit on 
disposal of £2.2 million before tax and  
£4.2 million after tax is recorded in 
significant items in the Income Statement, 
including the further potential consideration 
of £0.4 million.
The sale of Clear-Com represents an 
important strategic move for the Group,  
as we focus on opportunities in our  
chosen core markets. 
Revenue by destination Revenue by Division
Figure1 - 2010 Revenue by division and destination
*   Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors consider should be separately  
 disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and financial performance achieved by  
 the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
**  Organic CER: At Constant Exchange Rates excluding year on year effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Videocom Division 
£121.6m
Services Division 
£34.3m
Imaging & Staging Division
£153.7m
UK
£22.8m
Americas
£154.0m
Rest of the World
£60.0m
Rest of Europe
£72.8m 14          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Cash flow and net debt 
Cash generated from operations was 
strong at £34.6 million (2009: £42.8 million). 
The reduction compared with 2009 arises 
from increases in inventory and receivables 
in the last quarter as a result of higher 
revenue and inventory build up to fulfil 
new product orders. Working capital 
management remains a key focus.
Working capital (Q4 average inventory, 
trade and other receivables, trade and 
other payables, derivative financial 
instruments and current provisions) 
decreased as a percentage of annualised 
Q4 revenue to 16.2% (2009: 16.4%)  
due largely to tighter control.
Inventory rose £3.5 million to  
£55.4 million at the year-end, reflecting 
higher activity and holding levels; inventory 
days increased to 104 (2009: 97 days). 
Trade receivables decreased to  
£34.9 million as at the year end (2009: 
£35.0 million) and debtor days improved 
to 39 (2009: 41 days). Creditor days also 
improved to 44 (2009: 41 days). Inventory, 
debtor and creditor days are stated in 
constant currency at year-end exchange 
rates; inventory and creditor days are 
based on Q4 cost of sales (excluding 
exchange gains/losses) while debtor  
days are based on Q4 revenue.
The £10.9 million 2009 cost reduction 
programme resulted in cash outflows  
of £4.4 million (2009: £5.5 million).  
The remainder will be spent in 2011  
and beyond.
Capital expenditure, including capitalised 
development costs, totalled £16.5 million 
(2009: £15.3 million), of which £3.8 million 
(2009: £7.2 million) related to rental assets, 
partly financed by the proceeds from rental 
asset disposals of £1.4 million (2009:  
£1.5 million).
Net tax paid in 2010 of £0.9 million was 
significantly lower than 2009 (£4.3 million), 
mainly due to the tax refunds in Germany 
and USA.
Free cash flow decreased to £18.0 million 
reflecting the investments in working capital 
and increased capex which was partially 
offset by lower interest and tax payments.
The Group’s strong free cash flow, together 
with adverse exchange movements on  
net debt of £1.7 million (2009: £0.1 million) 
resulted in a further decrease in Net Debt 
to £28.1 million (2009: £40.6 million). 
Treasury
Financing, currency hedging and tax 
planning are managed centrally. Hedging 
activities are designed to protect profits, 
not to speculate. Any substantial changes 
which are planned to the financial structure 
of the Group, or to its treasury practice,  
are first referred to the Board for approval. 
The Group operates strict controls  
over all treasury transactions involving  
dual signatures and appropriate 
authorisation limits. 
As in previous years, a portion of the 
transactions of subsidiaries in foreign 
currencies is hedged, with the US dollar 
contracts as at 31 December 2010 set  
out in Figure 2 below. 
The Group does not hedge the translation 
of its foreign currency profits. A proportion 
of the Group’s foreign currency net 
assets are hedged using normal Group 
borrowings and forward contracts.
Financing activities 
The Group’s principal financing facility  
is a five-year £125 million committed 
multicurrency revolving current loan 
agreement involving five banks, expiring  
on 8 August 2013. At the end of December 
2010 £34.8 million (2009: £52.7million) of 
the facility was utilised.
The average cost of borrowing for the  
year was 1.3% (2009: 1.4%) reflecting  
the continued low level of interest rates.  
Net interest cost (consisting of net interest 
payable and commitment fees) was  
£1.2 million (2009: £1.6 million), reflecting 
lower interest rates and lower debt over  
the year. Net interest cover (using operating 
profit before significant items*) remained 
high at 23 times (2009: 15 times). 
With regard to the management of capital, 
the Group’s primary objective is to ensure its 
continuance as a going concern. In respect 
of gearing, the Board seeks to maintain an 
efficient capital structure without exposing 
the Group to unnecessary levels of risk; the 
Group has operated comfortably within its 
loan covenants during 2010. The Board 
believes the current capital structure is 
appropriate for the Group, bearing in mind 
its current strong cash generation, dividend 
policy and its typical ongoing level of 
acquisition activity. The Board will continue 
to look for alternative long term debt 
facilities to complement its existing facilities, 
which, if implemented, would marginally 
increase the annual interest cost.
Financial Review continued
Figure 2 – Currency hedging
  
 December  Average December Average 
(Currency) 2010 rate 2009 rate
US Dollars sold for Euros    
Forward contracts $33.7m 1.37 $29.3m 1.37
Options $nil n/a $7.3m 1.45
US Dollars sold for Sterling    
Forward contracts $20.6m 1.55 $29.9m 1.59 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          15
Foreign Exchange
2010 operating profit benefitted from a 
£1.7 million favourable foreign exchange 
effect. The average £/$ and Euro/$ 
exchange rates were favourable compared 
to 2009 which, together with favourable 
£/$ and Euro/$ hedging contracts, gave 
rise to the gain.
UK pensions
Following consultation with active 
members and the scheme trustee, on  
31 July 2010 the Group closed its UK 
defined benefit pension scheme, the Vitec 
Group Pension Scheme, to future accrual.
The closure of the scheme gave rise 
to the curtailment gain of £3.0 million 
in accordance with IFRS accounting 
standards and costs of closure of  
£0.5 million which are reflected in the 
significant items in the Income Statement.
Dividend
The directors have recommended a final 
dividend of 11.4p per share amounting to 
£4.9 million (2009: 10.9p, amounting to  
£4.6 million). The dividend subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting will be paid on 20 May 2011 to 
shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on 26 April 2011. This will  
bring the total dividend for the year to  
19.0p per share (up 3.8 %).
Dividend Reinvestment plan
The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan that allows shareholders to reinvest 
dividends to purchase additional shares in 
the Company. For shareholders to apply 
the proceeds of this and future dividends 
to the plan, application forms must be 
received by the Company’s Registrar 
by no later than 26 April 2011. Existing 
participants in the plan will automatically 
have the final dividend reinvested.  
Details on the plan can be obtained  
from Capita Registrars at  
www.capitaregistrars.com.
Principal risks and uncertainties
US market
50% of 2010 revenue was from the 
Americas, principally the USA, so the 
Group remains susceptible to any major 
deterioration in demand for its products 
and services from US customers. It is 
difficult to mitigate this risk but the Group 
seeks to reduce its dependence on the 
US by actively widening its sales and 
distribution activities, particularly into Asia.
Foreign exchange
The great majority of the Group’s profit 
is earned in overseas currencies and 
is therefore subject to translation risk if 
sterling strengthens. To mitigate this, a 
proportion of the Group’s foreign currency 
net assets are hedged using normal  
Group borrowings and forward contracts. 
In addition, many of the Group’s businesses 
sell worldwide from various countries of 
manufacture, so the Group is subject to 
transaction risk, particularly that of a weaker 
US dollar. The Group partially hedges its 
major foreign exchange receipts by selling 
currency 12 to 18 months forward on a 
rolling basis. In addition the Group seeks to 
outsource the manufacture of parts, where 
appropriate, to low-cost countries, whose 
currencies are frequently either dollar-
denominated or linked to the dollar.
Markets
The Group’s two broadcast divisions 
are at risk from a reduction in the capital 
expenditure requirements of its broadcast 
customers and, in the US, their rental 
requirements. This dependence is 
changing as broadcasting moves from TV 
to delivery by other modes such as internet 
and mobile services. To mitigate this, the 
Group markets its products and services 
to all of these producers of broadcast 
video material, as well as to the religious, 
corporate and government sectors. 
Imaging products are principally used by 
both professionals and hobbyists. Whilst 
sales of cameras are forecast to continue 
to grow, there is a risk that recessionary 
conditions may lead to adverse sales 
pressures in these markets.
Low-cost competition
The Group is at risk from low-cost 
competitors who may sell similar 
products at lower prices, particularly for 
higher volume items such as the simpler 
photographic tripods. While the Group 
also sources those cheaper products from 
lower-cost countries, it combats this threat 
by patenting its technologies wherever 
possible and taking action against any 
infringement, continuously innovating its 
products and employing its significant 
marketing and distribution capabilities.
Strategy
The business growth opportunities outlined 
in the strategic direction communicated 
by the Group in October 2009 are based 
on market research commissioned by 
the Group with external experts. There 
is the risk that the sampling data used in 
this research is unrepresentative of the 
population. Success with the MAG strategy 
is significantly dependent on continuing 
government funding in the targeted areas.  
In both the photographic and MAG 
strategies there is execution risk in 
successful delivery of appropriate  
products to the market.
Nick Humby
Interim Chief Financial Officer 16          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Imaging & Staging Division
Operational Review
Francesco Bernardi
Divisional Chief Executive
The Imaging & Staging Division has a strong reputation with two main groups of creative 
professionals: photographers and videographers, who shoot commercially, independently  
or for pleasure and share images on-line; and also live and corporate event production and 
touring bands, who need versatile trussing and staging sets.
Markets
The photographic market, the primary 
market for the Division, showed good signs 
of recovery particularly in the hobbyist and 
consumer segments. According to CIPA, 
shipments of DSLR cameras in 2010  
were up 30% on 2009 at around 13 million 
units. Camera volume growth is being 
driven primarily by the consumer segment 
upgrading obsolete pocket camera 
equipment, and by the rapid growth of 
the Chinese market, which is expected to 
become the second largest after the USA. 
In other markets, supports for video, 
lighting and cine/film applications,  
volumes enjoyed double digit growth 
recovering from the marked contraction 
of 2009. The live and corporate events 
market, where our Staging business 
operates, continued to feel the effects  
of the economic downturn, with volumes 
remaining in line with 2009.
Operations
Revenue for 2010 was £153.7 million,  
an increase of 8.4% (an increase of 9.7% 
in organic constant currency). Operating 
profit* rose 6.8% to £18.9 million (an 
increase of 2.3% in organic constant 
currency) due to positive exchange rate 
effects, a reduction in capacity and cost 
containment across the businesses 
partially offset by the investment in the 
launch of the Manfrotto Powerbrand. 
Our Supports business reported a 9% 
growth in sales underpinned by new 
products developed during 2009. During 
the year a new range of supports for 
the non-professional photographer was 
developed and launched at Photokina 
in September 2010. These were 
supplemented by the addition of new 
product families under the Manfrotto brand 
in photo bags, LED lights and apparel. 
In 2011, we will invest to support the 
distribution of these products through 
consumer retail channels.
In addition the Bags business benefited 
from growth in the Kata and National 
Geographic collections with sales up 20% 
in constant currency. Manfrotto Distribution 
reported solid growth with improved 
performance in the US and Japan. 
In Staging, the live event market remained 
flat compared with 2009. We therefore 
undertook a further business review which 
resulted in the move of more production 
to Slovakia and re-organisation of the 
business unit under one managing director. 
The business is now well-placed to benefit 
from recovery.
Divisional sales
£153.7m
Up
+9.7%** The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          17
12.5%
Key achievements
•	 	 Completed	the	new	Manfr otto	Powerbrand	pr oposition	and	
communication campaign; 
•	 	 Further	penetrated	the	fast-gr owing	consumer	electr onic	 
and e-tailing channels, including the implementation of a  
new web platform;
•	 	 Opened	two	new	Manfr otto	Distribution	subsidiaries	in	 
Shanghai and Hong Kong;
•	 	 Completed	consolidation	and	rationalisation	of	our	supports	
manufacturing plants in Feltre, Italy;
•	 	 Manfr otto	joysticks	won	the	CIP A	awar d	for	best	2010	photo	
accessory; and
•	 	 Kata’ s	Bumblebee	Ultra	Light	camera	bag	won	the	“Entertainment	
Technology and Cameras” category red dot award for design.
Case study 1: Gitzo Athena Head 
Gitzo has unveiled the world’s most advanced 
photographic head, which is capable of being 
remotely controlled. The Athena head reinforces 
the supremacy of Gitzo in pro-photo application, 
with the introduction of cutting edge robotic 
technology.
Case study 2: Manfrotto 504HD 
Manfrotto stepped into a new dimension of film 
making with the introduction of its new 504HD 
system. Specifically designed for fast-growing 
freelance productions, the head delivers superior 
pro performance and durability, combined with 
advanced ergonomics, a lightweight format and 
a new slide plate, designed to host ancillary 
accessories for VDSLR applications. 
Case study 3: Kata 
Kata introduced three collections under its 
‘lightweight protection’ promise. The new 
collections, led by the flagship Ultra Light 
collection, feature a combination of technology, 
materials and design which embody the ultimate 
essence of lightweight protection without 
compromise. The collections, and especially 
the award-winning Bumblebee backpack, were 
accepted enthusiastically by markets worldwide. 
The launch of many more innovative products is 
planned for 2011.
Our brands
Supports 
Avenger  
Gitzo 
Manfrotto
Bags 
Kata 
Manfrotto 
National Geographic*
Staging 
Brilliant Stages 
Litec 
Tomcat
*
  Manufactured and 
distributed under licence
2009
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors 
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and 
financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
** At constant exchange rates excluding year on year effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
2009
2009
2010
2010
2010
£17.7m
£18.9m
12.3%
£153.7m
£141.8m 18          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Videocom Division
Operational Review
Joop Janssen
Divisional Chief Executive
Our Videocom Division specialises in the design and distribution of high-quality equipment 
principally for professionals engaged in producing and transporting video content for the global 
media industries – broadcast, film, live events and education. More recently, our mission-critical 
visual communication and surveillance products have successfully entered the military, aerospace 
and government (MAG) markets.
Markets
Broadcast and film markets across all 
continents showed some volume recovery 
after a sharp decline in 2009. This was 
assisted by the recovery in TV advertising 
revenue which grew 9% globally in 2010 
and is forecast to continue to grow 6% 
per annum from 2011 until 2013. The 
broadcast and film markets were also 
underpinned by the continued transition  
to HDTV operations. 
We expect the compelling return on 
investment benefits of LED lighting, which 
delivers up to 95% energy savings over 
traditional lighting, to be a major motivator 
for studios to change from their older and 
more inefficient lighting. Our Litepanels 
range is the global market leader in this 
technology and in 2010 saw a substantial 
increase in its sales to the broadcast and 
film industries. 
The business and industry market in 2010 
remained robust, driven by the growth of 
live entertainment, on-location shoots, 
corporate videos and education especially 
in the US. 
The MAG market has seen increasing 
demand for video-enabled intelligence 
in both law enforcement and military 
unmanned vehicles and the demand for 
IMT’s market leading technology remains 
good, despite well-publicised reductions  
in defence expenditure globally.
Operations
Revenue for 2010 was £121.6 million,  
a decrease of 17.3%, or 6.6% in organic 
constant currency after adjusting for the 
disposal of Clear-Com. Further excluding 
the effects of the end of the BAS contract 
at IMT of £24.1 million, underlying revenue 
grew by 14.5%.
The Camera Dynamics business benefited 
from a number of major customer orders 
and increased demand for our leading 
brands in both robotic and manual 
supports. Our profit from camera  
supports grew significantly reflecting  
cost saving measures undertaken in  
late 2008 and 2009.
Our Litepanels LED business increased 
revenue by 25% underpinned by orders  
for the Winter Olympics in Vancouver.  
We secured the first sales of our Sola 
studio product range from CNN.
Our IMT microwave systems business 
revenue grew in constant currency by 
10%, excluding the £24.1 million impact  
of the cessation of the BAS project,  
which had a corresponding operating profit 
impact of £7.9 million. This was helped 
predominantly by wins in the MAG market, 
including the Department of Justice and 
the US Federal Government.
Anton/Bauer had a good year, helped by 
the recovery in the broadcast market and 
the supply of batteries and chargers to  
the medical market. 
Globally, the Group’s integrated approach 
across our leading brands helped us 
achieve record revenues in China and  
led a strong recovery in Asia for the 
Videocom Division.
Divisional sales
£121.6m 
Up
+14.5%** The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          19
Case study 1: Litepanels
Media giant CNN took advantage of the latest 
in lighting technology for its new US studio by 
specifying Litepanels LED fixtures, including the 
new and award-winning LED Sola 6 Fresnels. 
Along with extraordinary light quality, each 
Litepanels fixture features full remote control 
of dimming as well as focusing. Litepanels’ 
proprietary LED technology also uses up to  
95% less energy than conventional fixtures.
Case study 2: 
Sachtler, Litepanels, Petrol, Anton/Bauer
Videocom businesses supported the  
‘Going south, cycling through the Americas’ 
environmental film by cinematographer Milan 
Collin and Dutch production company Deepeei. 
Two cycling teams set out across the continent 
in search of exemplary climate projects. Sachtler 
supported them with Cine 30 HD and Video 15 
SB support systems, while Litepanels MicroPro, 
Petrol camera bags and  6 DIONIC HCX 
batteries and 1 QUAD charger from  
Anton/Bauer were also used.
Case study 3: IMT
IMT supplied a comprehensive microwave 
downlink system for the Los Angeles County 
Sheriff’s Department for its fleet of 14 new patrol 
helicopters. The customised solution enables 
inter-operability with the surveillance solutions  
of partner agencies and uninterrupted, ship-to-
ground broadcast of live aerial images to provide 
ground personnel with real-time information at 
both fixed and portable receive sites.
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors 
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and 
financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
**  At constant exchange rates excluding year on year effect of acquisitions and disposals, and the  
effects of the end of the BAS contract.
Key achievements
•	 	 Major wins for IMT in the MAG market: Los Angeles County Sheriff’s 
Department Airborne unit, Pennsylvania State Police and the US 
Department of Justice;
•	 	 V inten	won	major	or ders	with	Sky	(in	the	UK	and	in	Italy)	and	was	
recognised with the Queen’s award for its continuous innovation;
•	 	 V inten	Radamec	won	leading	r obotics	deals	with	its	Fusion	 
product range;
•	 	 An	IMT	HD	wir eless	systems	or der	for	ANO	Sports	Br oadcasting	 
in Russia; 
•	 	 The	opening	of	the	Brazil	office	and	a	new	facility	for	our	IMT	 
business in New Jersey; and
•	 	 Anton/Bauer	won	major	or ders	in	the	medical	market	including	 
Yale-New Haven hospital in Connecticut.
Our brands Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
Bags 
Petrol
Equipment Rentals UK 
The Camera Store
Lighting 
 Anton/Bauer 
Litepanels 
Sachtler
Microwave Systems 
IMT 
MSC 
Nucomm 
RF Central
Mobile Power 
Anton/Bauer
Prompters  
Autoscript
Supports 
OConnor 
Sachtler 
Vinten 
Vinten Radamec
2009
£147.0m
2009
£8.5m
2009
5.8%
6.9%
2010
£121.6m
2010
£8.4m
2010 20          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Services Division
Operational Review
Jerry Gepner
Divisional Chief Executive
Our Services Division provides the highest quality broadcast equipment and engineering support 
for the most demanding broadcast and media productions. In 2010 it provided solutions for 
events ranging from the XXI Winter Olympic Games, the G8 Summit, the inaugural Youth Games 
and numerous top entertainment and awards shows. Its capabilities with broadcast, fibre optics, 
wireless audio and other technologies makes it a complete one-stop facility for top producers 
around the globe.
Markets
2010 was a year of recovery for the 
broadcast sports and entertainment 
marketplace. The XXI Winter Olympic 
Games, FIFA World Cup and other  
major entertainment and political events 
helped the rebound from lower levels  
of expenditure in 2009. The major 
broadcasters also continued to adopt  
high definition formats for the coverage  
of live events.
In addition, the emergence of a fledgling 
3D television industry offered opportunities 
for experimentation at major events like  
the All-Star Baseball game, US Open 
Tennis Tournament, NASCAR racing  
and NHL Hockey.
Operations
Revenue for 2010 was £34.3 million,  
up 30.4% (29.4% in constant currency). 
Increases in broadcast advertising revenues 
helped fuel demand for broader and more 
sophisticated coverage of global events, 
creating an increased demand for 
broadcast kit at the venue.
Operationally, several departments were 
reorganised under fewer executives to 
provide efficiencies in sales, operations  
and engineering. 
2010 also saw the launch of the Vitec 
Ambassador Program, a series of events 
designed to expose producers to the broad 
range of Vitec products from across all 
business units and divisions. The program 
resulted in follow-on sales for other Group 
brands such as Litepanels and IMT.
Divisional sales
£34.3m 
Up
+29.4%** The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          21
2009
2010
2010
1.2%
Case study 2: G8/G20 Summit – Toronto
Bexel provided the full worldwide distribution 
system for the 36th G8 Summit. The backbone 
of the system was a sophisticated switching and 
monitoring matrix, which handled hundreds of 
video and audio signals and fed radio, television 
and internet distributors around the world.
Case study 3: Ground-breaking 3D
Bexel used its refurbished mobile showroom  
and production facility to design and install a  
3D control room to provide Turner Broadcasting 
with a full 3D production environment for 
coverage of the 4th July NASCAR race in 
Daytona Beach, Florida. In December, the same 
services were provided to the CBC for coverage 
of Hockey Night, one of the most watched 
sports programmes on Canadian television, and 
the first national telecast of an NHL event in 3D.
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors 
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and 
financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
** At constant exchange rates excluding year on year effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Key achievements
•	 	 Successful	pr ovision	of	the	largest	Olympic	initiative	in	the	division’ s	
history with the Winter Games. Facilities were provided for the host 
broadcaster (OBS) and also over a dozen other US and European 
broadcasters;
•	 	 Negotiation	and	execution	of	an	exclusive	multi-year	agr eement	with	
Panasonic to provide 3D television services for a wide range of events; 
•	 	 Completion	of	key	additional	exclusive	distributor	agr eements	for	
broadcast accessories and specialty manufacturers that provide a 
one-stop offering for our largest customers; 
•	 	 The	V itec	Ambassador	Pr ogram	r esulted	in	Litepanels	being	selected	 
by virtually all American football broadcasters for use in their on-air 
commentary booths; and
•	 	 Bexel,	in	partnership	with	Snøhetta,	the	Norwegian	ar chitectural	firm,	
was selected by the City of New York to provide consulting and 
broadcast infrastructure services for a multi-year project designed  
to create a massive live-event venue in Times Square.
Our services
Production equipment 
 rentals
Used production 
 equipment sales
Major event systems  
 and services
Professional audio 
 services and sales
Fibre optic solutions
Revenue
Operating profit/loss*
Operating margin*
2010
2009
2009
- 6.5%
£0.4m
- £1.7m
£26.3m
£34.3m
Case study 1: 
The XXI Winter Olympic Games
Bexel provided over 25 tonnes of broadcast 
technology for the 21st Winter Games, along 
with a team of highly trained technicians and 
engineers. Our equipment and personnel were 
key to the coverage provided by NBC, ZDF, 
NOK, as well as the host broadcaster OBS. Our 
fibre team also installed 48 miles of multi-strand 
optical cable and associated electronics to link 
alpine cameras and production systems with 
main editing and distribution points. 22          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
KPI/Measure Purpose Definition/Calculation Unit
Data  
source 2010 2009
Delivering value to shareholders
Adjusted basic 
earnings per 
share*
Monitor and 
indicator of earnings 
performance
Profit for the financial year after tax, before 
discontinued operations and significant items 
divided by weighted average number of
shares in issue during the financial year
pence per 
share
Audited accounts 41.9p 36.5p
Return on sales* Provide a
measure of overall 
operational efficiency
Operating profit before significant items for
the financial year divided by total revenue
for the financial year
% of revenue Audited accounts 8.9% 7.8%
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
Monitor and measure 
of investment return 
for shareholders
Share price growth plus dividends paid  
over the three year period ended on  
31 December 2010 or 2009
Share price: 30 trading day average over
the preceding 30 days
average 
compound 
annual growth 
%
Datastream 6.7% (5.0%)
Free cash flow Measure cash flow 
generated before 
“corporate” actions 
(M&A, share issues, 
dividends, share  
buy-backs etc)
Cash generated from operations in the
financial year after net capital expenditure,
net interest and tax paid in the financial year
£m Audited accounts 18.0 22.7
Controlling our working capital
Working capital % Provide an indication 
of the efficient 
utilisation of working 
capital resources
Average Quarter 4 (Q4) working capital divided  
by annualised Q4 revenue
Working capital comprises Inventories, Trade 
and other receivables, Trade and other payables, 
Derivative financial instruments and current 
provisions
Q4 comprises October, November and December
% of revenue Audited accounts
Monthly management 
accounts
16.2% 16.4%
Inventory days Provide an indication 
of how long it takes 
on average for Vitec 
to turn its inventory 
into revenue and 
how ready we are to 
supply customers
Net inventory at the end of the financial year 
divided by Q4 cost of sales (before exchange 
gains/losses) times number of days in Q4
days Audited accounts
Monthly management 
accounts
104 97
Debtor days Provide an indication 
of how long it takes 
on average for Vitec 
to receive payments 
on accounts 
receivables
Trade receivables at the end of the financial  
year divided by Q4 revenue times number of  
days in Q4
days Audited accounts
Monthly management 
accounts
39 41
Creditor days Provide an indication 
of how long it takes 
on average for Vitec 
to settle its accounts 
payables
Trade payables at the end of the financial year 
divided by Q4 cost of sales (before exchange 
gains/losses) times number of days in Q4
days Audited accounts
Monthly management 
accounts
44 41
Innovation and growth
Constant 
currency organic 
revenue growth
Monitor volume 
growth excluding 
effects of foreign 
exchange, 
acquisitions and 
divestments
Constant currency total revenue of the current 
financial year (excluding external revenue from 
acquired businesses) divided by total revenue of 
the prior financial year (excluding revenue from 
divested businesses) less 1 times 100%
Constant currency: Prior year adjusted for foreign 
exchange translation, current year adjusted for 
foreign exchange transactions
Acquired businesses: exclude external revenue 
for each month in the current financial year with 
no comparative amount in the same month of  
the prior financial year
Divested businesses: excludes external revenue 
for each month in the prior financial year with  
no comparative amount in the same month  
of the current financial year
% Audited accounts and, 
for acquired businesses, 
monthly management 
accounts
4.3% (19.5%)
Details of the Group’s performance against each of its KPIs is set out below.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  
and Other Measures (1)
 Per £1.0m of the Group’s revenue.
(2) 
There were no fatal workplace injuries in 2010 or 2009.
(3)
  Accidents were 10 in 2009 (representing 511 per 100,000 employees) and 10 in 2010 (representing 525 per 100,000 employees).  
At the Group’s main operations in Italy, Imaging Support, the number of accidents is down from 3 in 2009 to 1 in 2010. The number of accidents at Videocom, 
Services, Manfrotto Distribution and Staging increased from 7 in 2009 to 9 in 2010.
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors consider should be separately disclosed to assist  
in the understanding of the underlying trading and financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          23
KPI/Measure Purpose Definition/Calculation Unit
Data  
source 2010 2009
Innovation and growth continued
Revenue from 
new products
Measures Vitec’s 
ability to grow by 
innovation
Revenue for each month of the financial year from 
products launched in the previous 36 months 
divided by total product revenue of the financial 
year times 100%
Products launched: includes new products
and re-launched modified existing products
New products: includes brand new products 
manufactured by Vitec and major upgrades,
but not restyling or replacements
Launch date: date first external revenue achieved
Total product revenue: total Vitec revenue 
excluding the Services Division
and Brilliant Stages
Exclude acquisitions in the financial year
% of revenue Audited accounts and 
internal reports from  
Vitec Business Units
46.8% 39.2%
Monitoring our environmental impact
(1)
Usage of electricity
Usage of gas
Usage of oil
Usage of water
Monitor
electricity, gas,
oil and water 
consumption
Amount of electricity consumed in the
financial year divided by total revenue for
the financial year
Amount of gas consumed in the financial
year divided by total revenue for the
financial year
Amount of heating oil consumed in the financial 
year divided by total revenue for the financial year
Amount of water consumed in the financial
year divided by total revenue for the financial year
Excludes consumption from acquisitions in
the financial year; prior year amounts adjusted 
from previous Annual Report to include 
acquisitions in that year and to reflect more 
accurate information gathering
megawatt 
hours
(1)
megawatt 
hours
(1)
‘000 litres
(1)
‘000 cubic 
metres
(1)
Internal reports from  
Vitec Business Units
32.68
26.66
0.03
0.09
35.20
25.38
0.03
0.10
Employees and safety
Number of 
employee 
accidents
(3)
Track changes in 
health and safety 
performance as 
it directly impacts 
hours worked per
employee
Rate of non-fatal workplace injuries leading
to absences from work of more than three
days in the financial year
rate per 
100,000 
employees  
per year
Internal reports from  
Vitec Business Units
525
(3)
511
The Group believes that its Key Performance Indicators and Other Measures must remain relevant to the needs of the business  
and they will therefore be subject to refinement and change from time to time in accordance with the needs of the business.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  
and Other Measures Michael Harper BSc Eng, MSc
Chairman, non-executive, British, aged 
66, appointed to the Board on 14 June 
2004, became Chairman on 1 November 
2004; and Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee. Currently Chairman of BBA 
Aviation plc and Ricardo plc. Until June 
2010, he was a director of Catlin plc and 
was formerly Chief Executive of Kidde plc, 
having previously held senior roles at both  
Williams plc and Vickers plc.
Stephen Bird MA
Group Chief Executive, British, aged 50, 
appointed to the Board on 14 April 2009. 
He is a non-executive director of Umeco 
plc. Previously he was Divisional Managing 
Director of Weir Oil & Gas, part of Weir 
Group plc. Prior to this he has worked  
in senior roles at Danaher Corporation, 
Black & Decker, Unipart Group,  
Hepworth PLC and Technicolor Group.
Jon Bolton FCIS, LLB
Group Company Secretary, British, 
aged 44, appointed on 1 October 2008. 
Previously Group Company Secretary of 
Waste Recycling Group. Prior to this he 
was Deputy Company Secretary at Cable 
& Wireless and worked at GlaxoSmithKline.
Simon Beresford-Wylie BA
Non-executive, independent, British, aged 
52, appointed to the Board on 1 March 
2006; member of the Audit Committee 
and the Nominations Committee and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
Appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
Elster Group SE in 2009. Previously 
Chief Executive Officer of Nokia Siemens 
Networks and member of the Nokia Group 
Executive Board having joined the Nokia 
Group in 1998 from Indian mobile operator 
Modi Telstra (Pte. Ltd.), where he was  
Chief Executive Officer. Prior to that he  
held various management positions  
within Telstra’s Corporate and  
Government Business Unit.
Nigel Moore FCA
Non-executive, independent, British, aged 
66, appointed to the Board on 1 March 
2004; Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
member of the Nominations Committee 
and of the Remuneration Committee. He 
is currently Chairman of The TEG Group 
plc, a director of Hochschild Mining plc, 
JKX Oil & Gas plc, Ascent Resources plc, 
Intelligent Comms Ltd, and Production 
Services Network Ltd. Formerly a London 
based partner of Ernst & Young, where 
he was client service partner for London 
International PLC and the UK operations  
of Coca Cola.
Maria Richter BA, JD
Non-executive, independent, dual 
American and Panamanian, aged 56, 
appointed to the Board on 28 February 
2007; member of the Audit Committee, 
the Nominations Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee. She is 
currently a director of National Grid plc, 
The Pantry Inc and The Bessemer Group 
Incorporated. She is a director of Pro Mujer 
International and Chairman of the Board 
of Trustees of Pro Mujer UK. Previously 
with Morgan Stanley for nine years, most 
recently as Managing Director of the 
Corporate Finance Retail Group. Prior to 
that she held senior positions with Salomon 
Brothers, Prudential Capital Corporation 
and Power Funding Associates.
Will Wyatt CBE, BA 
Non-executive, independent, British,  
aged 69, appointed to the Board on 10 
June 2002; Senior Independent Director; 
member of the Audit Committee, the 
Nominations Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee. He is Chairman 
of Racecourse Media Group Ltd and 
Racecourse Media Services Ltd and a 
director of Amalgamated Racing Ltd.  
He is Chairman of the Teaching Awards 
Trust and a trustee of the Services Sound 
and Vision Corporation. Formerly Chairman 
of the University of Arts and Chief Executive, 
BBC Broadcast and deputy to the Director 
General. Other posts within the BBC 
included Managing Director of Network 
Television and Head of Documentaries  
and Features.
24          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Board of Directors
1 Michael Harper
2 Stephen Bird
3 Simon Beresford-Wylie
4 Will Wyatt
5 Maria Richter
6 Nigel Moore
7 Jon Bolton
5
1
6
3
4
7
2 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          25
Jillian Edelstien | Photographer
Jillian was born and educated in Cape Town and began her career as a press 
photographer in Johannesburg. Since her arrival in London in 1985, she has produced 
portraits for some of the world’s leading publications such as Vanity Fair and The New 
York Times. Her subjects have included Nelson Mandela, Woody Allen, Helena Bonham-
Carter and Vanessa Redgrave to name but a few. The National Portrait Gallery currently 
hold over ninety of Jillian’s portraits, and in 2009 held a solo exhibition of her work.
“I love using my Manfrotto 
tripod - I have taken mine up 
mountains, rocks, on beaches, 
and through some seriously 
dusty locations. It has taken 
the weight of my large and 
medium format cameras and 
helped me create some of my 
most treasured images. It feels 
like it has been made to last... 
and it’s done just that.” 26          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report continued
 31 December  1 January  
Directors’ shareholdings 2010  2010
Chairman    
Michael Harper 35,000 35,000
Executive Directors    
Stephen Bird 56,185
(1)
 30,000
(1)
Richard Cotton (resigned on 4 February 2011) 31,753
(2)
 13,196
(2)
Non-executive Directors    
Simon Beresford-Wylie 4,143 4,000
Nigel Moore 15,470 15,470
Maria Richter 4,000 4,000
Will Wyatt 2,998 2,875
  149,549 104,541
(1)
  Includes 26,185 shares purchased in the market using funds supplied by 
Stephen Bird and held by EES Trustees International Limited, the trustee 
used to hold shares in respect of awards made under the Vitec Group 2005 
Deferred Bonus Plan.
(2)
  Includes 18,228 shares purchased in the market using funds supplied by  
Richard Cotton and held by EES Trustees International Limited, the trustee 
used to hold shares in respect of awards made under the Vitec Group 2005 
Deferred Bonus Plan.
Share capital
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in Note 23 to 
the Consolidated Accounts. An analysis of shareholdings is shown 
on page 104. The closing middle market price of a share of the 
Company on 31 December 2010, the last day of dealing in 2010, 
together with the range during the year, is also shown on page 
104. For details of own shares held by the Company see Note 23 
to the Consolidated Accounts.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association were updated at  
the Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2010, to take 
account of the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006.  
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended  
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 2 March 2011, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests of 3% or more of the voting rights of its issued 
share capital:
   
 Number of 
 voting rights %
Harris Associates 6,473,479 15.00
Delta Lloyd Asset Management 5,155,085 11.94
Manfrotto S.A. 4,841,591 11.22
Franklin Templeton 4,778,121 11.07
M&G Investment Management 3,910,234 9.06
Schroder Investment Management 3,025,845 7.01
Legal & General 1,624,468 3.76
Directors
The directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2010  
were Michael Harper, Stephen Bird, Richard Cotton (resigned  
with effect from 4 February 2011), Simon Beresford-Wylie,  
Nigel Moore, Maria Richter and Will Wyatt. The remuneration  
of the directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages  
28 to 35. Photographs and biographies of the current directors  
are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Directors’ shareholdings
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, 
executive directors are required to build up, over a reasonable 
period of time, a substantial holding of shares in the Company 
equal to 100% of salary. Other members of the Operations 
Executive are also encouraged to do so. The value of holdings by 
the executive directors at 31 December 2010 represented 91% 
and 72% of the base salaries of Stephen Bird and Richard Cotton 
respectively, calculated by reference to the closing middle market 
price of a share of the Company on 31 December 2010, the last 
dealing day of 2010, which was 585p.
The table opposite sets out the beneficial interests in the 
Company’s shares of those persons who were directors at  
the end of the financial year. The interests are shown as at  
31 December 2010 and 1 January 2010. Details of the directors’ 
other interests in the Company’s shares are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 35. Other than this,  
there have been no other changes to these interests in the  
period from 31 December 2010 to 2 March 2011. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          27
Committees of the Board
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations 
Committee and a Remuneration Committee. Details of those 
Committees, including membership, terms of reference and  
their activities, are contained in the Corporate Governance  
section of this Annual Report and in the Remuneration Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
The Group’s report on social, environmental and ethical matters 
is set out on pages 36 to 39. The Group has policies in respect 
of the following key areas: health and safety; risk and fraud; 
employment; whistleblowing; the environment; human rights; 
community impact and involvement; and relationships with 
suppliers and customers and other stakeholders. It regularly 
reviews those policies and revises them as and when necessary.
The Group’s Remuneration Report is set out on pages 28 to 35.
Corporate Governance
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages 40  
to 47.
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance  
and Indemnification of Directors
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each 
of its directors to the extent permitted by law. Qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 324 of the Companies 
Act 2006) were adopted on 16 March 2009 and remain in force  
in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors  
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors  
of the Company.
Donations
During 2010, charitable donations totalling £44,030 (2009: 
£158,601) were made by Group companies. No donations were 
made to any political party. For further information on donations 
refer to the section on Community giving, set out in the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report on pages 36 and 37.
Payments to creditors
It continues to be the Group’s policy that the Company and 
individual subsidiary companies are responsible for negotiating 
terms and conditions under which suppliers operate. Once 
agreed, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with 
those terms and conditions, subject always to the supplier having 
complied with them. That policy will continue for the financial  
year ending 31 December 2011. For the financial year ended  
31 December 2010, the Group paid its creditors on average  
within 44 days (2009: 41 days). 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting for 2011 will be held at 10.30am 
on Thursday 19 May 2011 at the offices of Financial Dynamics, 
Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees will be 
in attendance at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions 
from shareholders.
The Company will be making use of the electronic voting facility 
provided by its registrars, Capita Registrars. The facility includes 
CREST voting for members holding their shares in uncertificated 
form. For further information, please refer to the section on Online 
services and electronic voting set out on page 104.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and an explanation  
of the resolutions to be put to the meeting are set out in the  
Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG Audit plc, are willing to continue in office. 
Separate resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting  
to re-appoint the auditors and to authorise the Board to agree 
their remuneration.
By order of the Board
Jon Bolton 
Group Company Secretary
2 March 2011
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Directors’ Report 
(pages 1 to 27) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk 
factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in 
which the Group operates. It is believed that the expectations reflected in 
these statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range 
of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated. 28          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report 
Remuneration Report
This Report contains the information required under the Listing 
Rules, the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and 
under the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. A 
resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the 19 May 
2011 Annual General Meeting. The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee will be available to answer questions about the 
directors’ remuneration at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee
Throughout 2010, the Remuneration Committee comprised Simon 
Beresford-Wylie, Nigel Moore, Maria Richter and Will Wyatt. With 
effect from 3 June 2010, Will Wyatt stood down after five years 
as Chairman of the Committee and Simon Beresford-Wylie was 
appointed in his place. As at the date of this report Will Wyatt 
continues to serve as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, 
the Senior Independent Director and also as a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, determines the remuneration packages, including base 
salaries, bonus arrangements, participation in incentive schemes, 
pension contributions and all other benefits received by the 
executive directors. In the event of the termination of employment 
of the executive directors, the Committee also determines any 
compensation payments, after taking appropriate legal advice.
The Committee on behalf of the Board, within its terms 
of reference, oversees the framework of senior executive 
remuneration, including members of the Operations Executive, 
including terms of service, pay structure, annual cash bonus  
and share incentive arrangements and all other benefits.
The Chairman, Michael Harper, the Group Chief Executive, 
Stephen Bird, and the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, 
attended meetings by invitation of the Committee in the year 
ended 31 December 2010. The executive directors or the Group 
Company Secretary are not present when their own remuneration 
is being considered. The remuneration of the Chairman and 
the non-executive directors is determined by the Board as a 
whole, with the Chairman or the relevant non-executive director 
abstaining when his or her remuneration is considered.  
For further information regarding governance for the  
Remuneration Committee see pages 44 and 45.
Remuneration policy
Remuneration packages are formulated to attract, retain and 
motivate executive directors and senior executives of the quality 
required, without being excessive, by reference to salary and 
benefit surveys supplied by one or more external sources.  
They take into account the responsibilities and risks involved 
and remuneration packages in comparable companies that have 
similar scale international operations. During the year ended  
31 December 2010, the Committee received advice from Towers 
Watson as the Committee’s appointed remuneration advisor.  
This advice related to disclosures in the 2009 Remuneration  
Report, measurement of performance conditions associated 
with long-term incentive arrangements, changes to performance 
conditions associated with long-term incentive arrangements, a 
proposal to re-balance the senior executive Annual Cash Bonus 
Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan and general remuneration 
advice. The fee paid to Towers Watson for this service in 2010 
was £47,578. Towers Watson also provides pensions advice 
and pensions administrative services to the Company. Towers 
Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and is committed to the Group's voluntary code of practice for 
remuneration consultants in the UK. The Committee also received 
advice and administrative support from the Group Company 
Secretary, Jon Bolton. 
Since 2004 the Company has made available to all UK based 
employees, including executive directors, a Group personal 
pension plan. Prior to this the Company had in place defined 
benefit Group and Executive pension schemes, both of which 
were closed to new members at the end of 2003 and merged in 
2005. The defined benefit pension scheme was closed to future 
accrual with effect from 31 July 2010 following consultation 
with the active members and trustee. All active members of the 
scheme were given the opportunity to join the Group personal 
pension plan. Up to the pensions earnings cap, retirement benefits 
are provided through an approved retirement benefit scheme.
Executive directors’ service contracts do not provide for pre-
determined amounts of compensation in the event of early 
termination by the Company. The Committee’s policy in the event 
of early termination of employment is to mitigate compensation  
to the fullest extent practicable.
The Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the individual 
and the Company for an executive director to take up one 
external non-executive appointment. Remuneration received by 
an executive director in respect of such an external appointment 
would be retained by the director. Stephen Bird is a non-executive 
director of Umeco plc, a position he has held since October 2006. 
In this capacity, Stephen Bird receives a basic fee of £35,000 per 
annum and an additional fee of £5,000 per annum as Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee currently has no intention of amending the above 
stated policy for 2011, although it will be reviewed from time  
to time.
Chairman and the other non-executive directors
The Chairman and the other non-executive directors do not have 
service contracts but have letters of appointment. The initial period 
of their appointments is three years but their appointments may, 
by mutual consent and with the approval of the Nominations 
Committee and the Board, be extended for a further three years. 
Appointments may be extended beyond six years by mutual 
consent and with the approval of the Nominations Committee  
and the Board if it is in the interests of the Company to do so. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          29
Executive directors
The executive directors’ remuneration comprises a basic salary,  
an annual cash bonus, long-term share incentives, a company 
vehicle or cash allowance, fuel where a company vehicle is 
provided, medical insurance, membership of the Group’s 
pension scheme or a contribution to their own personal pension 
arrangement and life assurance. A contribution towards a 
permanent health arrangement for Stephen Bird has been  
made since his appointment on 14 April 2009. 
For 2010 under the Annual Cash Bonus Plan, the executive 
directors can receive for stretch performance up to 100% of basic 
salary, 75% of which is based on Company financial performance 
and 25% of which is based on individual performance measured 
against personal objectives set by the Board and Remuneration 
Committee. 50% of the total Annual Cash Bonus in 2010 is 
based upon the actual achievement of Group Profit Before Tax 
and 25% of the total is based upon the actual achievement of 
Group Working Capital to Sales target measured against the 
2010 budget as set by the Board. The Remuneration Committee 
considers that these two financial performance targets have the 
most direct impact upon shareholder value. The Remuneration 
Committee does not publish specific details of these financial 
targets since it believes they are commercially sensitive and that 
it would not be in the Company’s interests to do so. For both 
financial elements of the 2010 Annual Cash Bonus Plan the 
following trigger points were used:
• 90% or less of budget – Threshold - resulting in  
no payout;
• 95% of budget – Target - resulting in half of the  
maximum paying out;
• 105% or more of budget – Stretch – resulting in  
maximum payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operates between each of  
the above points.
The Remuneration Committee may use its absolute discretion 
in connection with the Annual Cash Bonus Plan, enabling it 
to reduce or increase payments up to the maximum limit in 
exceptional circumstances or where an outcome would have  
an undesirable effect.
The Remuneration Committee, when determining the executive 
directors’ remuneration, takes into account remuneration and 
employment terms and conditions, including levels of pay for 
employees of the Company.
The following chart shows the balance between fixed and variable 
elements of the remuneration package for executive directors in 
2011 assuming target performance:
The normal retirement age of executive directors is 65. There 
are no special provisions in respect of early retirement for the 
executive directors.
Stephen Bird, appointed a director and Group Chief Executive 
of the Company on 14 April 2009, aged 50, is employed under 
a service contract dated 28 January 2009. The notice period by 
the Company under his contract is 12 months and notice by the 
employee to the Company is six months. He also participates in 
the Annual Cash Bonus Plan for 2011 that may deliver a maximum 
bonus of 100% of salary. For 2011 the Annual Cash Bonus Plan 
for Stephen Bird is structured so that 70% of the total is based 
on achievement of financial results (two thirds based on Group 
Profit Before Tax and one third based on Group Working Capital 
to Sales targets measured against the 2011 budget as approved 
by the Board) and 30% of the total is based on achievement of 
personal objectives as set by the Board and based on achievement 
of strategic objectives. For 2011, the Remuneration Committee 
decided to increase the percentage of Annual Cash Bonus allocated 
to personal objectives to give greater focus to the achievement of 
specific strategic objectives particularly around achievement of the 
three market growth strategy. The financial targets are unchanged 
from those used in 2010 other than being set against the 2011 
budget since they are considered to have the most direct impact 
upon shareholder value. For the financial results element the 
following trigger points will be used for Group Profit Before Tax:
• 95% or less of budget – Threshold - resulting in no payout;
• 100% of budget – Target - resulting in half of the maximum 
paying out;
• 110% of budget – Stretch – resulting in maximum payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the  
above points.
For the Working Capital to Sales element, the Stretch trigger  
point will be 107.5% of the 2011 budget.
Fixed and variable pay elements for 2011
Fixed pay elements Variable pay elements
Pension
7% of total 
remuneration
Salary
36% of total remuneration
Other Benefits  
(inc. car allowance)
3% of total remuneration
Long Term Incentives
36% of total remuneration
Annual Cash Bonus
18% of total remuneration 30          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Remuneration Committee will retain an absolute discretion in 
connection with the Annual Cash Bonus Plan for 2011, enabling 
it to reduce or increase payments up to the maximum limit in 
exceptional circumstances or where an outcome would have  
an undesirable effect.
The Company may, in the event of termination of employment, 
pay a sum in lieu of notice equal to 12 months’ gross basic salary 
together with the gross value of other benefits that he is entitled 
to receive under his service contract, but excluding any bonus or 
share options which are not granted, do not vest or cannot be 
exercised in accordance with the rules of such schemes.
Richard Cotton, appointed a director on 3 November 2008, aged 
50, was employed during the year ended 31 December 2010 
under a service contract dated 17 September 2008. The notice 
period by the Company under the contract is 12 months and 
notice by the employee to the Company is six months. Richard 
Cotton ceased to be a director and employee of the Company on 
4 February 2011. The Company may, in the event of termination 
of employment, pay a sum in lieu of notice equal to 12 months’ 
gross basic salary together with the gross value of other benefits 
that he is entitled to receive under his service contract, but 
excluding any bonus or share options which are not granted, do 
not vest or cannot be exercised in accordance with the rules of 
such schemes. In connection with Richard Cotton’s termination 
of employment, the Company will make 12 monthly payments of 
salary and pension contributions, subject to being stopped upon 
Richard Cotton finding alternative employment. Richard Cotton  
will also receive:
•  12 monthly payments of £400 per month in lieu of Private  
Health Insurance;
•  A contribution of £5,621 for private healthcare cover;
•  A company car with a value of £20,000;
•  Outplacement support up to a value of £30,000;
•  Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan awards  
will be pro rated to the date of leaving and subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions will vest on the third 
anniversary of each respective award; and
•  Sharesave will be treated in accordance with the rules  
of that Scheme.
Salaries for Stephen Bird and Richard Cotton were increased to 
£371,000 and £265,000 respectively with effect from 1 January 
2011. Salaries will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee 
in December 2011 for 2012 taking into account several factors 
including Company and individual performance, pay increases for 
the Company’s employees, market rates for executive directors' 
remuneration and prevailing economic conditions at that time.
Incentive arrangements
The Company has the following long-term incentive arrangements 
in place.
The Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used to make 
awards to the executive directors and the other members of the 
Operations Executive and also to the Group’s senior management 
below the level of the Operations Executive as envisaged when 
shareholder approval was received. The level of awards for the 
executive directors in 2010 were one times salary, based on the 
Company’s share price at the date of award. The same level 
of award will be made in 2011. Awards for the Group’s senior 
management are based on a specific number of shares,  
but which does not exceed one times salary.
The Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used in connection 
with bonuses paid since then arising from the Annual Cash Bonus 
Plan and will be used in 2011 and future years.
The Unapproved Share Option Plan was approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2002 and grants 
of share options were made in June 2005 and March 2008 to 
the executive directors and the other members of the Operations 
Executive. No grants of share options under the Plan have been 
made since 2008 and none are currently planned.
The performance conditions for awards under the Long 
Term Incentive Plan, the Deferred Bonus Plan and under the 
Unapproved Share Option Plan are set out in detail below.
Monitoring and measuring of the performance conditions take 
place following the end of each year when the Company’s 
results have been audited and again at the end of the relevant 
performance period for options and awards. The Chairman and 
the non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the 
Company’s share incentive schemes and consequently they do 
not hold any share options or other share incentives.
Awards and grants under the Group’s incentive arrangements  
are within the overall flow limits advised by the Association of 
British Insurers to limit potential dilution arising from the issue  
of new shares.
Performance targets and vesting levels are reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee each time an award is made to  
ensure that they remain sufficiently demanding and are aligned 
with long-term shareholder interests.
Remuneration Report continued  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          31
Unapproved Share Option Plan
Executive directors and other senior executives are selected to 
receive options over shares. The price of an option over shares 
is fixed at the date of grant at the prevailing market price of the 
Company’s shares at that time. Exercise of an option is subject 
to growth in the Company’s earnings per share, excluding 
exceptional or extraordinary items. Options are exercisable 
between the third and the tenth anniversaries of their dates  
of grant subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
Performance condition: Options granted in 2005 use the following 
condition. If the percentage growth in the earnings per share of the 
Company, after adjustments for exceptional or extraordinary items, 
exceeds the percentage growth in the Retail Prices Index over the 
three-year performance period by 6% (the base target threshold), 
an option will become exercisable in respect of one third of the 
shares over which it is held. Full vesting takes place when such 
growth over the performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 
12% or greater.
For options granted in 2008 the performance condition was 
revised and was set at RPI+9% for minimum vesting and 
RPI+30% for full vesting.
A sliding scale operates for performance between the lower and 
upper thresholds. Options lapse if the base target threshold is  
not achieved by the end of the three-year performance period. 
There is no re-testing of performance. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
Executive directors and other senior employees are selected to 
receive awards over shares that vest in whole or in part depending 
on the satisfaction of a performance condition. For awards made 
before 2010 under the Plan this performance condition is based 
on the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) over a period of 
three years, relative to a comparator group of other companies. 
The comparator group comprises companies of similar market 
capitalisation and having at least 50% of their turnover arising 
outside of the UK. Due to the size of the comparator group 
(approximately 60 in total), it is not practical to detail it fully in 
this report. The Company Secretary can provide this detail if 
required. The Remuneration Committee reviews the composition 
of the comparator group in conjunction with its remuneration 
consultants, Towers Watson, annually ahead of awards to 
determine that it is relevant and sufficiently demanding. 
For awards made from 2010 the Remuneration Committee, 
having consulted with major shareholders, decided to amend the 
performance condition to provide a more meaningful measure of 
performance. 50% of an award will continue to be measured based 
upon TSR as described above. However, 50% of an award is 
subject to growth in the Company’s earnings per share, excluding 
exceptional or extraordinary items. Each performance condition is 
entirely independent from the other performance condition.
Performance condition: For that part of an award measured 
against TSR, if the Company’s TSR performance is at the median 
of the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance 
period, 35% of that element of an award may vest. The full 
element of an award may vest if the Company’s TSR performance 
is in the top 20% of the comparator group. There is pro rata 
straight line vesting between these two points. For that part of 
an award measured against EPS growth made in 2010, if the 
percentage growth in the EPS of the Company, after adjustments 
for exceptional or extraordinary items, exceeds the percentage 
growth in RPI over the three-year performance period by 4% 
(Compound Average Growth Rate), 35% of that element of an 
award may vest. Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth 
in EPS over the performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 
8% (Compound Average Growth Rate) or greater. There is pro 
rata straight line vesting between these two points. An award 
lapses if the lower point under both performance conditions 
is not achieved during the performance period and there is no 
re-testing of performance under either performance condition. 
The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying 
financial performance of the Company before it confirms vesting. 
For awards to be made in 2011 the Remuneration Committee 
will consider EPS growth figures, taking into account market 
consensus figures, advice from its corporate broker and internal 
forecasts. The Remuneration Committee considers the constituents 
of the TSR comparator group and minimum and maximum EPS 
growth rates annually ahead of each award to ensure that they 
remain relevant and challenging.
Dividends that would have been paid on the vesting shares during 
the performance period will be re-invested in additional shares.
Deferred Bonus Plan
Executive directors and members of the Operations Executive are 
required to defer a proportion of any cash bonuses in exchange 
for receiving a core award over shares in the Company with 
a value equivalent, at the date of award, to the amount of the 
deferred bonus. For bonuses earned in 2010 a minimum of 20% 
for executive directors and 15% for the Operations Executive 
members. However, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, the executive may voluntarily decide to defer a 
higher proportion up to a maximum of 100% of any bonus paid 
under the annual bonus scheme. A core award may, in normal 
circumstances, be exercised by a participant after two years. 
However, if exercise is deferred for three years and the executive 
remains employed by the Group, and subject to satisfaction of 
the performance condition, the participant is entitled to receive a 
matching award of additional shares up to the number comprised 
in the core award. Shares comprising core awards are purchased 
in the market and held in trust by EES Trustees International Ltd 
until exercise. Dividends that would have been paid on the core 
award of shares and the actual matching shares that vest during 
the performance period are re-invested in additional shares.  32          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Performance condition: For awards under the Plan made before 
2010, if the executive remains in employment for three years, and 
if in that period the Company’s TSR relative to a comparator group 
of other companies is at median, or above, of the comparator 
group, the deferred core shares will be matched at the rate of:
• one share for every three shares at median performance; and
• one share for every one share within the top 20% performance.
There will be pro rata straight line vesting between these points. 
The comparator group comprises the same group used for the 
Long Term Incentive Plan.
For awards under the Plan made from 2010 the performance 
condition has changed to the same as applies to the Long Term 
Incentive Plan. There is no re-testing of performance under either 
performance condition.
Clawback
The Remuneration Committee has introduced a clawback policy 
that applies to any award made under the Annual Bonus Plan, 
Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan or Share Option 
Plan for any awards made from 2011 onwards. Under the policy 
any executive director or senior executive found to have benefited 
from an award due to inappropriate behaviour or acts including 
material misstatement or misconduct or a material ethical breach 
against the Company’s Code of Business Conduct may have the 
after-tax value of that award clawed back.
Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan
The Group operates a savings related share option Scheme in 
the UK and a similar international Plan in respect of overseas 
employees in certain countries. The Scheme and Plan are open 
to all the Group’s employees in those countries, including the 
executive directors. Under the Scheme and Plan, participants 
contract for either a three-year or five-year term to save a set 
amount each month (£250 maximum) in return for which they 
receive an option over a specified number of shares. The price 
of an option over shares is fixed at the date of grant and, in the 
UK, has a 20% discount to the market price. In other countries 
the discount applied is either the same or less to reflect local 
regulations. At the end of the savings period, participants may 
exercise their options to buy shares in the Company using their 
savings. Exercise is not subject to any performance condition.
Invitations under the Group’s Sharesave arrangements are usually 
made annually and these are planned to continue.
The existing Rules for the Scheme and Plan were approved by 
shareholders in April 2002 and expire on the 10th anniversary.  
A renewal of the rules will therefore be sought from shareholders 
at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Five-year share price performance 2006-2010
Under the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002, the Company is required to include a graph 
showing the Company’s performance compared to an appropriate 
index over a five-year period. Set out below, the graph illustrates 
the Company’s annual total shareholder return (share price growth 
plus dividends that have been declared, paid and re-invested in 
the Company’s shares) relative to the FTSE Small Cap, FTSE All 
Share Media and FTSE Industrial Engineering Index for the five-
year period 2006-2010, assuming an initial investment of £100.
 
To produce a ‘fair value’ each point is a 30 trading day average  
of the indices. TSR data is taken from Datastream. 
The following information has been audited.
Directors’ remuneration
Michael Harper, Chairman, is currently paid a fee at the rate of 
£120,000 per annum. This was increased from £110,000 per 
annum on 1 July 2010. On 1 July 2010, the fee payable to the 
other non-executive directors was increased from £36,000 per 
annum to £40,000 per annum. The increase in fees was to reflect 
the time commitment required of each director in connection with 
the discharge of their duties, to reflect market rates and to be able 
to attract and retain directors of the right calibre. The chairmen 
of the Remuneration Committee and of the Audit Committee, 
Simon Beresford-Wylie and Nigel Moore respectively, receive an 
additional fee for their services as chairmen of those Committees. 
Simon Beresford-Wylie receives an additional £5,000 per annum 
and Nigel Moore receives an additional £8,000 per annum. An 
additional fee of £2,200 is also paid to the Senior Independent 
Director, Will Wyatt. These additional fees were approved in  
June 2008 and were unaltered in 2010. Fees for the Chairman  
Remuneration Report continued 
200
150
100
250
50
300
£
£
31 Dec 
2005
31 Dec 
2006
31 Dec 
2007
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
50
100
150
200
250
31 Dec 
2004
31 Dec 
2005
31 Dec 
2006
31 Dec 
2007
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE All Share Media
FTSE Industrial Engineering Index
The Vitec Group
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE All Share Media
FTSE Industrial Engineering Index
The Vitec Group plc The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          33
and the other non-executive directors will be reviewed on an 
annual basis but there is no commitment to increase fees annually.  
The non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits  
from the Company.
Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive, currently receives an annual 
salary of £371,000, increased from £360,500 with effect from 
1 January 2011. Stephen Bird is not a member of the Group 
Personal Pension Plan, but receives a contribution of 20% of his 
basic salary in the form of an alternative pension contribution. 
Stephen Bird was paid a bonus of £355,994 in respect of 2010 
based upon an assessment of the achievement of financial and 
personal objectives for 2010. The financial objectives represented 
75% of the bonus and comprised Group Profit Before Tax 
representing 50% of the total and Group Working Capital to  
Sales targets representing 25% of the total measured against  
the 2010 budget. For both financial objectives, the following 
trigger points were used:
• 90% or less of budget - Threshold - resulting in no payout;
• 95% of budget - Target - resulting in half of the maximum  
paying out;
• 105% or more of budget - Stretch - resulting in maximum 
payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operating between each of the  
above points.
Both financial targets were fully achieved. 25% of the bonus 
was set against personal objectives set by the Board and tied 
to achievement of Group strategy and the development of the 
senior management team and succession plans. These personal 
objectives were 95% achieved. 
Stephen Bird will be eligible for a performance related bonus 
based on the Company’s financial performance and personal 
objectives for the year ending 31 December 2011, of up to 100% 
of base salary.
Richard Cotton, Group Finance Director for the year under review, 
received an annual salary of £257,500. This was increased to 
£265,000 with effect 1 January 2011. Richard Cotton was not 
a member of the Group Personal Pension Plan, but had his 
own personal pension arrangement into which the Company 
contributed 20% of his basic salary. Richard Cotton was paid a 
bonus of £254,281 in respect of 2010 based upon an assessment 
of the achievement of financial and personal objectives for 2010. 
The financial objectives represented 75% of the bonus and were 
the same as described for Stephen Bird. These targets were fully 
achieved. 25% of the bonus was set against personal objectives 
set by the Board and tied to achievement of the Group strategy, 
improvements in the risk and control environment for the Group, 
development of investor relations and the re-structuring of  
UK pension arrangements. These personal objectives were  
95% achieved.
Details of the directors’ remuneration for 2010 with comparatives 
for 2009 are set out in the following tables:
(1)
  The principal benefits are a Company vehicle or a cash allowance, fuel where a Company vehicle is provided, medical insurance and life assurance. 
      Performance  Pension 
  Salaries and    related  related 
  fees  Benefits
1 
 annual bonus  remuneration  Total
                    
  2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
Director’s name £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman                    
Michael Harper 115,000 110,000 - - - - - - 115,000 110,000
Executive Directors                    
Stephen Bird 360,500 250,568 24,352 14,336 355,994 172,069 72,100 50,114 812,946 487,087 
(joined on 14 April 2009) 
Richard Cotton 257,500 250,000 17,376 16,820 254,281 119,781 51,500 50,000 580,657 436,601 
(left on 4 February 2011) 
Alastair Hewgill  - 206,957 - 18,118 - 150,219 - 23,860 - 399,154 
(left on 14 October 2009)
Non-executive Directors                    
Simon Beresford-Wylie 40,917 36,000 - - - - - - 40,917 36,000
Nigel Moore 46,000 44,000 - - - - - - 46,000 44,000
Maria Richter 38,000 36,000 - - - - - - 38,000 36,000
Will Wyatt 42,283 43,200 - - - - - - 42,283 43,200
Total  900,200 976,725 41,728 49,274 610,275 442,069 123,600 123,974 1,675,803 1,592,042 34          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
   Options Options Options   Market 
  At exercised lapsed granted At 31  price at   
  1 January during during during December Exercise exercise Date from 
Directors’  Date of 2010 year year year 2010 price date which Expiry  
share options grant (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence) exercisable date
Stephen Bird
SAYE options May 2009 6,984 - - - 6,984 131 - Jul 2012 Dec 2012
Richard Cotton
(left on 4 February 2011)
SAYE options May 2009 6,984 - - - 6,984 131 - Jul 2012 Dec 2012 
Alastair Hewgill 
(1)
                    
 Jun 2005 63,333 63,333 - - - 300 430 Jun 2008 Oct 2011
 Mar 2008 23,165 - - - 23,165 512 - Oct 2009 Oct 2011
  100,466 63,333 - - 37,133
The share price at the end of the year and the highest and lowest prices during the year are shown in Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar on page 104.
(1)
  Alastair Hewgill, who left the Company on 14 October 2009, made a gain of £82,333 on the exercise of his June 2005 Unapproved Share Options. The gain was 
calculated as the difference between the market price and the option price, multiplied by the number of shares at the exercise date.
Remuneration Report continued 
   Awards Awards Awards  Market Market 
  Awards at exercised lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
  1 January during during during December award exercise 
Awards under the  Date of 2010 the year  the year the year 2010 date  date 
Long Term Incentive Plan award (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird  
 Apr 2009 200,286 - - - 200,286 175 -
 Mar 2010 - - - 94,619 94,619 381 -
Richard Cotton  
(left on 4 February 2011)
 Apr 2009 143,062 - - - 143,062 175 -
 Mar 2010 - - - 67,585 67,585 381 -
   343,348   162,204 505,552   
Directors’ long term incentives  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          35
   Awards Awards Awards  Market Market 
  Awards at exercised lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
  1 January during during during December award exercise 
Awards under the  Date of 2010 the year  the year the year 2010 date  date 
Deferred Bonus Plan award (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird                
  Mar 2010             
  Core -  - - 26,185 26,185 385 -
 Matching - - - 26,185 26,185 385 -
Richard Cotton 
(left on 4 February 2011)
 Mar 2010             
 Core - - - 18,228 18,228 385 -
 Matching - - - 18,228 18,228 385 -
     88,826 88,826
(1)
  There is a performance condition attached to the matching awards. For the purposes of this table and footnotes, where the award has not yet been finally 
performance tested, 100% vesting is assumed.
Other than as disclosed in the table footnotes, there have been no other changes to these interests in the period from 31 December 
2010 to 2 March 2011.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by
Jon Bolton 
Group Company Secretary 36          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Vitec has a considered approach to Corporate Social 
Responsibility surrounding its business activities worldwide.  
The Group continues to assess its responsibilities at local,  
national and global levels.
We recognise that Corporate Social Responsibility is central to 
sustainable growth, particularly as investors, customers and  
other stakeholders increasingly consider these non-financial  
issues in decision making. We want to be in the best position 
possible to minimise risks and identify and capitalise on the 
opportunities presented.
Key areas of focus for Vitec’s Corporate Social Responsibility are 
the environment, business ethics and human rights, health and 
safety and employment and community giving.
Specific responsibility for these matters has been delegated to 
senior employees within each of the Group’s Divisions. Reviews 
by local management take place at each location and reports are 
made of the major risks in these areas to the Company’s Board, 
through the Group Chief Executive who has ultimate responsibility 
for these matters. These reports identify risks, the current 
measures being taken to control them and the steps being  
taken to eradicate or minimise their effect in the future.
We report on our gas, electricity, water and oil consumption and 
accident statistics since these are the principal areas where our 
business impacts the environment and the communities within 
which we operate. The section on Key Performance Indicators  
and Other Measures on pages 22 and 23 sets out our 
performance in 2010 compared to 2009.
We are keen to receive feedback from all of our stakeholders 
and we will use their comments and views to shape our future 
Corporate Social Responsibility policies and practices. Please  
get in touch with us at info@vitecgroup.com with your comments.
Our policies
Climate change and our environmental impact
Policy 
The Group’s energy usage is closely monitored and the reduction 
of energy, water and waste used or generated throughout the 
Group is promoted, with the aim of reducing the environmental 
impacts of its operations, products and services. The approach 
taken to achieve this common aim varies throughout the Group 
depending on the nature of the work carried out at a business  
unit and the stage of development of a business unit’s 
environmental management systems.
The Group is not a big consumer of electricity compared to  
many other companies, however it is important that we monitor  
its usage and ensure that it is used efficiently both from a cost  
and environmental perspective.
New products introduced to our markets are developed to ensure 
they are energy efficient both in their production and, so far as 
they are able, in their use.
Crisis management plans are in place at all our operations and 
more detailed business continuity plans have been developed at 
our principal locations to ensure, so far as possible, that the effect 
on our operations is minimised in the event of a major occurrence 
caused by external events including climate change.
We encourage recycling of waste products, materials, paper and 
all other items that can be recycled. We encourage our businesses 
to reduce the quantities and thickness of cardboard and use 
alternative packaging wherever possible.
The Group’s gas, electricity and water usage over each of the last 
five years is set out in the table below. The figures in parentheses 
are the consumptions of gas, electricity and water (as appropriate) 
per £1.0 million of the Group’s revenue.
(1) 
 Units of measurement for gas and electricity are megawatt hours. For water 
they are cubic metres in 000s.
(2) 
 The usage of gas has increased by 3.2% in 2010 and of electricity and water 
has decreased by 8.8% and 11.0% respectively when compared to 2009. 
The effects of the disposal of Clear-Com were offset by higher production  
and opening of new businesses in Hong Kong and China.
Business ethics and our relationships with suppliers, 
customers and other stakeholders
Policy 
The Vitec Code of Business Conduct (the Code) covers the  
way in which we deal with employees, suppliers, customers, 
shareholders and our responsibility to society. The Code sets  
out our expectation of how the Group and its employees behave. 
It notably covers human rights, respect for the individual, health 
and safety, conflicts of interest, internet usage, record keeping, 
ethical conduct, gifts, bribery, compliance with laws and the 
environment. A copy of the Code is available on the Company’s 
website. All employees are required to comply with it and any 
violations of the Code are required to be reported to local 
management or the Group Company Secretary, as appropriate.  
If an employee feels that they want to report breaches anonymously, 
then the Group has put in place an independent, confidential 
whistleblowing service run through a third party provider, Expolink. 
All employees have been advised of the service and are encouraged 
to report any event in breach of the Code. Communication 
material on Expolink has been translated for each area of 
operation and is published on site notice boards and on the  
Group intranet. Reports through Expolink are independently 
investigated without fear of adverse consequences.
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Report
    Group 
Year Gas Electricity Water revenue
2006 7,879 (35.4) 10,159 (45.7) 30.5 (0.14) £222.3m
2007 8,102 (29.6) 11,082 (40.5) 33.2 (0.12) £273.8m
2008 8,613 (25.5) 12,505 (37.0) 36.3 (0.11) £337.7m
2009 7,996 (25.38) 11,091 (35.20) 30.9 (0.10) £315.1m
2010 8,252 (26.66) 10,117 (32.68) 27.5 (0.09) £309.6m The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          37
Vitec’s Code includes supply chain requirements. Suppliers  
are required to confirm compliance with Vitec’s standards.  
The Code contains an express prohibition on bribery or giving  
any kind of inducements.
We support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions on labour 
standards (addressing forced labour, freedom of association, 
discrimination and child labour).
Health and safety and employment
Policy 
The Group’s policy is to give the greatest importance to the 
health and safety of its employees and to comply with all relevant 
legislation and codes of practice relating to employment, health 
and safety and equal opportunities. In summary, this covers: good 
quality, safe working environments and facilities for employees and 
training and development appropriate to each of their roles; not to 
discriminate in any way; to take a flexible approach towards family 
responsibilities; to assist employees in establishing an appropriate 
work/life balance; and to provide a competitive range of quality 
employee benefits. The Board and senior management are 
committed to keeping the workforce informed of major events  
and developments within the Group.
In the design, construction, operation and maintenance of all the 
plant, equipment and facilities, it is the duty of management to  
do everything reasonably practical to prevent personal injuries.  
To this end, management provides personal protective equipment 
and protective clothing and courses are run regularly for 
employees. It is also the duty of every employee to exercise 
responsibility and to do everything reasonably practicable to 
prevent injury to himself/herself and others and for the prompt 
reporting of accidents and potential hazards.
Details of specific responsibilities for health and safety, together 
with other relevant health and safety information, are displayed  
on notice boards at each Group location.
Accident statistics and detailed accident reports are reviewed 
at each meeting of the Operations Executive, held monthly, and 
are reported to the main Board directors as part of their monthly 
management pack. Training is regularly carried out to educate 
employees on health and safety matters and safe systems  
of work.
Vitec has low staff turnover and levels of sickness are minimal 
across the Group. Vitec has an equal opportunities culture with  
no discrimination of any kind.
Community giving
Policy 
Vitec has for many years contributed to national and local 
communities in the countries in which we operate through 
donations, sponsorship and financial support for local charities.  
In addition, we encourage local employees to give their time to 
local causes and this is coupled with a matching element from  
the employer.
In 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries donated £44,030  
(2009 - £158,601) to charitable causes. Examples of donations in 
2010 included: The Company’s Head Office donated £14,000 to 
Kingston University’s Television and Video Technology department. 
The donation has been used to buy new equipment to re-fit and 
improve the University’s studio facility.
The Imaging & Staging Division donated e5,000 to Médecins  
Sans Frontières, who provide doctors who donate their holidays, 
in order to provide medical care for people in developing countries.
Anton/Bauer made various donations totalling $4,700 to local 
charities in the USA particularly focused on homeless shelters  
and local schools. 38          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Litepanels: helping broadcasters tackle global warming
Vitec is now reaping the benefit of acquiring Litepanels LED 
technology which saw rapid growth in sales during 2010.
LED studio lighting delivers up to 95% energy savings over 
traditional tungsten lighting and a single studio adopting LED 
technology can save 200,000 pounds of CO
²
 entering the 
environment annually. If even a third of the 25,000 medium to  
high power TV studios worldwide changed to Litepanels LED 
lighting, we would save 10 billion pounds of CO
²
 entering the 
environment over the next 6 years, the typical life of a constantly 
used LED light. That is equivalent to the CO
²
 absorbed by  
208 million mature trees.
The environmental benefit is matched by a financial one. Studios 
fitted with Litepanels, based upon our internal estimates, can save 
between £600 and £4,000 in energy costs per studio per month. 
If a third of all studios adopted Litepanels, the collective average 
savings would be £8.3 million per month or £600 million over  
the next 6 years.
Although 2010 saw a very significant increase in Litepanels sales 
to the broadcast and film industries, only a small proportion 
of studios worldwide currently utilise LEDs. There are great 
opportunities to grow this business and make a significant 
contribution to reducing energy emissions.
Litepanels: changing the way studios look at energy
Our pioneering Litepanels LED range is revolutionising the 
way in which broadcast and film studios use energy. They are 
dramatically cutting the amount of energy used and so helping  
the industry make its contribution to combating global warming.
The dramatic benefits which Litepanels bring are:
• Energy consumption is reduced by up to 95% over conventional 
tungsten systems and up to 75% over fluorescent systems;
• Air conditioning bills and related energy emissions are also 
greatly reduced;
• Litepanels bulbs last 50 times as long as tungsten so 
replacement costs are reduced; and
• LEDs have no hazardous materials which make disposal difficult 
– such as the mercury in fluorescent tubes. 
Litepanels are also smaller, lighter and much quicker to set up 
than traditional lighting. They produce flicker-free soft light with 
only a minimal colour-shift when dimmed.
To date global market penetration of LED systems in broadcasting 
and film studios is under 10%. However, with the importance of 
environmental considerations growing and with the significant 
commercial benefits the system brings, Litepanels, as market 
leader, is ideally positioned to support customers in accelerating 
their transition to LED lighting systems.
An example which illustrates the industry's environmental drive, 
is BSkyB in the UK, which is planning a new studio centre – 
Harlequin 1 – which it claims will be the first carbon neutral 
broadcasting complex in the world. This is merely the latest  
and most ambitious initiative in the TV sector.
Some studios have already made the switch to low energy use. 
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Report continued 
Coolest Running 
Heat Generated (British Thermal Unit)
Tungsten Tungsten Tungsten Fluorescent Fluorescent Fluorescent Litepanels Litepanels Litepanels
Requires Less Air Conditioning
 Cooling Watts (Air Conditioning)
 Consumption Watts
Lowest Power Consumption
(Watts)
500
1000
1500
1800
750
22
2000
200
400
600
203
85
2
47
800
550 234
100
300
200
500
400
550
225
50
600 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          39
CBS-12 in West Palm Beach was the first TV studio to install 
Litepanels lighting fixtures. 
Using their traditional tungsten lighting, the electrical power load 
was 52KW. Using Litepanels, this has fallen to 3KW. The energy 
used in air conditioning has given an additional 20KW in savings.
A further saving is in the life of the bulb, or in the case of LEDs,  
the diode. High-wattage tungsten lights are good for about 250 
hours. LEDs are expected to be good for at least 50,000 hours. 
So if the studio is lit for 10 hours per day, the LEDs will last well 
over 10 years.
Initially, there was scepticism about installing the LEDs. David 
Christopher, Executive News Director said:
“I did not think in a million years these lights would work. And  
so I was very very surprised. I could not believe how good the  
talent looked”.
Paul Russell, Director of Engineering was impressed by the  
energy savings:
“It hits you in two ways, because you do not have the power 
consumption associated with the lights themselves drawing all  
that power, and number two, you do not have the air conditioning 
costs associated with supporting the kind of heat developed by 
tungsten lights”.
In Croatia, Nova TV’s news studio was re-equipped during  
2010 to support HD quality transmissions. It chose Litepanels  
for its production, spot and flood lights in order to cut energy  
use and improve light quality.
Miljenko Logozar, Technical Director of Nova TV explained:
“Litepanels have definitely lived up to our expectations. No more 
excessive heating and huge savings in maintenance have created 
a better working environment for us and, just as importantly, 
reduced the power consumption from 17.8KW to only 900 W”. 
His colleague Mario Kralj, Head of Technical Engineering added:
“Since we started using Litepanels, our worries and troubles have 
just disappeared. Before, we needed to check our studio lights 
every day before transmission and then calibrate our cameras. 
Now, we just flick the switch and go”.
But Litepanels do not just revolutionise TV studio lighting.  
Their versatility is now recognised in a wide variety of settings:
• White House briefing room. Built some 40 years ago, the  
US Presidential briefing room was recently revamped and 
Litepanels installed to double the illumination and reduce  
power requirements and heat generated by 95%.
• Underwater filming. Sequences for the film “The Last Song” 
starring Miley Cyrus, were filmed using underwater Litepanels 
with its integrated battery pack. Not only was the light quality 
excellent, but no power cables were required, leaving the  
sharks and rays in the aquarium where the filming took place 
completely unharmed.
• Outdoor documentary filming. Keith O’Derek’s acclaimed two 
year documentary “Barack Obama: Road to the White House” 
was filmed using Litepanels, including the small MiniPlus on top 
of the camera. “Where being spontaneous and natural are key  
to telling the story, Litepanels are a must” says Keith.
Litepanels Nova TV 2
CBS-12 TV Studio in West Palm Beach 40          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance 
 
The Listing Rules require a company to include in its Annual 
Report and Accounts a statement of how it has applied the main 
and supporting principles set out in the 2008 Combined Code, 
“the Code”. The Listing Rules also require a company to include 
a statement as to whether or not it has complied throughout the 
accounting period with the Code provisions. A company that has 
not complied with the Code provisions, or complied with only 
some of the Code provisions or (in the case of provisions whose 
requirements are of a continuing nature) complied for only part 
of an accounting period, must specify the Code provisions with 
which it has not complied, and (where relevant) for what part of  
the period such non-compliance continued, and give reasons  
for such non-compliance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code applies to UK listed 
companies, including the Company, for financial years 
commencing on or after 29 June 2010. The Company will 
therefore report on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code in the 2011 Annual Report. However, where relevant, 
disclosures relating to the UK Corporate Governance Code  
are given to demonstrate the Company’s current level of 
compliance with it.
Statement of compliance
The Board considers that it has complied with the Code 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2010. The Company 
regularly reviews and revises its procedures, as necessary, to  
take account of the requirements of the Code.
The Board
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and 
delivery of strong, sustainable performance and the creation of 
long-term shareholder value. The Board meets regularly and is 
responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Company 
and the Group in a manner that will promote the success of the 
Company and is consistent with good corporate governance 
practices and for ensuring that, in carrying out its duties, the 
Company and the Group meets legal and regulatory requirements. 
The Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority for 
ensuring compliance with the Group’s UK regulatory obligations.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors, 
who may exercise all the power of the Company, subject to 
the Company’s articles of association, relevant law and any 
directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting. 
The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions to 
committees consisting of one or more members of their body and 
(if thought fit) one or more other persons co-opted so long as the 
majority of committee members are directors.
Unless authorised in advance by the Board of Directors, and with 
the respective director abstaining from any such authorisation, a 
director shall not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal 
in which he or she (or any person connected with the director) has 
a material interest otherwise than by virtue of his or her interests in 
securities of the Company. However, a director shall be entitled to 
vote in certain limited circumstances which are set out in full in the 
articles of association.
The Board has formally adopted a procedure for dealing with 
conflicts or potential conflicts of interest. The Board is satisfied  
that the procedure for dealing with conflicts is robust and 
operating effectively.
The directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company so as  
to secure that the aggregate amount of all monies borrowed by 
the Group and owing to persons outside the Group shall not at 
any time, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution  
of the Company, exceed a sum equal to twice the aggregate of:  
(i) the amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company; 
and (ii) the amount standing to the credit of the reserves of the 
Group (subject to certain adjustments).
The Company can authorise the directors to allot further securities 
by ordinary resolution. A resolution seeking to authorise the 
directors to allot securities is being put to the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting on 19 May 2011. Details of this resolution and 
the other resolutions being put to the 2011 Annual General 
Meeting are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting 
that accompanies this Annual Report. The directors may offer, 
allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of shares to such 
persons, at such times and for such consideration and upon such 
terms and conditions as the directors may determine, provided 
that no shares shall be issued at a discount.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company may purchase its own shares. Authority was given at the 
2010 Annual General Meeting for the Company to make market 
purchases of up to 2.1 million shares. That authority expires at the 
conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting. A renewal of this 
authority is being sought at the 2011 Annual General Meeting. In 
2008, the Company, under such an authority, acquired 150,000 
shares, to be held in Treasury, at an average price of £4.53 per 
share. In December 2010, the 150,000 shares were transferred 
out of Treasury for nil consideration into the Vitec Employee Benefit 
Trust (the Vitec EBT). The Vitec EBT holds shares in the Company 
to meet awards of shares to the employees under the various 
share plans the Company has in place. Following the transfer,  
the Company holds no shares in Treasury.
The Board had six scheduled meetings during the year ended  
31 December 2010 and one meeting at short notice. There is 
a formal schedule of matters and levels of authority which are 
delegated to the executive directors, with all other matters and 
powers being reserved to the Board or to its Committees. Full 
details of matters reserved to the Board may be viewed on the 
Company’s website. At several Board meetings, the directors 
are joined by other senior executives apart from the executive 
directors, principally members of the Operations Executive, to 
gain a greater and more detailed understanding of the Group’s 
operations. This practice will continue in the future. In addition, at 
least one Board meeting a year is held at an operational business, 
enabling the Board to view operations and meet management. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          41
During the year, all directors attended the six scheduled Board 
meetings. Apart from the scheduled Board meetings, there was 
one Board meeting held at short notice. Due to short notice, 
Will Wyatt and Simon Beresford-Wylie were unable to attend 
this meeting. Despite this, each of the directors unable to attend 
that meeting had been briefed on the proposal being put to that 
meeting and had given their feedback and support to the proposal 
to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, the Board 
consisted of a Chairman (Michael Harper), a Group Chief  
Executive (Stephen Bird), a Group Finance Director (Richard 
Cotton) and four independent non-executive directors (Simon 
Beresford-Wylie, Nigel Moore, Maria Richter and Will Wyatt).  
Will Wyatt is also the Senior Independent Director. With effect  
from 4 February 2011, Richard Cotton ceased to be a director 
of the Company. The Company has appointed Nick Humby as 
Interim Chief Financial Officer to oversee the finance function 
pending the appointment of a permanent replacement.  
The search for this replacement by the Nominations  
Committee has commenced.
The non-executive directors bring independent character and 
judgement to bear on strategic matters, the performance of the 
Group, the adequacy of resources and standards of conduct. 
The Board considers that Simon Beresford-Wylie, Maria Richter, 
Nigel Moore and Will Wyatt are independent in accordance with 
the recommendations of the Combined Code. The roles of the 
Chairman (who is non-executive) and of the Group Chief Executive 
are separate and they each have a clear written division of 
responsibilities approved by the Board. Full details of this  
may be viewed on the Company’s website.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day 
operational performance of the business. The Operations 
Executive supports the Group Chief Executive in this duty  
and comprises the following senior executives of the Group:
• Joop Janssen – Chief Executive, Videocom Division
• Francesco Bernardi – Imaging and Staging Division
• Jerry Gepner – Services Division
• Martin Green – Head of Business Development
• Jon Bolton – Group Company Secretary
• Cathy Walkington – Group Head of HR
• Steve Shpock – Chief Executive, IMT
Directors, having notified the Chairman, are able to take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in 
furtherance of their duties. All new directors are given an extensive 
induction to the Group, including meeting with senior executives 
and advisors and visiting the Group’s principal operations. 
Non-executive directors are also encouraged to visit the  
Group’s operations on a continuing basis to further develop their 
understanding of the Group’s business. All directors have access  
to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.  
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Ongoing training for new directors and existing directors is 
available at the request of the director. Each director receives 
details of relevant training and development courses from both  
the Group Company Secretary and from external bodies such  
as KPMG and Towers Watson. The requirement for training is 
regularly discussed at meetings of the Board and of its Committees 
with tailored training sessions. The Group Company Secretary 
maintains a register of training undertaken by directors to facilitate 
this discussion.
The papers supplied for consideration by the Board are provided 
on the basis that it gives all Board members adequate time to read 
and, where appropriate, ask questions prior to the meeting about 
the information supplied. The information includes sufficiently 
detailed budgets, strategy papers, reviews of the Group’s 
financial position and operating performance and annual and 
half-yearly reports. Each Board member receives on a monthly 
basis management reports including a Group Chief Executive’s 
Report, Group Finance Report and Group Company Secretary’s 
Report plus a Health and Safety Report covering the ongoing 
performance of the business. Further information is supplied  
from time to time as and when requested by the Board.
All meetings of the Board and its committees (Audit, Remuneration 
and Nominations) are minuted. Minutes are circulated to all 
directors attending meetings and tabled for approval at the 
subsequent meeting.
The Board has an Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and 
a Remuneration Committee. Each Committee has formal terms of 
reference which may be viewed on the Company’s website. The 
terms of reference and the effectiveness of the Board and of each 
Committee are reviewed at least annually and changes made where 
necessary. Any issues arising from the reviews of effectiveness are 
summarised and tabled at subsequent Board meetings at which 
they are discussed and action plans agreed. 42          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Performance evaluations of each of the directors took place 
during 2010 in accordance with the provision contained in the 
Combined Code. In the case of the executive directors, this 
evaluation is undertaken by the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors regularly throughout the year against achievement of 
specific objectives. Evaluation of the Chairman was carried out 
by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views 
of the other Board members. Evaluation of each of the other 
non-executive directors was carried out by the Chairman. Each 
evaluation was carried out by using written questionnaires and 
the results were discussed individually with each of the relevant 
non-executive directors. Evaluations of the effectiveness of the 
Board and each of the Committees were also carried out by the 
full Board and the relevant Committee members respectively. 
The 2010 evaluation process concluded that the Board, its 
Committees and individual members were performing to a good 
standard with robust Board processes, governance and controls. 
Key areas identified for attention in 2011 concerned succession 
planning at Board and executive level and development of senior 
talent within the business. The Board has decided that in 2011 it  
will conduct an externally facilitated evaluation in accordance with 
the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
The key output from this will be reported in the 2011 Annual Report.
Audit Committee
The Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore, who has been the 
chairman of the committee since March 2004. He is currently 
Chairman of TEG Group plc, a director of Hochschild Mining 
plc, JKX Oil & Gas plc, Ascent Resources plc, Intelligent Comms 
Limited and Production Services Network Limited. Formerly a 
London based partner of Ernst & Young where he was client 
service partner for London International plc and the UK operations 
of Coca Cola. The other members of the Committee are Simon 
Beresford-Wylie, Maria Richter and Will Wyatt. Each member of 
the Committee is independent. The Committee considers that its 
members have a wide skill set covering financial, commercial and 
operational matters. However, Nigel Moore has the most recent 
and relevant financial experience. During 2010, the Committee had 
three scheduled meetings and one meeting at short notice. All the 
members of the Committee attended all the Committee meetings, 
except for Simon Beresford-Wylie who was unable to attend the 
February 2010 meeting due to a conflicting commitment that 
arose at short notice. Despite this absence, Simon Beresford-
Wylie provided feedback to the Committee Chairman on the 
meeting’s business ahead of the meeting. The Company’s external 
auditors, KPMG, are invited to attend meetings of the Committee 
on a regular basis and during 2010 they attended all meetings;  
in each case for part of the meeting. The Group Chief Executive, 
the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Risk Assurance Manager 
attend each meeting by invitation. Other members of the senior 
management team attend as required. At two of the meetings  
the executive directors were not present for part of the meeting  
so that members of the Committee could meet with the external 
auditors in private. The practice of the Committee meeting in 
private with the external auditors will continue in the future.
During 2010, the Audit Committee considered, among other 
matters, the financial results and accounting disclosures  
in connection with the full-year results for the year ended  
31 December 2009 and the half-year results for the period 
ended 30 June 2010. The Committee further monitored ongoing 
performance for internal controls for the Group. The Committee 
received regular reports from the external auditor on accounting 
issues and considered the scope and associated fee for the audit 
in connection with the year-end audit for 31 December 2010.
Duties of the Audit Committee:
Financial Reporting
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary 
results announcements, interim management statements and any 
other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, 
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements 
which they contain.
The annual financial statements of the pension funds are reviewed 
by the Board as a whole.
Internal Controls and Risk Management Systems
Keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls and internal control and 
risk management systems; and reviewing the statements to be 
included in the annual report concerning internal controls and  
risk management.
Whistleblowing and Fraud
Reviewing the adequacy and security of the Company’s 
arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, 
in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or 
other matters. The Committee ensures that these arrangements 
allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters 
and appropriate follow-up action.
Reviewing the Company’s systems and controls for the prevention 
of bribery and receiving reports on non-compliance.
Internal Audit
Overseeing the work of the internal audit function, including the 
planning of its internal audits, receiving regular reports on its work 
and reviewing its effectiveness.
External Audit
Considering and making recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of 
the Company’s external auditors. The Committee oversees the 
selection process for new auditors and, if the auditors resign,  
the Committee is required to investigate the issues leading to  
this and decide whether any action is required.
Corporate Governance continued  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          43
Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including, 
but not limited to:
• approving its remuneration, whether fees for audit or non-audit 
services and checking that the level of fees is appropriate to 
enable an adequate audit to be conducted; 
• approving its terms of engagement, including any engagement 
letter issued at the start of each audit and the scope of the audit; 
• assessing annually its independence and objectivity, taking 
into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements 
and the relationship with the auditors as a whole, including the 
provision of any non-audit services; 
• satisfying itself that there are no relationships (such as family, 
employment, investment, financial or business) between the 
auditors and the Company (other than in the ordinary course of 
business); 
• agreeing with the Board a policy on the employment of former 
employees of the Company’s auditors, then monitoring the 
implementation of this policy; 
• monitoring the auditors’ compliance with relevant ethical and 
professional guidance on the rotation of audit partners, the level 
of fees paid by the Company compared to the overall fee income 
of the firm, office and partner and other related requirements; 
• assessing annually the external auditors’ qualifications, expertise 
and resources and the effectiveness of the audit process, which 
shall include a report from the external auditors on their own 
internal quality procedures; 
• ensuring co-ordination with the activities of the Company’s 
internal audit arrangements; 
• meeting regularly with the external auditors, including at the 
planning stage before the audit and after the audit at the 
reporting stage. The Committee meets the external auditors  
at least once a year, without executive directors being present, 
to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit;
• reviewing and approving the annual audit plan and ensuring  
that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement;
• reviewing the findings of the audit with the external auditors.  
This includes but is not limited to the following: 
 - a discussion of any major issues that arose during the audit; 
 - accounting and audit judgements; and 
 - levels of errors identified during the audit. 
• reviewing the effectiveness of the audit and reviewing any 
representation letter requested by the external auditors before  
it is signed by management; 
• reviewing the management letter and management’s response 
to the auditors’ findings and recommendations; and
• reviewing and approving the policy on the supply of non-audit 
services by the external auditors, taking into account any 
relevant ethical guidance on the matter.
A policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services 
has been in place for a number of years. The use of the external 
auditors is subject generally to competitiveness and demonstrable 
competence in the relevant areas. The policy is divided into  
three parts:
• Work where use of the external auditors is deemed appropriate. 
This type of work includes corporate tax advice and planning, 
tax compliance, accounting advice in relation to acquisitions, 
dividend planning, divestments, corporate governance/risk 
management advice and defined audit related work and 
regulatory reporting. 
• Work requiring Audit Committee clearance or refinement of 
the Vitec Group policy. The type of work includes reporting 
accountant services, compliance services (including fraud and 
money laundering), transaction work (mergers and acquisitions), 
valuation and actuarial services, fairness opinions and contribution 
in kind reports, personal tax services, management consultancy, 
HR or recruitment services, remuneration consultancy and legal 
or other professional services unrelated to an audit. 
• Work from which the external auditors are excluded. This 
includes internal accounting or other internal financial services, 
design development or implementation of financial information 
or internal controls systems, internal audit services or their 
outsourcing, forensic accounting services, executive or 
management roles and functions, IT consultancy, litigation 
support services and other financial services such as broker, 
financial adviser or investment banking services.
Reporting Responsibilities
• The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on its 
proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its duties 
and responsibilities. 
• The Committee makes whatever recommendations to the Board 
it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or 
improvement is needed. 
Other Responsibilities
The Committee has access to sufficient resources in order to carry 
out its duties, including access to the Group Company Secretary 
for assistance as required.
The Committee members are provided with training as and when 
required, both in the form of an induction programme for new 
members and on an ongoing basis for all members. This includes 
training provided by the Company’s auditors particularly on 
changes in accounting policies and standards.
The Committee may oversee any investigation of activities which 
are within its terms of reference and, for internal purposes, act as 
a court of the last resort. 44          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
At least once a year, the Committee reviews its own performance, 
constitution and terms of reference to ensure it is operating at 
maximum effectiveness and recommending any changes  
it considers necessary to the Board for approval.
Authority
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires 
from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties 
and to obtain, at the Company’s expense, outside legal or other 
professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference. 
It is also authorised to call any employee to be questioned at a 
meeting of the Committee as and when required. The Committee 
also has the right to publish in the Company’s Annual Report 
details of any issues that cannot be resolved between the 
Committee and the Board.
Remuneration Committee
With effect from 3 June 2010, WIll Wyatt stood down as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee after five years in that post and 
Simon Beresford-Wylie was appointed in his place. As at the date 
of this Report, Will Wyatt continues to serve as a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company, as the Senior Independent Director and 
also as a member of the Remuneration Committee. The other 
members of the Committee are Nigel Moore and Maria Richter. 
Each member of the Committee is independent. During 2010, the 
Committee had three scheduled meetings and one meeting called 
at short notice. All members attended all the Committee meetings 
in 2010, except for Simon Beresford-Wylie who was unable to 
attend the February meeting due to a conflicting commitment that 
arose at short notice. Despite this absence, Simon Beresford-
Wylie provided feedback to the Committee Chairman on the 
meeting’s business ahead of the meeting.
During 2010, the Remuneration Committee considered, among 
other matters, the 2009 annual bonus plan outcome, the 2010 
annual bonus plan structure including executive directors’ personal 
objectives, long-term incentive awards, the 2009 Remuneration 
Committee report, the structure of the annual bonus plan and 
long-term incentives going forward, and the introduction of a 
clawback policy.
The Remuneration Report in respect of the year ended 31 
December 2010 is set out on pages 28 to 35.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee:
• determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or 
broad policy for the remuneration of the Company’s Chairman, 
the executive directors, the Group Company Secretary and such 
other members of the Operations Executive as it is designated 
to consider. No director or manager may be involved in any 
decisions as to their own remuneration. The remuneration of 
non-executive directors is a matter for the Chairman and the 
executive directors; 
• in determining such policy, taking into account all factors which 
it deems necessary, including having regard to the remuneration 
trends across the Company. The objective of such policy is 
to ensure that members of the executive management of the 
Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage 
enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible 
manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the 
success of the Company; 
• reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the 
remuneration policy; 
• approving the design of, and determining targets for, any 
performance related pay schemes operated by the Company 
and approving the total annual payments made under such 
schemes, ensuring that any performance related pay schemes 
are structured to drive executive management to deliver 
sustainable long-term growth in shareholder value; 
• reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and shareholders. For any such plans, determining 
each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall 
amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive 
directors and other senior executives and the performance 
targets to be used, ensuring that awards are merited, particularly 
given the context of ongoing business performance, that they 
are not disproportionate and potentially rewarding failure; 
• determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements 
for each executive director and other senior executives; 
• ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any 
payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company,  
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss  
is fully recognised; 
• within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with 
the Chairman and/or Group Chief Executive as appropriate, 
determining the total individual remuneration package of the 
Chairman, each executive director and other senior executives, 
including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or 
other share awards; 
• in determining such packages and arrangements, give due 
regard to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and 
recommendations in the Code, the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and  
associated guidance; 
• reviewing and noting annually the remuneration trends across 
the Company or Group; 
• overseeing any major changes in employee benefits structures 
throughout the Company or Group; 
• agreeing the policy for authorising claims for expenses from  
the Group Chief Executive and Chairman and other directors  
of the Company;
• ensuring that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, 
including pensions, as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Reporting Regulations 2002, the Code and UK Corporate 
Governance Code, are fulfilled; and 
Corporate Governance continued  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          45
• being exclusively responsible for establishing the selection 
criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference 
for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee, 
and to obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration 
in other companies. The Committee shall have full authority to 
commission any reports or surveys that it deems necessary to 
help it fulfil its obligations. 
Reporting Responsibilities
• The Committee Chairman reports formally to the Board on its 
proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its duties 
and responsibilities. 
• The Committee makes whatever recommendations to the Board 
it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or 
improvement is needed. 
• Produce an annual report of the Company’s remuneration 
policies and practices, which will form part of the Company’s 
Annual Report and ensure that it is put to shareholders for 
approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Other Responsibilities
• The Committee, at least once a year, reviews its own 
performance, constitution and terms of reference to ensure it 
is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommends any 
changes it considers necessary to the Board for approval. 
Authority
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any  
information it requires from any employee of the Company in  
order to perform its duties. The Committee is also authorised  
by the Board, in connection with the Committee’s duties, to 
obtain, at the Company’s expense, any outside legal or other 
professional advice.
Nominations Committee
The Committee is chaired by Michael Harper. The other members 
of the Committee are Simon Beresford-Wylie, Nigel Moore, Maria 
Richter, Will Wyatt and Stephen Bird. The independent non-
executive directors must form a majority on the Committee.
There were three Committee meetings held during 2010 and all 
members of the Committee attended each meeting.
During the year, the Committee considered Board and senior 
executive succession planning. The Nominations Committee 
uses the services of an external search consultancy to facilitate 
the search for new directors, notably in connection with the 
recruitment of a new Finance Director.
Duties of the Nominations Committee:
• reviewing the structure, size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) required of the Board 
in the future compared with its current position and making 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes; 
• giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and 
other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise 
needed on the Board in the future; 
• being responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval 
of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when 
they arise;
• before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluating the 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the 
Board, and, in the light of this evaluation, preparing a description 
of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee: 
 -  uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to 
facilitate the search; 
 - considers candidates from a wide range of backgrounds; and 
 -  considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria 
and with regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, 
including gender, taking care that appointees have enough 
time available to devote to the position. 
• keeping under review the leadership needs of the Company, both 
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continuing 
ability of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace; 
• keeping up-to-date and fully informed about strategic issues and 
commercial changes affecting the Company and the market in 
which it operates; 
• reviewing annually the time required from non-executive 
directors; and 
• ensuring that on appointment to the Board, non-executive 
directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out 
clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, 
Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings. 
Detailed terms of reference for the Nominations Committee are 
available on the Company’s website.
Reporting Responsibilities
• The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on its 
proceedings after each meeting on all matters within  
its duties and responsibilities. 
• The Committee makes whatever recommendations to the  
Board it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where 
action or improvement is needed.
Other Responsibilities
The Committee, at least once a year, reviews its own performance, 
constitution and terms of reference to ensure it is operating 
at maximum effectiveness and recommends any changes it 
considers necessary to the Board for approval.
Authority
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information it 
requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its 
duties. The Committee is also authorised by the Board, in connection 
with the Committee’s duties, to obtain, at the Company’s expense, 
any outside legal or other professional advice.  46          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Appointments and re-appointments to the Board:
The Board has power at any time and from time to time to appoint 
any person to be a director, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an 
addition to the existing Board. Any director so appointed shall hold 
office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then  
put him or herself forward to be re-appointed by the members.
The Chairman and the other non-executive directors are appointed 
for an initial period of three years which, with the approval of 
the Nominations Committee and the Board, would normally be 
extended for a further three years. Appointments of non-executive 
directors may be extended beyond six years, with the approval of 
the Nominations Committee, the Board and the individual director 
concerned, if it is in the interests of the Group to do so. Under  
the Company’s Articles of Association, each director is required  
to stand for annual re-election. Full details are included within  
the 2011 Annual General Meeting notice.
Relations with shareholders
The Board continues to recognise the importance of maintaining 
regular contact with its shareholders to ensure that its businesses, 
strategy and remuneration policies are understood and that 
any concerns are addressed in a constructive way. The Board 
communicates with its shareholders through a combination of 
public announcements through the Stock Exchange, analyst 
briefings, roadshows and press interviews at the time of the 
announcements of the half-year and full-year results and, when 
appropriate, at other times in the year. The executive directors,  
the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee also meet with investors 
from time to time. The Annual General Meeting offers a further 
opportunity for the directors to meet with shareholders and  
for the shareholders to ask questions about the business.
The Company sends to its shareholders each year an Annual 
Report and copies of this and of public announcements and 
financial results are published on the Company’s website,  
www.vitecgroup.com. 
At meetings of shareholders, the level of proxy votes received, 
together with the numbers of votes in favour, against and withheld, 
is announced after each resolution has been dealt with on a 
show of hands. Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue 
upon which shareholders are asked to vote. The Group’s website 
contains details of the 2011 Annual General Meeting resolutions 
and the voting thereon.
The Company has complied with the requirement set out in  
the Code in respect of shareholders meetings to send the  
notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers at least  
20 working days before the meeting. It will continue to comply  
with the requirement.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the 
Company’s assets. However, any system can only provide 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. As 
part of its responsibility, the Board regularly, and at least annually, 
reviews the effectiveness of its internal controls. The Group has 
systems and procedures for internal controls that are designed 
to provide reasonable control over the activities of the Group and 
to enable the Board to fulfil its legal responsibility for the keeping 
of proper accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and detecting fraud and other irregularities. However, it is 
recognised that it is in the nature of any business that business 
and commercial risks must be taken and that for a business to 
succeed, enterprise, initiative and the motivation of employees  
are key elements that must not be unduly stifled. It is not 
the intention of the Group to avoid all commercial risks and 
commercial judgements will have to be made in the course  
of the management of the business.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing the 
system of internal controls. The application and process followed 
by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls during the year are as follows:
• Operating company management is charged with the ongoing 
responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the businesses 
and for putting in place procedures to monitor and  
manage risks. 
• This system has been in place for the year under review and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
• The responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer at each operating unit to manage risks  
within their businesses are periodically reinforced by  
Group executive management. 
• Major commercial, technological and financial risks to the Group 
are formally assessed during the annual long-term business 
planning process around mid-year. These plans and the 
attendant risks to the Group are reviewed and considered  
by the Board. 
• Large capital projects, product development projects and 
acquisitions and disposals require Board approval. 
• The process by which the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of internal controls has been agreed by the Board and 
documented. This involves regular reviews by the Board of the 
major business risks of the Group, together with the controls 
in place to manage those risks as reported to the Board by 
the Chief Executives of each Division. In addition, each year 
businesses formally review, in detail, all of their business risks 
and their internal controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls. They then prepare statements that 
describe the extent of their compliance with control objectives. 
These statements are approved by the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer of each operating unit and submitted 
to Group executive management for review. Any significant 
matters arising from this review are formally reported to the 
Board by the Group Finance Director. The risk and control 
identification and certification process is monitored and 
periodically reviewed by Group financial management. 
Corporate Governance continued  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          47
• A centralised database of risks facing the Group, as well as 
each individual business, and an evaluation of the impact and 
likelihood of those risks is maintained and updated regularly.
• The Board has established a control framework within which the 
Group operates. This contains the following key elements: 
-  organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, 
delegation of authority and reporting requirements; 
-  defined expenditure authorisation levels; 
-  on-site and telephone conferencing operations reviews covering 
all aspects of each business are conducted by Group executive 
management on a regular basis throughout the year; 
-  comprehensive system of financial reporting. The annual budget 
and long-term plan of each operating company are reviewed in 
detail and approved by the Group Chief Executive Officer and 
Operations Executive. The Board approves the overall Group’s 
budget and plans. Monthly actual results are reported against 
prior year and monthly budgets. Forecasts are revised where 
necessary but formally at least once every quarter. Any significant 
changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Group 
Chief Executive Officer and Operations Executive and remedial 
action is taken where appropriate. Group tax and treasury is co-
ordinated centrally. There is regular cash and treasury reporting 
to Group financial management and periodic reporting to the 
Board on the Group’s tax and treasury position. 
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the Code 
during the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts and that it accords with Turnbull guidance.
The Group implemented an internal audit function in August  
2009, replacing the third party audit consultants. Ten audits took 
place in 2010, the details of which have been reported to the  
Audit Committee.
Going concern
The directors have made appropriate enquiries and consider  
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the accounts.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and  
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company financial statements, the directors  
are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement  
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information (as defined in Section 418(2) 
of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information. 48          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the members of The Vitec Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of The Vitec Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2010. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group 
financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation  
of the parent company financial statements is applicable law  
and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might  
state to the company’s members those matters we are required  
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or  
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and  
the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an 
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP . 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 
December and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted  
Accounting Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by  
law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 47, in relation to  
going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 
47 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Lynton Richmond (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc  
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
London
2 March 2011 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          49
Consolidated Income Statement
 For the year ended 31 December 2010
      2010   2009 
     Before   Before   
     significant Significant  significant Significant  
     items items
(1)
 Total items items
(1)
 Total 
    Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    3  309.6  -  309.6  315.1  -  315.1 
Cost of sales    5  (183.1)  (1.3)  (184.4)  (191.2) -  (191.2)
Gross profit      126.5   (1.3)  125.2   123.9  -  123.9 
Other operating income    5  -   5.2   5.2   -   -   - 
Operating expenses    4/5  (98.8)  (9.0)  (107.8)  (99.4)  (21.6) (121.0)
Operating profit/(loss)    3/6  27.7   (5.1)  22.6   24.5   (21.6)  2.9 
Finance income      3.1   0.1   3.2   2.4   0.3   2.7 
Finance costs      (4.1)  -   (4.1)  (4.2)  0.4  (3.8)
Net finance expense    5/9  (1.0)  0.1   (0.9)  (1.8)  0.7  (1.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax      26.7   (5.0)  21.7  22.7   (20.9)  1.8 
Taxation    10  (8.8)  5.4   (3.4) (7.2)  8.6   1.4 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent    17.9   0.4   18.3   15.5   (12.3)  3.2 
Earnings per share    11      
  Basic earnings per share       42.8p   7.5p
  Diluted earnings per share       41.9p   7.4p
Average exchange rates        
  Euro       1.17   1.12
  US$       1.55   1.56
(1) 
See Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts. 50          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
 For the year ended 31 December 2010
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Profit for the year          18.3   3.2 
Other comprehensive income  
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension obligations, net of tax         2.5  (6.1)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries        1.5  (20.8)
Net (loss)/gain on designated effective net investment hedges        (1.1)  4.0 
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges, net of tax       (0.7)  3.4 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges        -  0.9 
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax         2.2  (18.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent       20.5  (15.4) The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          51
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2010
         2010 2009 
        Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets        12  51.8   58.2 
Property, plant and equipment        13  53.4   54.6 
Trade and other receivables        17  0.4   0.3 
Deferred tax assets        15  22.6   18.1 
            128.2   131.2 
Current assets   
Inventories        16  55.4   51.9 
Trade and other receivables        17  45.4   45.5 
Derivative financial instruments        18  0.9   1.7 
Current tax assets        19  0.3   - 
Cash and cash equivalents        20  7.7   12.1 
            109.7   111.2 
Total assets          237.9   242.4 
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Bank overdrafts        20  1.0   - 
Trade and other payables        21  51.2   46.6 
Derivative financial instruments        18  1.0   0.3 
Current tax liabilities        19  9.4   6.6 
Provisions        22  4.6   8.6 
            67.2   62.1 
Non-current liabilities   
Bank loans         18/20  34.8   52.7 
Post-employment obligations         26  7.0   11.0 
Provisions        22  2.2   4.4 
Deferred tax liabilities        15  2.4   1.0 
            46.4   69.1 
Total liabilities          113.6   131.2 
Net assets          124.3   111.2 
Equity   
Share capital          8.6   8.6 
Share premium          9.6   9.0 
Translation reserve          5.9   5.5 
Capital redemption reserve          1.6   1.6 
Cash flow hedging reserve          (0.1)  0.6 
Retained earnings          98.7   85.9 
Total equity        23  124.3   111.2 
Approved by the Board on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf.    
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive 52          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
 As at 31 December 2010
       Capital Cash flow   
    Share Share Translation redemption hedging Retained Total 
    capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2009     8.5   7.5   22.3   1.6   (3.7)  97.2   133.4 
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year     -   -   -   -   -   3.2   3.2 
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial loss on pension obligations, net of tax    -   -   -   -   -   (6.1) (6.1)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries   -   -   (20.8)  -   -   -  (20.8)
Net gain on designated effective net investment hedges    -   -   4.0   -   -   -   4.0 
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges,  
net of tax     -   -   -   -   3.4   -   3.4 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges   -   -   -   -   0.9   -   0.9 
Total other comprehensive income net of tax    -   -   (16.8)  -   4.3   (6.1) (18.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year     -   -   (16.8)  -   4.3   (2.9) (15.4)
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity        
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid     -   -   -   -   -   (7.8) (7.8)
Own shares (Treasury) purchased     -   0.7   -   -   -   (0.7)  - 
Own shares (Employee benefit trust) purchased    -   -   -   -   -   (0.6) (0.6)
Equity-settled transactions     -   -   -   -   -   0.7   0.7 
New shares issued     0.1   0.8   -   -   -  -  0.9 
Total transactions with owners     0.1   1.5   -   -   -   (8.4) (6.8)
Balance at 31 December 2009     8.6   9.0   5.5   1.6   0.6   85.9   111.2 
        
Balance at 1 January 2010     8.6   9.0   5.5   1.6   0.6   85.9   111.2 
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year     -   -   -   -   -   18.3   18.3 
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial gain on pension obligations, net of tax    -   -   -   -   -   2.5   2.5 
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries   -   -   1.5   -   -   -   1.5 
Net loss on designated effective net investment hedges    -   -   (1.1)  -   -   -  (1.1)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges,  
net of tax     -   -   -   -   (0.7)  -  (0.7)
Total other comprehensive income net of tax    -   -   0.4   -   (0.7)  2.5   2.2 
Total comprehensive income for the year     -   -   0.4   -   (0.7)  20.8   20.5 
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity        
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid     -   -   -   -   -   (7.9) (7.9)
Own shares (Employee benefit trust) purchased    -   -   -   -   -   (1.1) (1.1)
Equity-settled transactions     -   -   -   -   -   1.0   1.0 
New shares issued     -   0.6   -   -   -   -   0.6 
Total transactions with owners     -   0.6   -   -   -   (8.0) (7.4)
Balance at 31 December 2010     8.6   9.6   5.9   1.6   (0.1)  98.7   124.3  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          53
Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows
 For the year ended 31 December 2010
         2010 2009 
        Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit for the year          18.3   3.2 
Adjustments for:    
  Taxation          3.4  (1.4)
  (Profit)/loss on disposal of business        24  (2.2)  0.7 
  Depreciation          13.6   14.3 
  Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment         0.1   2.5 
  Impairment losses on intangible assets          0.1   - 
  Amortisation of acquired intangible assets         7.6   8.5 
  Amortisation of capitalised software and development costs        1.4   1.3 
  Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment        (1.3) (1.0)
  Net loss on disposal of capitalised software         0.2   - 
  Curtailment gain on UK Defined benefit pension scheme        (3.0)  - 
  Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments        0.3  (0.6)
  Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes         1.0   1.4 
  Financial income          (3.2) (2.7)
  Financial expense          4.1   3.8 
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions        40.4   30.0 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories          (6.9)  16.6 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables          (2.6)  10.3 
Increase/(decrease) in payables          7.7  (19.6)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions           (4.0)  5.5 
Cash generated from operating activities          34.6   42.8 
Interest paid          (1.2) (2.1)
Tax paid          (0.9) (4.3)
Net cash from operating activities          32.5   36.4 
Cash flows from investing activities     
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment         2.0   1.6 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment          (13.8) (13.6)
Capitalisation of intangible assets          (2.7) (1.7)
Contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries         (2.5) (3.0)
Disposal of business        24  7.1   0.7 
Net cash used in investing activities          (9.9) (16.0)
Cash flows from financing activities     
Proceeds from the issue of shares          0.6   0.5 
Purchase of own shares by Employee Benefit Trust         (1.1) (0.6)
Repayment of bank loans and other borrowings         (19.0) (11.2)
Dividends paid          (7.9) (7.8)
Net cash used in financing activities          (27.4) (19.1)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents        20  (4.8)  1.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January          12.1   14.9 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held          (0.6) (4.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December         6.7   12.1  54          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts
The Vitec Group Accounting Policies under IFRS
1a. Reporting Entity
The Vitec Group plc (the Company) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2010 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred  
to as the Group). 
1b. Basis of Preparation
The financial statements are presented in Sterling with the 
functional currency of the legal entities of the Group generally 
being that of the local country. The financial statements are 
prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following 
assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value:
• Derivative financial instruments.
• The Group’s defined benefit asset is recognised as the net total 
of the plan assets, plus unrecognised past service cost and 
unrecognised actuarial losses, less unrecognised actuarial gains 
and the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
EU (“IFRS”) requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. 
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical 
experience and various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the 
basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects 
only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Those judgements made by management in the application 
of IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements 
and the estimates that are considered by the directors to have 
a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are 
discussed in Note 28.
1c. Accounting Judgements - Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are  
set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 1 to 27. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 
12 to 15. In addition, Note 18 to the financial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; its exposure to  
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources. As a consequence, 
the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the current uncertain  
economic outlook. 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report  
and Accounts. 
1d. Statement of Compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved 
by the directors in accordance with IFRS. The Company has 
elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP .
2. Accounting Policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied 
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated  
financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists 
when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired 
during the year are included in the accounts up to, or from,  
the date that control passes.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses  
or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions,  
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
purchase method. In respect of business acquisitions that have 
occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the excess of 
the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  
of the acquiree. When the excess is negative (negative goodwill),  
it is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included 
on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount 
previously recorded under UK GAAP .
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the 
purposes of impairment testing. Goodwill is no longer amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          55
Revenue
Goods and services sold - Revenue from the sale of goods and 
services is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable, net of value added tax, returns and allowances, 
trade discounts and volume rebates. It is recognised when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably. This is 
normally when title passes to the customer.
No revenue from goods and services sold is recognised if there are 
significant uncertainties regarding the recovery of the consideration 
due, associated costs or the possible return of goods and 
continuing management involvement with the goods.
Rental of assets - Revenue from rental of assets is recognised  
over the duration of the rental contract, on a straight line basis,  
at the gross amount billed to the customer. 
Long term contracts - Contract revenue and expenses are 
recognised in the Income Statement in proportion to the stage 
of completion of the contract, to the extent that the contract 
outcome can be estimated reliably. The stage of completion is 
assessed by reference to surveys of work performed. When the 
outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably then 
contract revenue is only recognised to the value of contract costs 
incurred to date that are likely to be recoverable. An expected loss 
on a contract is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. 
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in receivables and 
represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies with overseas customers and 
suppliers are converted at the date at which transactions occur. 
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the period-end 
rates and the gains or losses on translation are included in the 
Income Statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies that are stated at fair value are translated using 
exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency gains and losses on inter-company loans are 
recorded directly in reserves if they form part of a net investment 
and repayment is neither planned nor likely to occur in the 
foreseeable future.
Foreign trading profits and cash flows are translated at a weighted 
average rate for the period. The assets and liabilities of overseas 
companies, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on consolidation, are translated using foreign exchange rates at 
the balance sheet date. 
Differences on translation of net investments in overseas 
companies, and of related hedges, are taken directly to the 
translation reserve. They are released to the Income Statement  
on disposal.
Pension costs
The costs of providing pensions for employees under defined 
contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension 
plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return 
for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any 
plan assets is deducted. The discount rate for UK schemes has 
been derived based on redemption yields on appropriate British 
Government bonds, plus a margin representing the yield premium 
on long-dated AA corporate bonds over British Government 
bonds. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using 
the projected unit credit method. The Group recognises the 
ongoing service cost in the Income Statement as part of operating 
profit. The Group recognises the unwinding of the discount (above) 
and the return on plan assets in the Income Statement as part of 
net financial expense. All actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. The Group’s net obligations in 
respect of overseas defined benefit pensions plans are estimated 
by qualified actuaries using appropriate methodologies.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income 
Statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional 
on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of 
time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Property, plant and equipment
Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the cost 
or valuation of the relevant assets less their estimated residual 
values by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives. 
Residual values and expected useful lives are reassessed annually. 
No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other property, plant 
and equipment are depreciated at the rates indicated below: 
Freehold and long leasehold buildings  2% – 5% on cost or valuation
Leasehold improvements  over the remaining period of the lease
Plant and machinery   12
1
/2% – 25% on cost 
Motor vehicles   25% – 33
1
/3% on cost 
Equipment, fixtures and fittings   10% – 33
1
/3% on cost 
Rental equipment   20% – 33
1
/3% on cost 
 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. In accordance 
with IFRS1, certain land and buildings that had been revalued to 
fair value prior to 1 January 2004 are measured on the basis of 
deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of  
that revaluation.  56          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued
Research and development 
The Group spends money on research projects and on projects 
to apply research findings to gain new scientific or technical 
knowledge and understanding. This expenditure is recognised  
in the Income Statement as incurred. 
Once detailed criteria have been met that confirm that the product 
or process is both technically and commercially feasible and the 
Group has sufficient resources to complete the project, any further 
expenditure incurred on the project is capitalised. The capitalised 
expenditure includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an 
appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised expenditure is amortised over the life of the project  
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.
Other intangible assets
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis 
of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific 
software. These costs are amortised using the straight line  
method over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs 
that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and 
unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will 
probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond  
one year, are capitalised and recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets  
are amortised using the straight line method.
Intangible assets arising on acquisition are amortised at the  
rates indicated below: 
Backlog   100% in first year
Brand   6.7% – 33% on cost 
Customer relationships   6.7% – 33% on cost 
Technology   6.7% – 20% on cost 
Software licences   20.0% – 33% on cost
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less the estimated costs of completion 
and selling expenses. Cost is based on average cost or the 
first in first out method as appropriate, and includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and production overheads (based on 
normal operating capacity) incurred in bringing stocks and work 
in progress to their present location and condition. Provisions for 
inventories are recognised when the book value exceeds its net 
realisable value.
Derivatives and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (derivatives) 
to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risks arising from 
operational activities. The Group does not hold or issue derivatives 
for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequent 
to initial recognition are measured at fair value. The fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the 
balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward 
price. The fair value of “simple” option contracts is their quoted 
market price at the balance sheet date. 
Derivatives are de-recognised when they mature or are sold.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement unless the derivatives qualify 
for hedge accounting.
Cash flow hedges - Where a derivative is designated as a hedge of 
the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction 
(“a hedging instrument”), the effective part of any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. This gain or loss 
is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement 
in the same period during which the hedged forecast transaction 
affects profit or loss. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
If a hedging instrument expires or is sold but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities - Where a derivative is 
used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of 
a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting 
is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is 
recognised in the Income Statement.
Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation - The portion of 
the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment 
in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge  
is recognised directly in equity. The ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement. The effective portion will  
be recycled into the Income Statement on the sale of the  
foreign operation.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value 
plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to 
initial recognition these transaction costs are recognised in the 
Income Statement over the term of the related borrowings. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          57
Income tax 
The tax expense in the Income Statement represents the sum  
of tax currently payable and deferred tax. Current tax is the 
expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year,  
using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date,  
and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred 
tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using 
tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary differences,  
and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax  
losses can be utilised except: 
• Where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the  
accounting profit or taxable profit or loss; and
• In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, where deferred tax assets are only 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable 
profit will be available against which the temporary difference  
can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed  
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit would be available to 
allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the following 
temporary differences: 
• Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes or the initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
• Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent 
that the timing of the reversal is controlled by the Company  
and they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
IAS 12 requires deferred tax to be provided in respect of 
undistributed profits of overseas subsidiaries unless the parent 
is able to control the timing of remittances and it is probable 
that such remittances will not be made in the foreseeable future. 
As the Group is able to control the timing of remittances from 
overseas subsidiaries, no provision has been made for any tax 
on undistributed profits of overseas subsidiaries. Similarly, no 
deferred tax assets or liabilities have been recognised in respect of 
temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries.
Employee share schemes 
The Group operates a number of share based incentive schemes, 
some of which entitle the beneficiary to shares (equity-settled) 
and others that entitle the beneficiary to cash (cash-settled). 
The schemes in place prior to 2005 were based on share price 
movements. A new equity-settled scheme was set up in 2005  
that was based on Total Shareholder Returns (TSR). The scheme 
was changed in 2010 and is now based 50% on Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) and 50% on Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth.
The fair values of options are calculated using Black-Scholes  
or Monte Carlo simulation models. 
For equity-settled options, Income Statement charges are made 
based on the fair value of these options at the date of grant  
and on the estimated number options expected to vest after 
adjusting for lapses due to leavers during the life of the scheme 
and achievement of any non-market based vesting conditions  
(for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Subsequently, 
at each balance sheet date prior to vesting of the relevant awards, 
the Group revises the estimates of the number of options that 
are expected to vest after adjusting for expected leavers and 
estimated achievement of non-market based vesting conditions. 
The Group recognises the expense in the Income Statement,  
and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of 
share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised 
as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the 
period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
payment. The liability is re-measured at each reporting date and  
at settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability  
are recognised as personnel expense in the Income Statement.
The Group makes charges to the Income Statement for any 
potential employer’s Social Security liability on options granted, 
based on an estimate of the fair value of the option. 
All of these charges are spread over the measurement period of 
the option.
Leases 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for short-term rental are recorded as plant and 
machinery within property, plant and equipment and depreciated 
over their estimated useful lives. Rental income from these assets is 
recognised as earned on a straight-line basis over the rental period. 58          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less provision 
for doubtful debts.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective 
evidence that amounts due will not be collected according to the 
original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of 
the debtor and default or delinquency in payments are considered 
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Dividends 
The recommended final annual dividend is not provided for until 
approved at the Annual General Meeting. Dividends are charged  
in the period they are paid.
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future  
cash flows at an appropriate discount rate.
Provisions for warranties, based on historical warranty data, are 
recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. 
Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group 
has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the 
restructuring has either commenced or has been announced. 
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the 
unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract 
exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. 
Segment reporting 
An operating segment is identified by IFRS 8 as a component of 
an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses 
relating to transactions with other components of the same entity; 
whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s  
Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources  
and assess its performance; and for which discrete financial 
information is available.
The Group is managed through three Divisions, which represent 
reporting segments that are compliant with IFRS 8.
The basis of organisation and types of products and services from 
which each reportable segment derives its revenues is disclosed  
in the Directors’ report.
Net financial expense 
Net financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings, 
interest receivable on funds invested, the amortisation of loan 
costs, foreign exchange gains and losses on external or inter-
company loans or investments to the extent that they are 
recognised in the Income Statement, the finance element of  
the charge or credit relating to defined benefit pension schemes 
and gains and losses on derivatives to the extent that they are 
recognised in the Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents represent cash on hand and demand 
deposits at banks. Demand deposits are short term highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of 
cash without penalty and that are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, 
which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management,  
are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for  
the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Change in accounting policies
The following amendments to published standards and 
interpretations are effective for the Group for the year ended 31 
December 2010: 
• IFRS 3 (revised 2008), Business Combinations; 
•  Amendment to IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements; 
•  Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items; 
•  Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment: Group  
Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions; 
• Improvements to IFRSs 2009;
The Group has reviewed the effect of these amendments and 
interpretations, and has concluded that they have no material 
impact on these consolidated financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 
1 January 2010, and have not been applied in preparing these 
consolidated financial statements. None of these is expected to 
have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          59
3 Segment reporting
Reportable segments
 Imaging    Corporate and    
 & Staging Videocom Services unallocated Consolidated
   2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:          
  Sales    153.7   141.8   121.3   145.1   7.2   6.1   -   -   282.2   293.0 
  Services    -   -   0.3   1.9   27.1   20.2   -   -   27.4   22.1 
Total revenue from external customers    153.7   141.8   121.6   147.0   34.3   26.3   -   -   309.6   315.1 
Inter-segment revenue
 (1)
    0.4   0.7   2.9   3.4   0.2   -   (3.5)  (4.1)  -   - 
Total revenue    154.1   142.5   124.5   150.4   34.5   26.3   (3.5)  (4.1)  309.6   315.1 
Operating profit before significant items    18.9   17.7  8.4  8.5  0.4  (1.7)  -   -   27.7   24.5 
Profit/(loss) on disposal of business    -   (0.7)  2.2   -   -   -   -   -   2.2  (0.7)
Curtailment gain on UK Defined benefit pension scheme    -   -   3.0   -   -   -   -   -   3.0   - 
Costs associated with UK Defined benefit pension scheme  
closure to future accrual    -   -   (0.5)  -   -   -   -   -   (0.5)  - 
Exit costs on Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) relocation project  -   -   (2.1)  -   -   -   -   -   (2.1)  - 
Impairment losses on property    (0.1)  (1.5)  -   -   -   -   -   -   (0.1) (1.5)
Restructuring costs    -   (2.3)  -   (8.2)  -   (0.4)  -   -   -  (10.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    (2.5)  (0.8)  (5.1)  (7.7)  -   -   -   -   (7.6) (8.5)
Segment result    16.3   12.4   5.9   (7.4)  0.4   (2.1)  -   -   22.6   2.9 
Net finance costs            (0.9) (1.1)
Taxation            (3.4)  1.4 
Profit for the year            18.3   3.2 
Segment assets    92.8   84.0   90.6   102.2   23.0   24.7   0.9   1.3   207.3   212.2 
Unallocated assets          
  Cash and cash equivalents          7.7   12.1   7.7   12.1 
  Current tax assets          0.3   -   0.3   - 
  Deferred tax assets          22.6   18.1   22.6   18.1 
Total assets            237.9   242.4 
Segment liabilities    30.4   25.2   29.2   40.7   1.9   2.1   4.5   2.9   66.0   70.9 
Unallocated liabilities          
  Bank overdrafts          1.0   -   1.0   - 
  Bank loans          34.8   52.7   34.8   52.7 
  Current tax liabilities          9.4   6.6   9.4   6.6 
  Deferred tax liabilities          2.4   1.0   2.4   1.0 
Total liabilities            113.6   131.2 
Cash flows from operating activities    15.6   19.3   4.2   6.0   4.2   4.7   8.5   6.4   32.5   36.4 
Cash flows from investing activities    (7.5)  (5.1)  -   (4.1)  (2.4)  (5.7)  -   (1.1)  (9.9) (16.0)
Cash flows from financing activities    -  -   -   (2.8)  -   -   (27.4)  (16.3)  (27.4) (19.1)
Capital expenditure           
  Property, plant and equipment    6.7   4.1   3.4   2.3   3.7   7.2   -   -   13.8   13.6 
  Intangible assets    1.1   1.0   1.5   0.7   0.1   -   -   -   2.7   1.7 
(1)
 Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.  60          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
3 Segment reporting continued
Geographical segments
 United  The Rest The The Rest of Corporate and    
 Kingdom of Europe Americas the World unallocated Consolidated
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:            
  by location of customer  22.8   21.6   72.8   74.9   154.0   167.1   60.0   51.5   -   -   309.6   315.1 
Segment assets 28.8 31.5 58.2  52.1   99.0  108.9 20.4 18.4 0.9 1.3 207.3  212.2 
Unallocated assets            
  Cash and cash equivalents         7.7 12.1 7.7  12.1 
  Current tax assets         0.3  -  0.3  - 
  Deferred tax assets         22.6 18.1 22.6  18.1 
Total assets           237.9 242.4
Cash flows from operating activities 4.7  8.2  15.0   14.7  3.1  5.4  1.2  1.7  8.5   6.4  32.5  36.4 
Cash flows from investing activities (1.4)  (1.0) (6.9)  (3.5) (0.9)  (10.1) (0.7)  (0.3)  -   (1.1) (9.9) (16.0)
Cash flows from financing activities  -   -   -   -   -   (2.8)  -   -  (27.4)  (16.3) (27.4)  (19.1)
Capital expenditure  
(including assets acquired within acquisitions)            
  Property, plant and equipment 0.6  0.7  6.1  4.0  6.5  8.7  0.6  0.2   -   -   13.8   13.6 
  Intangible assets 0.5  0.1  0.8  0.5  1.2  0.9  0.2  0.2   -   -   2.7   1.7 
4 Analysis of net operating expenses  
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Analysis of net operating expenses   
Administrative expenses   
  - Costs associated with UK Defined benefit pension scheme closure to future accrual      0.5   -
  - Exit costs on Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) Relocation Project       0.8   -
  - Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment        0.1   1.6 
  - Restructuring costs          -  10.9 
  - Amortisation of acquired intangible assets         7.6   8.5 
  - Other administrative expenses           44.5   40.9 
            53.5   61.9 
Marketing, selling and distribution costs          44.5   45.9 
Research, development and engineering costs
 (1)
         9.8   12.5 
Loss on disposal of business          -  0.7 
Net operating expenses          107.8   121.0
(1)
 Research, development and engineering costs for 2009 include £2.4 million relating to the Clear-Com business which was sold in 2010.  
5 Significant items
Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the 
understanding of the underlying trading and financial performance achieved by the Group and in making projections of future results.
Significant items comprise the following:
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
(a) Cost of sales          (1.3) -
£1.3 million of exit costs relating to the Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) relocation project were included in cost of sales. 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          61
5 Significant items continued
         2010 2009 
(b) Other operating income         £m £m
Profit on disposal of business          2.2   -
Curtailment gain on UK Defined benefit pension scheme         3.0   -
            5.2   - 
         2010 2009 
(c) Operating expenses         £m £m
Loss on disposal of business          - (0.7)
Costs associated with UK Defined benefit pension scheme closure to future accrual       (0.5)  -
Exit costs on Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) relocation project        (0.8)  -
Impairment loss on property          (0.1) (1.5)
Restructuring costs          - (10.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets          (7.6) (8.5)
            (9.0) (21.6)
On 1 April 2010, the Group sold its Clear-Com business, giving rise to a profit of £2.2 million. On 27 March 2009, the Group sold the IFF 
Staging business which gave rise to a loss of £0.7 million. See Note 24   
The closure of the UK Defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual on 31 July 2010 gave rise to a curtailment gain of £3.0 million 
(2009: £nil) and closure costs of £0.5 million (2009: £nil).   
£0.8 million of exit costs were incurred relating to the Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) Relocation Project.   
An impairment loss on property of £0.1 million (2009: £1.5 million) arose in the Imaging & Staging division.   
In 2009, restructuring costs of £10.9 million comprised £2.3 million within Imaging & Staging division, £8.2 million within Videocom division, 
and £0.4 million within Services division. These costs related to actions implemented or committed across all divisions in response to the 
severe downturn in market conditions.   
         2010 2009 
(d) Finance income         £m £m
Currency translation gains          0.1   0.3 
Net fair value gains on financial instruments           -  0.4 
            0.1   0.7 
The currency translation differences which arise on certain intra-Group funding balances that do not meet the strict criteria for net 
investment hedging, but are very similar in nature, are recorded in significant items within finance income. 
The Group uses options as part of its hedging of future foreign exchange cash flows. As such options are held to maturity, the ultimate 
net amount charged to the Income Statement in respect of any option will always equate to the initial premium paid for that option. 
However, as a result of the time value of such options being marked to market at each balance sheet date, volatile income and 
expenses can be introduced between periods and such amounts are therefore identified as significant other finance income or expense.  
         2010 2009 
(e) Taxation         £m £m
 Current tax credit          4.2   3.1 
Deferred tax credit          1.2   5.5 
            5.4   8.6 
The current tax credit of £4.2 million comprises mainly of tax refunds of £4.3 million (£2.3 million in Germany and £2.0 million in the US). 
£1.8m of the £2.3 million receipt in Germany arose due to a recalculation, by the German tax authorities, of the tax liabilities arising in 
respect of the operations of Camera Dynamics Limited in Germany. An additional £0.5 million was received from a decrease in the tax 
rate to 30% applied to the partnership operation of Camera Dynamics Limited in Germany. The £2.0 million tax refund in the US was 
received as a result of the surrender of losses incurred in the US operations in 2009 into the preceding years. £1.1 million of this loss 
was previously recognised as a deferred tax asset in the US and thus represents a transfer from deferred to current tax.  
The deferred tax credit of £1.2 million arises mainly due to: the recognition of US deferred tax assets both on intangibles and in respect of 
the disposal of the Clear-Com business. This is offset by the non-recognition of US deferred tax assets due to a revision in the assessment 
of the recoverability of the full deferred tax asset. Additionally deferred tax assets have been recognised in the UK, offset by the reversal of 
deferred tax assets from various other jurisdictions, again due to a revised assessment of the recoverability of these tax losses. 62          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
6 Operating profit
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
The following items are included in operating profit   
Depreciation          13.6   14.3 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets          7.6   8.5 
Amortisation of capitalised software and development costs        1.4   1.3 
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment         (1.3) (1.0)
Net loss on disposal of capitalised software          0.2   -
Employee share-based incentive schemes          1.0   1.4 
Net foreign exchange losses          1.0   1.7 
Operating lease rental expense   
  Plant, machinery and vehicles          0.4   0.5 
  Property          5.3   5.5 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements     0.1   0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services   
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation        0.4   0.4 
  Other services relating to taxation          -  0.1 
  Other services          0.1   0.1 
7 Employees
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Aggregate remuneration of all employees during the year   
Wages and salaries
 (1)
          70.5   80.9 
Employers’ social security costs          9.5   10.6 
Employers’ pension costs - defined benefit schemes         (1.6)  2.3 
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes        1.2   1.1 
Other employment benefits          2.9   4.2 
Cost of equity-settled employee share schemes         1.0   1.4 
            83.5   100.5 
(1)
 Wages and salaries for 2009 include £4.1 million of redundancy payments made as part of the restructuring.
         2010 2009 
         Total Total
Average number of employees during the year   
Imaging & Staging          895   869 
Videocom          798   916 
Services
 (2)
          198   156 
Head Office          16   16 
            1,907   1,957 
         2010 2009 
         Total Total
Number of employees as at 31 December   
Imaging & Staging          915   810 
Videocom          783   861 
Services
 (2)
          201   148 
Head Office          17   16 
            1,916   1,835 
(2)
  The increase in the number of employees arises mainly from previously self-employed sub-contractors becoming employed under a contract of employment  
in 2010. 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          63
8 Directors’ remuneration
The emoluments, share options, awards under incentive schemes and pension entitlements of the directors are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 35.   
The combined remuneration of the directors of the Group is set out below:
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Fees for non-executive duties          0.3  0.2 
Remuneration for executive duties          1.4  1.4 
            1.7  1.6 
9 Net financial expense
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Financial income   
Expected return on assets in the pension scheme         2.8   2.2 
Net currency translation gains
 (1)
          0.4   0.5 
            3.2   2.7 
Finance expense   
Interest payable on bank borrowings          (1.2) (1.6)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities         (2.8) (2.2)
Net fair value losses on financial instruments
 (2)
         (0.1)  -
            (4.1) (3.8)
Net finance expense          (0.9) (1.1)
(1)
  Within this balance is a net currency translation gain of £0.1 million (2009: £0.3 million) which is recorded in significant items within finance income. See Note 5.
(2)
  Within this balance is the impact of ‘time value’ movements on the Group’s options of £nil (2009: £0.4 million gain) which is recorded in significant items within 
finance income. See Note 5. 64          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
10 Tax        
Recognised in the Income Statement        
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Before Significant Items        
Current tax         9.1 3.6
Deferred tax          (0.3) 3.6
           8.8 7.2
Significant Items        
Current tax
 (1)
         (4.2) (3.1)
Deferred tax
 (2)
         (1.2) (5.5)
           (5.4) (8.6)
Summarised in the Income Statement as follows        
Current tax         4.9 0.5
Deferred tax          (1.5) (1.9)
           3.4 (1.4)
(1)
 Current tax credits of £4.2 million have been recognised with a corresponding credit to significant items. These are explained in Note 5.
(2)
 Deferred tax credits of £1.2 million have been recognised with a corresponding credit to significant items. These are explained in Note 5.
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Current tax expense        
Charge for the year         8.4 0.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years         (3.5)  -
            4.9 0.5
The UK current tax credit represents £1.3 million of the total Group current tax charge of £4.9 million, offset by a £6.2 million charge 
relating to overseas tax.
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Deferred tax expense        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences         (1.5) (1.9)
Tax credits recognised in SOCIE
 (3)
         (2.3)  -
           (3.8) (1.9)
(3) 
Deferred tax credits of £2.3 million have been recognised in the SOCIE in respect of the deferred tax recognised on the UK defined benefit pension scheme.
There was £nil tax recognised on cash flow hedges.        
The UK deferred tax credit represents £3.2 million of the total Group deferred tax credit of £3.8 million, with the remaining credit of  
£0.6 million relating to overseas tax.        
       2010 2010 2009 2009 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate       % £m % £m
Profit before tax        21.7  1.8
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate      28% 6.1 28% 0.5
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions       (6%) (1.3) 4% 0.1
Non-deductible expenses       8% 1.7 11% 0.2
Impact of business disposal       (12%) (2.7) 0%  -
Impact of tax credits in respect of prior years      (21%) (4.6) 0%  -
Write down/non-recognition of deferred tax assets      0%  - 150% 2.7
Write down of current tax liabilities       0%  - (170%) (3.1)
Benefit of tax losses recognised       (10%) (2.1) (89%) (1.6)
Impact of tax losses not recognised       28% 6.0 0%  -
Other       1% 0.3 (11%) (0.2)
Total income tax expense/(credit) in Income Statement       16% 3.4 (77%) (1.4)
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          65
11 Earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit after tax of £18.3 million (2009: £3.2 million) and on the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year of 42,754,835 (2009: 42,483,776).      
Adjusted basic earnings per share is presented as the directors consider that this gives a useful additional indication of the ongoing 
earnings performance of the Group. This calculation is based on profit after tax but before significant items. In 2010 this profit was  
£17.9 million (2009: £15.5 million).      
Reconciliation of earnings and effect on basic earnings per share
       Profit Earnings per share
       2010 2009 2010 2009 
       £m £m pence pence
Profit for the financial year         18.3   3.2   42.8   7.5 
Add back: significant items         (0.4)  12.3   (0.9)  29.0 
Earnings before significant items          17.9   15.5   41.9   36.5 
Reconciliation of shares and effect on basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share, and basic adjusted earnings per share 
and diluted adjusted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share of 41.9p (2009: 7.4p) is based on profit after tax of £18.3 million (2009: £3.2 million) and on 
43,721,329 (2009: 43,181,174) ordinary shares.      
The calculation of diluted adjusted earnings per share of 41.0p (2009: 35.9p) is based on profit after tax but before significant items of 
£17.9 million (2009: £15.5 million) and on 43,721,329 (2009: 43,181,174) ordinary shares.
       Adjusted earnings 
     Number of shares Earnings per share per share 
       2010 2009 2010 2009 
     2010 2009 pence pence pence pence
Basic weighted average number of shares     42,754,835 42,483,776 42.8 7.5 41.9 36.5
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:       
Employee share options     916,797 683,823 (0.9) (0.1) (0.9) (0.6)
Deferred bonus plan     49,697 13,575  -   -   -   - 
Diluted weighted average number of shares     43,721,329 43,181,174 41.9 7.4 41.0 35.9 66          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
12 Intangible assets
       Acquired   Capitalised 
       intangible  Capitalised development 
      Total assets
 (1)
 Goodwill software costs
 (4)
 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Cost         
At 1 January 2009       107.6   37.6   58.4  11.6   -
Currency translation adjustments       (10.3)  (4.3)  (5.3)  (0.7)  -
Additions       2.8   -  1.1   1.1   0.6 
Disposals       (1.1)  -  -  (1.1)  -
At 31 December 2009       99.0  33.3  54.2  10.9   0.6 
At 1 January 2010       99.0  33.3  54.2   10.9   0.6 
Currency translation adjustments       2.5  1.4   1.2   (0.1)  -
Additions       2.7   -  - 1.2   1.5 
Reductions
 (2)
       (0.1)  -  (0.1)  -  -
Disposals       (0.2)  -  -  (0.2)  -
Disposals - on disposal of subsidiary       (3.3)  (0.5)  (2.6)  (0.2)  -
At 31 December 2010       100.6   34.2   52.7  11.6  2.1 
Amortisation and impairment losses         
At 1 January 2009       36.0   17.0   10.6   8.4   -
Currency translation adjustment       (3.9)  (2.5)  (1.0)  (0.4)  -
Amortisation in the year       9.8   8.5   -  1.3   -
Disposals       (1.1)  -  -  (1.1)  -
At 31 December 2009       40.8   23.0   9.6   8.2   -
At 1 January 2010       40.8   23.0   9.6   8.2   -
Currency translation adjustment       1.1   1.0   0.2   (0.1)  -
Impairment charge
 (3)
       0.1   -  -  0.1   -
Amortisation in the year       9.0   7.6   -  1.2   0.2 
Disposals - on disposal of subsidiary       (2.2)  (0.1)  (1.9)  (0.2)  -
At 31 December 2010       48.8   31.5   7.9   9.2   0.2 
Carrying amounts         
At 1 January 2009       71.6   20.6   47.8   3.2   -
At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010       58.2   10.3   44.6   2.7   0.6 
At 31 December 2010       51.8   2.7   44.8   2.4   1.9 
(1)
 Acquired intangible assets are primarily customer relationships, brand names, intellectual property and patents.
(2)
 The reduction in goodwill of £0.1 million relates to the return of funds on the expiry of the escrow account that was created on the acquisition of Tomcat.
(3)
 An impairment charge of £0.1 million was made to the capitalised software of the Staging business, in the Imaging & Staging division.
(4)
 The Group’s policy on capitalisation of development costs is stated in Note 2.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          67
12 Intangible assets continued
Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, the Group’s goodwill of £44.8 million (2009 £44.6 million) is allocated across 8 CGUs which 
are represented by some of the Group’s trading businesses as shown in the table below. Assets that cannot be tested individually are 
grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of  
the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets.
         2010 2009 
CGU         £m £m
Camera Dynamics         9.9 9.8
IMT (formerly RF Extreme)         9.8 9.6
Manfrotto Bags         7.8 7.6
Litepanels         6.1 5.9
Staging Systems         5.2 5.3
Services         3.6 3.5
Manfrotto Distribution         1.2 1.2
Anton/Bauer         1.2 1.1
Clear Com         - 0.6
Total         44.8 44.6
Each individual CGU is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is a specific indication of impairment.
Taking account of the current economic environment and other risks, a review of the goodwill has led to no change to the carrying values 
in the current period. There have also been no indications of impairment in 2010 as there are no indicators of permanent diminutions in 
business performance at CGU level.
Methodology and Key Assumptions
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognised in the Income Statement. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit  
(group of units) on a pro rata basis.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a post-tax discount rate  
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and specific risks.
The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, achievability of future margins, changes in working capital  
and the discount rate used in the present value calculation. The information used for valuation purposes takes into consideration  
past experience and the current economic environment, the ability to introduce price increases and new products and experience  
in controlling the underlying cost base.
The Group’s methodology is to use a projection period, with five years being the maximum period over which detailed future cash flows 
for each CGU are prepared. These cash flow projections reflect the most recent board approved budget and strategic plans for 2011  
to 2013 and projections for 2014 to 2015. For periods after 2015, a long term growth rate has been applied to derive a terminal value. 
The long term growth rate has been calculated based principally on current growth rates of the relevant markets of the CGUs. Growth 
rates for the period beyond 2015 are assumed to be 2% which is considered to be at or below long-term market trends for each CGU. 
Cash flow projections have been discounted to present value using the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 6.8% 
(calculated using market assumptions) adjusted for CGU-specific risk factors, including markets and size of business, of between  
an additional 0.5% points to 2.5% points. Pre-tax weighted average cost of capital is calculated at 12% to 14%. 68          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued
12 Intangible assets continued
Sensitivities
The following specific individual sensitivities have been considered:
  - a 1% point increase in the discount rate applied to each CGU; and
  - a reduction in the long-term growth rate assumption to 1%.
No impairment in any CGU would arise from these sensitivities.
For Staging Systems and Services, the forecast cash flows used for impairment testing reflect an improvement in the performance of 
both businesses. If this improvement is not achieved then there is a risk that the goodwill and intangible assets of these businesses may 
require some impairment in future years.
Significant CGUs
Further disclosures in accordance with paragraph 134 of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, are provided where the Group holds an 
individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is significant, which the Group considers to be 20% of the total net book value, in 
comparison with the Group’s total carrying value of goodwill.
The only CGUs that are significant are Camera Dynamics and IMT.
For both Camera Dynamics and IMT, a post-tax discount rate of 8.3% and a long term growth rate of 2% were used.  Using the above 
methodology, the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value in the case of the Camera Dynamics CGU by £201.4 million and 
in the case of the IMT CGU by £35.9 million. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          69
13 Property, plant and equipment        
         Plant, Equipment, 
        Land machinery fixtures 
        and and and 
       Total buildings vehicles
 (1)
 fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2009       162.5  34.8   108.1   19.6 
Currency translation adjustments       (13.6)  (2.6)  (9.7) (1.3)
Additions        13.6  1.4   11.5   0.7 
Transfers between asset categories        -  (0.1)  0.6  (0.5)
Disposals        (15.3)  (0.1)  (11.4) (3.8)
At 31 December 2009        147.2   33.4   99.1   14.7 
At 1 January 2010        147.2   33.4   99.1   14.7 
Currency translation adjustments        0.1   (0.5)  0.6   -
Additions         13.8   2.7   8.3   2.8 
Disposals        (8.8)  (0.3)  (7.9) (0.6)
Disposals - on disposal of subsidiary        (4.5)  (0.3)  (2.6) (1.6)
At 31 December 2010        147.8   35.0   97.5   15.3 
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2009       98.9  11.9   73.6   13.4 
Currency translation adjustments       (8.4)  (0.8)  (6.6) (1.0)
Depreciation charge for the year       14.3  1.4   11.5   1.4 
Impairment loss       2.5  1.5   0.9   0.1 
Transfers between asset categories        -  -  0.2  (0.2)
Disposals       (14.7)  (0.2)  (12.1) (2.4)
At 31 December 2009        92.6   13.8   67.5   11.3 
At 1 January 2010        92.6   13.8   67.5   11.3 
Currency translation adjustments        (0.1)  (0.3)  0.3  (0.1)
Depreciation charge for the year        13.6   1.2   11.1   1.3 
Impairment loss        0.1   0.1   -  -
Transfers between asset categories        -  (0.1)  0.2  (0.1)
Disposals        (8.1)  (0.3)  (7.3) (0.5)
Disposals - on disposal of subsidiary        (3.7)  (0.2)  (2.1) (1.4)
At 31 December 2010        94.4   14.2   69.7   10.5 
Carrying amounts    
At 1 January 2009        63.6   22.9   34.5   6.2 
At 31 December 2009 and 1 January 2010        54.6   19.6   31.6   3.4 
At 31 December 2010        53.4   20.8   27.8   4.8 
(1)
  Plant, machinery and vehicles includes broadcast equipment rental assets with an original cost of £43.9 million (2009: £44.0 million) and accumulated 
depreciation of £31.1 million (2009: £29.9 million).
An impairment loss of £0.1 million (2009: £2.5 million) comprises of £0.1 million (2009: £1.5 million) relating to property in the Imaging & 
Staging Division included within “Operating Expenses”, £nil (2009: £0.9 million) relating to obsolete broadcast equipment rental assets 
in the Services Division included within “Cost of Sales”, and £nil (2009: £0.1 million) relating to fixtures & fittings in the Videocom division 
included in “Operating Expenses”. 70          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
14 Fixed asset investments 
The Group’s principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2010 are listed below. All subsidiaries are 100% owned within the Group.
        Country of incorporation
Vitec Group US Holdings Inc          USA
Vitec Holdings Limited          Guernsey
Vitec Investments Limited          UK*
Videocom  
ALC Broadcast Limited          UK
Anton/Bauer Inc          USA
Camera Dynamics Limited          UK*
Camera Dynamics Limitada          Costa Rica
Camera Dynamics Inc          USA
LCB Beteiligungs GmbH          Germany
Litepanels Inc          USA
Integrated Microwave Technologies LLC (previously RF Extreme LLC)        USA
Imaging & Staging   
Manfrotto Distribution Inc           USA
Gitzo SA          France
Vitecgroup Italia SpA          Italy
Manfrotto Bags Ltd (previously Kata Vitec I Limited)         Israel
Services   
Vitec Broadcast Services Inc          USA
* Indicates companies directly owned by the parent company.   
A complete list of subsidiary companies will be included in the next annual return to the Registrar of Companies.   
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
      Recognised Recognised Transferred   
      in in to current Exchange  
     2010 income reserves tax movements 2009 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     2.2 0.4 -  -  - 1.8
Intangible assets     5.3 1.6 -  - 0.1 3.6
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     3.6 (0.7) -  (1.1) 0.1 5.3
Property, plant, equipment & other     11.5 1.7 2.3  - 0.1 7.4
       22.6 3.0 2.3 (1.1) 0.3 18.1
Liabilities          
Inventories      -  -  -  -  -  -
Intangible assets     (2.3) (1.9)  -  -  0.1  (0.5)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      -  -  -  -  -  -
Property, plant, equipment & other     (0.1) 0.4  -  -  - (0.5)
       (2.4) (1.5)  -  - 0.1 (1.0)
Net     20.2 1.5 2.3 (1.1) 0.4 17.1
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          71
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
      Recognised Recognised Transferred   
      in in to current Exchange  
     2009 income reserves tax movements 2008 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     1.8 (0.9)  -  - (0.3) 3.0
Intangible assets     3.6 (2.0)  -  - (0.5) 6.1
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     5.3 2.4  -  - (0.2) 3.1
Property, plant, equipment & other     7.4 2.4  -  - (0.6) 5.6
       18.1 1.9  -  - (1.6) 17.8
Liabilities          
Inventories      -  -  -  -  -  -
Intangible assets     (0.5)  -  -  -  - (0.5)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      -  -  -  -  -  -
Property, plant, equipment & other     (0.5)  -  -  - 0.5 (1.0)
       (1.0)  -  -  - 0.5 (1.5)
Net     17.1 1.9 -  - (1.1) 16.3
Unrecognised deferred tax assets         
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Capital allowances          -  2.0 
Short term timing differences          -  0.1 
Losses          4.8   1.8 
Temporary differences on share options          1.2   -
Temporary differences on pension scheme liabilities         -  0.8 
Total          6.0   4.7 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not sufficiently probable that future taxable profit 
will be generated to utilise the tax losses.     
Deferred tax assets totalling £14.1 million have been recognised in the US on the basis that future profits are expected to be made in the 
US businesses such that it is probable that these assets will be utilised in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets of £3.2 million have 
been recognised in the UK due to the continuing profitability of the UK businesses. 
No taxes have been provided for liabilities which may arise on the distribution of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries on the basis of 
control, except where distributions of such profits are planned. Cumulative unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates 
totalled approximately £67.0 million at 31 December 2010 (2009: £52.0 million). It is not practical to calculate the tax which would arise 
on remittance of these amounts and, as dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries to the UK should be exempt from additional UK 
tax, no significant tax charges would be expected.          72          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
16 Inventories
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Raw materials and components         14.7 11.7
Work in progress         9.6 9.3
Finished goods         31.1 30.9
Net inventories          55.4 51.9 
   
         2010 2009 
Provisions against inventory obsolescence        £m £m
Balance at 1 January         22.1 18.0
Increase during the year         2.0 6.7
Utilised during the year         (5.7) (1.1)
Currency translation adjustments         0.5 (1.5)
Balance at 31 December         18.9 22.1 
The provision for inventory obsolescence as at 31 December 2010 was £18.9 million (2009: £22.1 million). Management believe that this 
provision is adequate to cover the risk of inventory obsolescence.
17 Trade and other receivables
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Short term receivables   
Trade receivables, net of provisions          34.9  35.0
Other receivables          7.1   6.2 
Prepayments and accrued income          3.4   4.3 
            45.4   45.5 
Long term receivables   
Other receivables          0.4   0.3 
            0.4   0.3 
Total receivables          45.8   45.8 
   
         2010 2009 
Gross trade receivables - days overdue
 (1)
         £m £m
Current          30.0   24.6 
1-30 days          5.2   8.0 
31-60 days          1.5   2.9 
61-90 days          0.8   1.6 
over 90 days          2.1   2.7 
Gross trade receivables          39.6   39.8 
(1)
 Days overdue are measured from the date an invoice was due to be paid.   
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          73
17 Trade and other receivables continued
         2010 2009 
Provisions against trade receivables         £m £m
Balance at 1 January          4.8   4.2 
Increased during the year          4.0   5.0 
Utilised during the year          (4.2) (4.1)
Currency translation adjustments          0.1  (0.3)
Balance at 31 December          4.7   4.8 
The trade receivables impairment provision as at 31 December 2010 was £4.7 million (2009: £4.8 million) consisting of £2.8 million 
(2009: £3.3 million) for bad debts and £1.9 million (2009: £1.5 million) for sales returns and discounts. Management believe that this 
provision is adequate to cover the risk of bad debts and any exposure to credit risk. 
18 Financial instruments
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. Derivative financial instruments 
are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates only.
Credit risk
The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Trade receivable balances are 
reviewed regularly for cash flow forecasting purposes and to ensure that overdue receivables are followed up on a timely basis. Credit 
evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. Trade receivables past their due date but not impaired 
amount to £4.9 million (2009: £10.4 million) - see Note 17. The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are only with banks that are part of the Group’s £125 million Multicurrency Revolving 
Credit Facility Agreement. Therefore management does not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented  
by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
Liquidity risk
On 8 August 2008 the Group signed a 5 year £125 million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate of five  
UK and European banks. At 31 December 2010 only 28% of this committed borrowing facility was being utilised.
Interest rate risk
All the Group’s borrowings and investments are at floating rates. Management currently believes that the benefits of fixing a proportion  
of its interest costs are outweighed by the costs. Other monetary assets are not considered to be exposed to interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the 
functional currency of the business unit. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollar, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group aims to hedge 75% of its forecasted foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases for the following 
12 months. The Group uses forward exchange contracts (“forwards”), simple options and “cylinders” (a combination of two offsetting 
simple options at different rates) to hedge its foreign currency risk. All these contracts have maturities of less than one year at the 
balance sheet date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than Sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept 
to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short term imbalances.
Recognised assets and liabilities
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and for which no 
hedge accounting is applied are recognised in the Income Statement. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives and any foreign 
exchange gains and losses relating to the monetary assets and liabilities are recognised as part of Cost of Sales.  74          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
18 Financial instruments continued
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiary
The Group’s US Dollar and Euro loans, certain inter-company loans and forward contracts are designated as a hedge of the Group’s 
investment in subsidiaries overseas. Intercompany loans for which payment is not planned in the foreseeable future are classified as net 
investments and so any gain or loss on exchange is taken to reserves.
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, it is estimated that a general increase of 1% point in interest rates, increasing the Group’s 
weighted average cost of borrowing to 2.3%, would decrease the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £0.8 million. This reflects 
increased interest costs on the Group’s borrowings.
Correspondingly it is estimated that a general decrease of 1% point in interest rates would decrease the Group’s weighted average cost 
of borrowing to 0.3%. However due to the margin charged on the loans drawn down from the Group’s loan facility the lowest weighted 
average interest rate the Group could incur is about 0.95%. If interest rates did fall to this level it is estimated this would increase the 
Group’s profit before tax by approximately £0.3 million. This reflects the decreased interest costs on the Group’s borrowings.
It is estimated that a 1% point stronger US Dollar against Pound Sterling and Euro (i.e. 1.6 cents and 1.3 cents respectively) would have 
increased the Group’s operating profit before significant items for the year ended 31 December 2010 by approximately £0.3 million and 
that a one percentage point weaker US Dollar against Pound Sterling and Euro (i.e. 1.6 cents and 1.3 cents respectively) would have 
decreased the Group’s operating profit before significant items for the year ended 31 December 2010 by approximately £0.3 million.
Fair value     
a) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
The table below shows the fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Carrying values are not significantly different to the fair values.
         2010 2009 
         Fair value Fair value 
         £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets         0.9 1.5
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities          (1.0) (0.3)
Option exchange contracts - Assets           -   0.2 
Cash at bank and in hand          7.7   12.1 
Net trade receivables          34.9   35.0 
Trade payables          (23.4) (21.8)
Floating rate borrowings
 (1)
          (35.8) (52.7)
            (16.7) (26.0)
Market rates have been used to determine fair values.     
(1)
 Floating rate borrowings in currencies other than Pound Sterling are used for the purpose of net investment hedging.
Estimation of fair values      
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected  
in the table:      
Derivatives      
The fair value of forward exchange and option exchange contracts have been determined based on spot exchange rates and quoted 
rates as at 31 December 2010.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          75
18 Financial instruments continued
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market by calculating the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate. 
Option exchange contracts are marked to market by obtaining quotes from banks of their market value as at 31 December. 
i) Maturity profile of derivatives      
All derivatives mature within the next 12 months. The maturity profile of derivatives is shown below.    
          From six 
        Total Within six months to 
        2010 months one year 
        £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets         0.9   0.3   0.6 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities         (1.0)  (0.7) (0.3)
           (0.1)  (0.4)  0.3 
      
        2009 
        £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets        1.5  1.3   0.2 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities         (0.3)  (0.1) (0.2)
Option exchange contracts - Assets         0.2   -  0.2 
           1.4   1.2   0.2 
The Group had the following option exchange and forward exchange contracts in place at the balance sheet date:
        Average   Average 
        exchange  exchange  
         rate of  rate of 
       Millions contracts Millions contracts 
      Currency 2010 2010 2009 2009
USD / EUR option exchange contracts       USD  -  - 7.3 1.45
USD / GBP forward exchange contracts       USD 20.6 1.55 29.9 1.59
USD / EUR forward exchange contracts       USD 33.7 1.37 29.3 1.37
EUR / GBP forward exchange contracts       EUR 10.2 1.11 12.7 1.13
GBP / EUR forward exchange contracts       GBP 5.7 0.83  -  -
JPY / GBP forward exchange contracts       JPY 262 138.00 291 148.00
JPY / EUR forward exchange contracts       JPY 288 121.00 375 130.00
Cash at bank and in hand     
The fair value of cash has been determined based on the actual position reported by the financial institution, adjusted for reconciling 
items as at 31 December 2010. Where these financial instruments are denominated in a foreign currency, the fair value in Sterling has 
been determined at spot exchange rates as at 31 December 2010.  
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      
All interest bearing loans and borrowings are at floating rates. Therefore, the fair value of these loans and borrowings is their  
carrying value.        
Trade and other receivables/payables      
For trade receivables and payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.  
All other trade receivables and payables are discounted to determine the fair value.  76          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
18 Financial instruments continued  
Fair value hierarchy      
IFRS 7 requires that for fair value measurements recognised in the Statement of Financial Position, an entity shall disclose for each class 
of financial instruments the level in the fair value hierarchy into which the fair value measurements are categorised in their entirety. 
The fair value hierarchy is defined by IFRS 7 as follows:    
 -  Level 1 - quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities    
 -  Level 2 - inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
(ie, as prices) or indirectly (ie, derived from prices)    
 - Level 3 - inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs)   
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety shall be determined on the basis 
of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. All financial instruments are deemed level 2 and 
there have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2.     
b) Financial liabilities
i) Analysis of liabilities    
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Bank overdraft          1.0  -
Bank loans          34.8 52.7
Total borrowings          35.8   52.7 
Trade payables          23.4   21.8 
Forward exchange contracts          1.0   0.3 
Gross financial liabilities          60.2   74.8 
ii) Maturity profile of liabilities
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including undiscounted future interest payments:
       2010   From one 
       Carrying Contractual Within to five 
        amount cash flows one year years 
       £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans/overdrafts        35.8   (38.3)  (2.5) (35.8)
Trade payables        23.4   (23.4)  (23.4)  - 
Forward exchange contracts        1.0   (1.0)  (1.0)  -
          60.2 (62.7)  (26.9) (35.8) 
       2009   From one 
       Carrying Contractual Within to five 
        amount cash flows one year years 
       £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans       52.7   (60.0)  (2.0) (58.0)
Trade payables        21.8   (21.8)  (21.8)  -
Forward exchange contracts        0.3   (0.3)  (0.3)  -
          74.8   (82.1)  (24.1) (58.0) 
On 8 August 2008 the Group signed a five year £125 million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate of five 
UK and European banks. During the year the weighted average cost of borrowing was 1.3% (2009: 1.4%).   
The total amount of bank loans and overdrafts any part of which falls due after 5 years is £nil (2009: £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          77
18 Financial instruments continued  
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:    
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Expiring in one year or less    
- uncommitted facilities          15.3  15.0 
More than two years but not more than five years    
- committed facilities          90.2   72.3 
Total          105.5   87.3 
iii) Interest rate profile     
          Floating rate 
          borrowings 
Currency          £m
Yen           2.4 
US Dollar           25.6 
Euro           6.8 
Sterling           1.0 
At 31 December 2010           35.8 
Yen           2.0 
US Dollar           29.1 
Euro           11.6 
Sterling           10.0 
At 31 December 2009           52.7 
The floating rate borrowings comprise bank borrowings bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR.
c) Financial assets     
         2010 2009 
Currency         £m £m
US Dollar          18.7  21.3
Euro          18.0  19.4
Sterling          -  4.7
Other          5.9  1.7
Total cash and receivable balances          42.6  47.1
Forward exchange contracts          0.9  1.5
Option exchange contracts          -  0.2
Gross financial assets          43.5  48.8 
Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Yen balances within the UK can be offset as all the balances are held within a single facility.   
The forward exchange contracts all mature within twelve months.     
The Group holds cash in a number of major financial institutions worldwide and periodically reviews their credit worthiness to ensure the 
Group is not exposed to counter party risk.     
The following exchange rates significant to the Group applied during the year:     
       Year Average Year Average 
        end rate rate end rate rate 
       2010 2010 2009 2009
US Dollar       1.566 1.551 1.615 1.562
Euro       1.167 1.165 1.126 1.118 78          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
19 Current tax
The current tax liability of £9.4 million (2009: £6.6 million) represents the amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior 
periods. The current tax asset of £0.3 million (2009: nil) represents the income taxes repayable by various tax authorities.  
20 Reconciliation of decrease in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents         (4.8)  1.3 
Net repayment of loans and other borrowings         19.0   11.2 
Decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows         14.2   12.5 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held         (0.6) (4.1)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on debt held         (1.1)  4.0 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on net debt         (1.7) (0.1)
Movements in net debt in the year          12.5   12.4 
Net debt at 1 January          (40.6) (53.0)
Net debt at 31 December           (28.1) (40.6)
Cash and cash equivalents          7.7   12.1 
Bank overdrafts          (1.0)  -
Bank loans          (34.8) (52.7)
Net debt at 31 December          (28.1) (40.6)
21 Trade and other payables
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Current trade and other payables   
Payments received on account          2.4   1.8 
Trade payables          23.4   21.8 
Other tax and social security costs          2.6   3.0 
Other payables          10.3   6.6 
Advanced payments received, accruals and deferred income         12.5   13.4 
            51.2   46.6 
22 Provisions 
          Contingent 
          consideration 
          on  
         Warranty acquisition of 
       Total Restructuring and claims subsidiaries 
       £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010        13.0   6.5   2.1   4.4 
Provisions transferred on disposal of subsidiary       (0.7)  (0.2)  (0.2) (0.3)
Provisions utilised during the year        (7.3)  (4.4)  (0.3) (2.6)
Charged to the Income Statement        1.6   -  1.6   -
Currency translation adjustments        0.2  (0.1)  -  0.3 
At 31 December 2010        6.8   1.8   3.2   1.8 
Current        4.6   1.1   2.5   1.0 
Non-current        2.2   0.7   0.7   0.8 
          6.8   1.8   3.2   1.8 
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          79
22 Provisions continued 
The contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries of £1.8 million relates to the following acquisitions: 
• Litepanels - In 2010, a payment of US$4.0 million (£2.6 million) was made in relation to some of the 2009 profitability targets having been 
achieved. Management’s estimate at 31 December 2010 of a likely payout for 2011 profitability target is US$1.3 million (£0.8 million).
• Integrated Microwave Technology (“IMT”, previously RF Extreme) - Management’s estimate at 31 December 2010 of a likely payout 
is US$1.5 million (£1.0 million). This is the maximum potential contingent consideration payable, conditional on the achievement of 
profitability targets for 2010.
The remaining provisions comprise warranty provisions of £2.4 million (2009: £2.1 million), provisions for claims of £0.8 million  
(2009: £nil) and provision for restructuring of £1.8 million (2009: £6.5 million).
Provisions for warranties are based on the probability of goods requiring repair or replacement calculated using historical warranty data 
and the best estimate of the costs to be incurred in respect of defective products, and are recognised when the underlying products or 
services are sold on or before the reporting date. The provision is expected to be utilised over a period of up to 5 years. Management  
are confident that these provisions are adequate to cover the risk of warranty claims against the Group.
The provision for claims relates to the exit costs on the Broadcast Auxiliary Services (BAS) Relocation Project at IMT.   
The restructuring provision relates to a programme that was fully committed to at 31 December 2009, and includes an amount in 
respect of an onerous lease. The provision will be utilised by 2015.       
23 Share capital and reserves 
Authorised share capital 
As agreed by the shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company’s Articles of Association were amended with effect 
from 17 May 2010 to remove the requirement for the Company to have an authorised share capital, the concept of which was abolished 
under the Companies Act 2006.     
          Nominal 
         Number of value 
         Shares £m
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2010         42,949,175 8.6
Exercise of share options         203,159  - 
At 31 December 2010         43,152,334 8.6
At 31 December 2010 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes:
          Dates 
        Number Exercise normally 
        of shares prices  exercisable
United Kingdom SAYE schemes        616,461 131p-491p 2011-2015
International SAYE schemes        865,110 131p-522p 2011-2015
Executive schemes        248,775 298p-525p 2011-2018
          1,730,346  
Please see Note 26a for share based payments.    80          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
23 Share capital and reserves continued
On 8 March 2010, awards over an aggregate of 613,578 shares in the Company were made to 65 senior Group executives under the 
Company’s 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan. The total number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2010 under the Company’s 2005 
Long Term Incentive Plan was 1,662,019 (2009: 1,515,564), taking into account the lapsing of awards granted in 2008 because the 
performance condition over 2008, 2009 and 2010 was not met and assuming that achievement of the performance condition for the 
awards granted in 2009 and 2010 will be 100% to show the maximum number of awards that could possibly vest. The terms of the 
awards and the related performance conditions are described in the Remuneration Report.  
On 9 March 2010, Core awards over an aggregate of 55,029 shares in the Company were made to seven senior Group executives 
under the Company’s 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan (any Matching awards, up to a maximum of 100% of the Core awards, will be 
calculated on vesting). The total number of Core awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 under the Company’s 2005 Deferred  
Bonus Plan was 78,888 (2009: 31,919). The terms of the awards and the related performance conditions are described in the 
Remuneration Report.
Translation reserve     
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.       
Capital redemption reserve     
The capital redemption reserve was created in 1999 when the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 885,000 ordinary 
shares.
Cash flow hedging reserve     
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are 
designated as effective cash flow hedge relationships.
During the year, the £0.7 million relating to derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships was released to the Income Statement in Cost 
of sales.
Own shares     
Own shares held, including treasury shares and shares held by the Vitec Employee Benefit Trust (the Vitec EBT), are recognised as a 
deduction from retained earnings.     
Treasury shares - As at 31 December 2009, 150,000 ordinary shares of 20p each at a cost of £0.7 million were held in Treasury.  
During the year these were transferred into the Vitec Employee Benefit Trust for £nil consideration. As at 31 December 2010,  
the Company holds no ordinary shares in Treasury.
Own shares (Employee benefit trust) - The own shares reserve represents the cost of ordinary shares in The Vitec Group plc purchased 
in the market and held by the Vitec Employee Benefit Trust (the Vitec EBT) to satisfy options under the Group’s share award plans  
(see Note 26a).
As at 31 December 2010, the Vitec EBT held 699,755 (2009: 289,755) ordinary shares of 20p each at a cost of £2.4 million  
(2009: £0.6 million), representing 1.6% of the issued share capital.    
During 2010, 150,000 ordinary shares were transferred from Treasury for £nil consideration and 260,000 ordinary shares were  
acquired by the Company at a cost of £1.1 million.
Dividends      
After the balance sheet date the following dividend was recommended by the directors. The dividend has not been provided for  
at the year end and there are no tax consequences.     
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
11.4p per share (2009: 10.9p)         4.9 4.6
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          81
24 Disposal of business  
On 1 April 2010, the Group sold its Clear-Com business, which was previously included in the Videocom division. This is not  
a discontinued operation because it does not represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. 
Management committed to a plan to sell this business early in 2010 following a strategic decision to place greater focus on  
opportunities in the Group’s chosen core markets.    
The total consideration was £6.7 million, net of transaction expenses. There is a further estimated contingent consideration  
of £0.4 million in 2011 based on the actual turnover achieved in 2010.     
A summary of the gain on disposal is set out below.   
          2010 
Summary of gain on sale of disposed operation         £m
Consideration received, satisfied in cash          8.4
Transaction expenses          (1.7)
Net cash inflow before contingent consideration         6.7
Contingent consideration          0.4
Net cash inflow          7.1
Foreign exchange recycled to the Income Statement on disposal        1.0
Net assets disposed
 (1)
          (5.9)
Gain on sale of disposed operation          2.2
Taxation on gain on sale of disposed operation         2.0
Gain on sale of disposed operation, after tax         4.2
(1) 
Net assets disposed   
Property, plant and equipment          0.8
Intangible assets          1.1
Inventories          4.5
Trade and other receivables          3.6
Trade and other payables          (3.4)
Provisions          (0.7)
Net assets disposed          5.9
In March 2009, the Group sold the IFF Staging business which gave rise to a loss of £0.7 million.     82          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
25 Operating leases 
       Land and   Total 
        buildings Other 2010 2009
(1)
 
Gross leasing commitments       £m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year        0.7   0.1   0.8   1.6 
Expiring two to five years        7.8   0.9   8.7   9.9 
Expiring after five years        9.8   -  9.8   9.1 
          18.3   1.0   19.3   20.6 
(1)
  Leasing commitments at 31 December 2009 comprised £19.7 million of land and buildings and £0.9 million of other commitments. Included in the leasing 
commitments is an amount of £0.9 million which relates to the Clear-Com business.     
The Group leases a number of office, warehouse and factory facilities under operating leases. None of the leases include  
contingent rentals.     
During the year ended 31 December 2010, £5.7 million (2009: £6.0 million) of operating lease rental payments and  
£nil (2009: £0.2 million) of rental income from subleases were recognised in the Income Statement.
26 Employee benefits 
26a Share based payments     
Group employees participate in a number of employee incentive schemes including a sharesave plan, an unapproved share option plan, 
a long term incentive plan and a deferred bonus plan. The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS2 have not been applied to 
awards granted before 7 November 2002 in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS1 and IFRS2.   
Share option plans
The share option plans currently operated by the Group are:      
2002 Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan (SAYE)      
This is a share option plan. Employees can elect at the outset to save a fixed amount of up to £250 (or foreign currency equivalent) per 
month into the Sharesave Scheme. The vesting period is either three, five or seven years. At the vesting date, the employees have the 
option to use the savings to purchase shares at a discount, of no more than 20%, to the share price (determined at the date of grant). 
The option expires six months after vesting.   
2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan (USOP)      
The USOP is a share option plan. Options are granted with a vesting period of three years. There is an Earnings per Share (“EPS”) 
performance condition attached to the awards. If this performance condition is met, exercise is possible after third anniversary but before 
the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
For awards granted prior to 2005, 100% of awards vest if the EPS growth over three years increases by more than cumulative RPI + 
9.30%. If the EPS growth is lower than this, but more than cumulative RPI + 3.03%, then between 33.3% and 100% of the awards will 
vest. If the EPS growth is less than cumulative RPI + 3.03%, then no awards will vest.
For awards granted in 2005, 100% of the awards vest if the EPS growth over three years increases by more than cumulative RPI + 12%. 
If the EPS growth is lower than this, but more than cumulative RPI + 6%, then between 33% and 100% of the awards will vest. If the 
EPS growth is less than cumulative RPI + 6%, no awards will vest. This performance condition has been achieved with awards vesting  
in full.
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          83
26a Share based payments continued     
For awards granted in 2008, the performance condition was revised to RPI + 9% for minimum vesting and RPI + 30% for full vesting.  
A sliding scale operates for performance between the lower and upper threshold. If EPS growth is less than cumulative RPI + 9%,  
no award will vest. This performance condition has not been achieved and awards have lapsed.
No awards under the USOP have been granted since 2008.
Awards are settled with shares.      
Share award plans      
2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (2005 LTIP)      
The 2005 LTIP is also subject to performance conditions. For awards under the 2005 LTIP made before 2010, this was based on  
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the Company over a three year period compared to the TSR of comparator companies over the same 
period. At the end of the performance period, the TSR of the Company and the comparator companies shall be calculated and ranked 
from highest to lowest. All awards will vest if the Company’s TSR growth over the performance period is in or above the 20th percentile 
measured against the comparator group. If the Company’s TSR performance lies between the 50th and 20th percentile, between 35% 
and 100% of the awards vest. Below the 50th percentile, no awards vest.
For awards made under the 2005 LTIP in 2010 and onwards, 50% of an award will continue to be measured based upon TSR as 
described above. However, 50% of an award is subject to growth in the Company’s Earnings per Share (EPS) excluding exceptional  
or extraordinary items. Each performance condition is entirely independent from the other performance condition.
For awards subject to the EPS performance condition made in 2010, if the percentage growth in the EPS of the Company, after 
adjustments for exceptional or extraordinary items, exceeds the percentage growth in RPI over the three year performance period by 
4% (Compound Average Growth Rate), 35% of that element of an award may vest. Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth in EPS 
over the performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 8% (Compound Average Growth Rate) or greater. There is pro rata straight line 
vesting between these two points. An award lapses if the lower point under both performance conditions is not achieved during the 
performance period.
Employees are entitled to dividends on the awarded shares that are paid over the performance period. These are paid either as cash or 
the equivalent number of shares at the vesting date. Awards are settled with shares.
2005 Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
Under the 2005 DBP , employees can exchange up to 100% of their annual cash bonus in a financial period for core shares of the same 
value. These awards will vest 3 years after the date of grant (or immediately if the employee leaves the company).
The employee may also receive matching shares at the end of the 3 year vesting period. The number of matching shares is dependent 
on the outcome of a market performance condition. These are exactly the same as described above for the 2005 LTIP . For awards made 
before 2010 that are solely subject to the TSR performance condition, the deferred core shares will be matched at the rate of:
• One share for every three shares at median performance; and 
• One share for every one share within the top 20% performance.
There is straight line vesting between these points. 
For awards made in 2010, 50% of the award is subject to TSR and vesting of matching shares as described above. 50% of the award  
is subject to EPS growth of the Company, after adjustments for exceptional or extraordinary items.
If this EPS growth:
• Is 4% (Compound Average Growth Rate), one matching share for every three core shares is awarded at the end of the performance period.
•  Is 8% or more (Compound Average Growth Rate), one matching share for every one core share is awarded at the end of the  
performance period.
      84          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
26a  Share based payments continued     
The amount recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with employees for the year ended  
31 December 2010 was £1.5 million (2009: £1.5 million), of this £1.0 million (2009: £1.4 million) related to equity settled share  
based payment transactions and £0.5 million (2009: £0.1 million) related to employers’ tax liability.
The outstanding employers’ tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for UK awards as at 31 December 2010 was £0.8 million  
(2009: £0.4 million) and for non-UK awards £0.4 million (2009: £0.4 million). 
Options outstanding under the 2002 Sharesave Plan and Unapproved Share Option Plan as at 31 December 2010, together with  
their exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
          Weighted 
         Weighted average 
         average remaining 
        Number exercise contractual 
Range of exercise prices        outstanding price (£) life
£1.30 - £1.40        1,189,335 1.33 2.40
£2.71 - £2.90        7,528 2.81 1.17
£2.91 - £3.00        89,087 3.00 4.32
£3.01 - £4.00        282,419 3.50 2.81
£4.01 - £4.50        4,611 4.11 1.00
£4.51 - £5.00        5,394 4.91 1.24
£5.01 - £5.50        151,972 5.14 6.93
Total        1,730,346 2.13 2.95
Options granted, exercised and lapsed during the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2010 under these share options plans were  
as follows:
        Weighted  Weighted 
         average  average 
        exercise   exercise 
       Sharesave price (£) USOP price (£)
Awards at 31 December 2008       351,527 3.84 719,773 4.07
Exercised during 2009       6,006 2.83 145,886 3.00
Lapsed during 2009       251,007 3.33 97,157 5.12
Granted during 2009       1,378,326 1.34 - 0.00
Awards at 31 December 2009       1,472,840 1.59 476,730 4.18
Exercised during 2010       57,608 1.77 141,884 3.36
Lapsed during 2010       149,363 2.35 86,071 5.13
Granted during 2010       215,702 3.49 - -
Awards at 31 December 2010       1,481,571 1.76 248,775 4.32
Awards exercisable at 31 December 2010       6,987 4.51 117,658 3.43
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £4.75 (2009: £3.85).  
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          85
26a  Share based payments continued     
   2002 UK and 2002 UK and 2005  
   International International Long Term 2005 
   Sharesave Sharesave Incentive Deferred 
Arrangement   Plan 3 Year Plan 5 Year Plan Bonus Plan
Nature of arrangement  Save as you Save as you Share award Share award 
      earn scheme earn scheme plan plan
Date of Grant  05 May 2010 05 May 2010 08 March 2010 08 March 2010
    
Number of Instruments granted  196,351 19,351 613,578 55,029 Core/  
        55,029 Matching
Exercise Price  £3.42/£3.63
 (1)
 £3.42/£3.63
 (1)
 n/a n/a
Share price at date of grant  £4.21 £4.21 £3.80 £3.80
Contractual Life (yrs)  3.5 5.5 4 4
Expected Option Life (yrs)  3.25 5.25 4 4
        Relative TSR 3 year service 
        performance against period, relative TSR 
     3 year service 5 year service comparator group, performance and EPS 
     period and period and EPS growth and 3  growth for matching 
Vesting conditions  savings requirement savings requirement year service period awards
Settlement  Shares Shares Shares Shares
Expected Volatility
 (2)
    41.0%  41.0%  48.2%  48.2%
Risk free interest rate    1.80%  2.70%  n/a  n/a
Expected Dividend Yield    5.00%  5.00%  n/a  n/a
Expected departures  
(per annum from grant date)    5%  5%  5%  0%
Expected outcome of  
non-market based related  
performance condition    n/a  n/a  100%  100%
Fair value per granted  
instrument determined  
at the grant date   £1.17/£1.09
 (1)
 £1.26/£1.20
 (1)
 £1.73 £3.80/£1.73
 (3)
Valuation Model   Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo
 (4)
  Monte Carlo
 (4)
(1)
  For the Sharesave 3 Year and 5 Year awards, the exercise price for awards made to US employees was different from those granted to European employees.  
The first figure represents options granted to European employees while the second figure relates to options granted to employees in the US.  
(2)
  The expected volatility is based on historical volatility determined by the analysis of daily share prices over a period commensurate with the expected lifetime of 
the award and ending on the date of grant of the award. Due to significant fluctuations in Vitec’s share price during the year a uniform rate has been used for all 
the SAYE options as a reasonable estimate of volatility going-forward. 
(3)
 Represents fair value for basic and matched award respectively.
(4)
  For the LTIP 2005 and DBP matched award, a Monte-Carlo simulation has been used. Under this valuation method, the share price for Vitec is projected at the 
end of the performance period as is the Total Shareholder Return for Vitec and the companies in the comparator group. Based on these projections, the number 
of awards that will vest is determined. Thousands of simulations are run and the fair value of the award is calculated as the product of the vesting probability and 
the share price at the date of grant.           86          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
26b Post-employment obligations     
Defined benefit plans – pensions and other post-retirement plan disclosures
The Group has defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Italy, Germany and Japan. The UK and Italian pension plans are significant,  
and are individually disclosed below after the Group disclosures. 
         2010 2009 
Amounts recognised on the Group balance sheet        £m £m
Plan assets  
Equities         30.6 26.8
Bonds         9.9 9.5
Other         4.1 4.7
Total fair value of plan assets         44.6 41.0
Present value of defined benefit obligation         (51.6) (52.0)
Net (deficit) recognised in the Group balance sheet        (7.0) (11.0)
         2010 2009 
Analysis of net recognised deficit         £m £m
UK pension fund         (2.3) (6.1)
Total funded plans         (2.3) (6.1)
Italian pension scheme         (2.3) (2.4)
Other unfunded plans         (2.4) (2.5)
Total unfunded plans         (4.7) (4.9)
Liability recognised on the Group balance sheet        (7.0) (11.0)
Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Amounts in net operating costs 
Current service cost – defined benefit schemes        1.6 2.5
Past service gain – defined benefit schemes         (0.1) (0.1)
Settlement gain – defined benefit schemes         (0.1) -
Curtailment gain – defined benefit schemes         (3.0) -
Employers’ pension costs – defined contribution schemes       1.2 1.1
           (0.4) 3.5
Amounts in net financial expense          
Expected return on plan assets         (2.8) (2.2)
Interest cost         2.8 2.2
           - -
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement        (0.4) 3.5
Movements since 2006 on defined benefit schemes     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Plan assets      44.6 41.0 34.8 44.4 42.5
Defined benefit obligation      (51.6) (52.0) (40.7) (47.2) (47.5)
Total deficit      (7.0) (11.0) (5.9) (2.8) (5.0)
Net actuarial gain/(loss)      0.2 (6.1) (1.8) 2.5 2.2
Experience gain/(loss)      - - (0.1) (0.4) -
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          87
26b Post-employment obligations continued 
UK pension scheme
At the end of 2003 the Group closed both of its UK defined benefit schemes to new members. Since 2004 a Group personal pension 
plan has been made available for new employees with Standard Life. In November 2005 the defined benefit schemes were merged. 
The Scheme was then closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Group are now offered 
membership of a money purchase arrangement separate to the UK defined benefit scheme. Total scheme members were 645 (2009: 645).
The nature of the scheme is a funded final salary scheme, closed to new entrants and closed to future accrual.
1) Assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligation
       31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 
       % pa % pa % pa % pa
Price inflation (RPI)       3.5 3.6 2.8 3.3
Price inflation (CPI)       2.8 n/a n/a n/a
Expected rate of salary increases
 (1)
       n/a 5.1 4.3 5.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
 (2) 
   
  - discretionary (pre - 6 April 1997 accrual in excess of GMP)     3.4 3.6 2.8 3.3
  - guaranteed LPI 5% (6 April 1997 - 30 June 2008)      3.4 3.6 2.8 3.3
  - guaranteed LPI 2.5% (accrual from 1 July 2008)      2.5 2.5 2.5 n/a
Rate of increase for deferred pensions
 (3)
       2.8 3.6 2.8 3.3
Discount rate       5.5 5.7 6.3 5.8
(1)
 These exclude an age-related allowance for promotional and merit awards.
(2)
 In addition, we have made allowance for the special pension increase guarantees applying to certain executive members of the Scheme.
(3)
 Increases of 2.5% per annum for post – 5 April 2009 accrual.
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date are based on standard actuarial 
mortality tables and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The assumptions are equivalent to expected longevity  
at age 65 for members in normal health approximately as follows: 
- Pensioners currently aged 65: ranging from 21.7 to 24.3 years 
- Non-pensioners currently aged 45: ranging from 23.6 years to 26.2 years.
The rates of return quoted are based on actual market yields for bonds. The assumed rates of return on other asset classes where 
market rates of return are not readily available – including, most importantly, equities – are based on the central 10 year median return 
assumptions. We have assumed for this purpose that returns on overseas equities will the same as on UK equities.
2) Scheme assets and expected rate of return
A summary of the assets of the scheme, classified into the major asset classes, is shown below, together with the expected return  
on each major asset class.
    Expected  Expected  Expected  Expected 
    long term  long term  long term  long term 
    Fair rate of Fair rate of Fair rate of Fair rate of 
   value at return at value at return at value at return at value at return at 
   31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2007 
   £m % pa £m % pa £m % pa £m % pa
Equities   30.6 8.0 26.8 8.0 21.9 8.2 29.5 8.0
Bonds   9.9 4.5 9.5 4.7 8.8 4.4 11.3 4.8
Property   1.9 7.4 1.3 7.7 1.5 6.9 1.9 6.7
Cash/NCA   1.5 4.0 2.8 4.4 2.0 3.8 1.0 5.2
Insurance policies   0.7 5.5 0.6 5.7 0.6 6.3 0.7 5.8
Total value of assets   44.6  41.0  34.8  44.4 
Note: the asset values shown are, where relevant, estimated bid values of market securities. 88          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
26b Post-employment obligations continued
3) Reconciliation of funded status at 31 December
       2010 2009 2008 2007 
       £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation       (46.9) (47.1) (35.2) (43.2)
Assets at fair value        44.6 41.0 34.8 44.4
Funded status       (2.3) (6.1) (0.4) 1.2
Unrecognised past service cost       - - - -
Unrecognised net gain/(loss)       - - - -
Effect of asset ceiling       - - - -
Defined benefit (liability)/asset       (2.3) (6.1) (0.4) 1.2
4) Pension expense for year to 31 December
i) Components of pension expense     
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Group service cost         0.9 1.0
Interest cost         2.6 2.1
Expected return on assets         (2.8) (2.2)
Past service costs         (0.1) (0.1)
Curtailments         (3.0) -
Settlements         (0.1) -
Total pension (income)/expense         (2.5) 0.8
ii) Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
      2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
      £m  £m £m £m £m
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in SOCIE during the period    0.2 (5.8) (1.8) 2.1 2.0
Cumulative actuarial gain/(loss) recognised at beginning of period    (3.0) 2.8 4.6 2.5 0.5
Cumulative actuarial gain/(loss) recognised at end of period    (2.8) (3.0) 2.8 4.6 2.5
The cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) shown reflect periods since 1 January 2006 only.
The decrease in UK liabilities due to changes in assumptions includes a benefit of £1.9 million arising from the change from the  
Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price Index as the measure of price inflation for the purposes of determining the revaluation of 
deferred benefits for leavers.
5) Return on assets for year to 31 December
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Expected return on assets         2.8 2.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) on assets          1.8 4.4
Actual return on assets          4.6 6.6
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          89
26b Post-employment obligations continued 
6) Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation (DBO) for the year to 31 December
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Present value of DBO at start of year         47.1 35.2
Group service cost         0.9 1.0
Interest cost         2.6 2.1
Employee contributions         0.2 0.4
Actuarial (gain)/loss on change of assumptions        (1.4)  10.2
Experience (gain)/loss         3.0 -
Actual benefit payments and expenses          (2.3) (1.7)
Past service costs         (0.1) (0.1)
Curtailments         (3.0) -
Settlements         (0.1) -
Present value of DBO at end of year         46.9 47.1
7) Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year to 31 December
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Fair value of assets at start of year         41.0 34.8
Expected return on assets          2.8 2.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan assets         1.8 4.4
Group contributions         1.1 0.9
Employee contributions         0.2 0.4
Actual benefit payments         (1.8) (1.4)
Administration expenses paid         (0.5) (0.3)
Curtailments         - -
Settlements         - -
Fair value of assets at end of year         44.6 41.0
8) Reconciliation of change in funded status for the year to 31 December
         2010 2009 
         £m  £m
Defined benefit asset/(liability) at start of year         (6.1) (0.4)
Total pension (expense)/income         2.5 (0.8)
Employer contributions actually paid         1.1 0.9
Benefits paid directly by Group         - -
Gain/(loss) recognised in SOCIE         0.2 (5.8)
Gain/(loss) due to exchange rate movements        - -
Defined benefit asset/(liability) at end of year        (2.3) (6.1) 90          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
26b Post-employment obligations continued
9) Expected 2011 contributions 
As at the date of approval of the Balance Sheet, the Company had not reached agreement with the Vitec Group Pension Scheme 
Trustee on the 5th April 2010 actuarial valuation and the associated employer contribution to the Scheme.
Italian pension provision
In accordance with Italian law, Italian employees are entitled to a lump sum payment (“TFR”) from their employers when they resign  
or retire. 
The TFR is accrued over the years in which the employee is in service. Each year, the accrued amount is increased by 6.91% of  
the employee’s gross annual salary. At the end of each year, the employee’s TFR’s are revalued by 1.5% plus 75% of the national 
increase in the consumer price index (as published by the Italian National Statistical Institute “ISTAT”).
When an employee leaves the company, he is entitled to his total TFR. The company is then not liable for any further pension obligations  
in respect of that employee. After eight years of service, an employee can ask his employer to advance up to 70% of his total TFR.  
If so, the employee will receive the remaining balance of the TFR when the employee leaves the company.
Prior to 1 January 2007, Italian companies were not required to fund employee’s TFR’s until they left the company. Therefore most  
Italian companies (including the Group’s Italian companies) accounted for employee’s TFR’s as an unfunded liability.
From 1 January 2007, Italian companies were required to pay monthly payments relating to employees’ TFR’s either into the  
National Social Security Pension Fund (Fondo Tesoreria INPS) or into private pension funds, depending on the choice of the employee.  
The relevant pension fund then pays to the employee the portion of their TFR that relates to service after 1 January 2007. Italian 
companies are still required to pay employees the portion of their TFR that relates to service prior to 1 January 2007. 
The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of IASB (International Accounting Standard Board) has 
established that, in accordance with IAS 19, TFR’s must be accounted for as defined benefit pension schemes and the present  
value of the TFR’s must be computed using actuarial assumptions.
Assumptions used to determine defined benefit obligation:
         2010 2009
Inflation rate         2% 2%
Expected rate of salary increases         0% 0%
Expected salary increase on promotion         0% 0%
Discount rate         3.85% 4.50%
         2010 2009 
Pension expense for year to 31 December        £m £m
Service cost         0.8 1.0
Interest cost         0.1 0.1
Total         0.9 1.1
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          91
26b Post-employment obligations continued
         2010  2009 
Actuarial loss in SOCIE         £m £m
Recognised in period         0.1 0.1
         2010  2009  
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation (DBO) for the year to 31 December    £m £m
Brought forward         (2.4) (3.4)
Service cost         (0.8) (1.0)
Interest cost         (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial loss         (0.1) (0.1)
Contributions paid         1.0 1.9
Foreign exchange gain         0.1 0.3
Carried forward         (2.3) (2.4)
27 Post balance sheet event           
There are no post balance sheet events to report.
28 Accounting estimates and judgements          
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies 
and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.       
Key sources of estimation uncertainty          
Note 12 contains information about the assumptions and their risk factors relating to goodwill impairment. In Note 18 detailed analysis  
is given of the foreign exchange exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements. 
Provisions for trade receivables impairment          
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the impairment provisions for trade receivables.  
These are described in more detail in Note 2.       
Provisions for inventory obsolescence          
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the provisions for inventory obsolescence. 
These are described in more detail in Note 2. 
Warranty provisions          
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the provisions for warranty.  
These are described in more detail in Note 22. 
Share based payments          
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the provisions for share based payments.  
These are described in more detail in Note 26a.
Post-employment obligations
A number of accounting estimates and judgements are incorporated within the provisions for post-employment obligations. 
These are described in more detail in Note 26b.         
Identity of related parties 
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 14 on page 70),  
with its key management personnel and directors of subsidiary entities. Key management personnel are deemed to be the  
directors (including the non-executive directors) and the members of the Operations Executive as set out on page 41. 92          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
29 Related Party Transactions
Transactions with directors of subsidiaries
Abramo Manfrotto is a director of Vitecgroup Italia Spa and is also Managing Director of Alu Spa (disposed of by the Group in December 
2003). Sales of Gruppo Manfrotto products and services to Alu in 2010 totalled e522,834, £448,631 (2009: e250,038, £223,328).  
At 31 December 2010, there was e79,282, £68,030 outstanding, payable by Alu Spa (2009: e79,629, £71,218). Purchases of Alu 
products and services by Gruppo Manfrotto companies in 2010 totalled e25,084, £21,524 (2009: e14,313, £12,801).  
At 31 December 2010, there was e6,006, £5,154 outstanding and payable to Alu Spa (2009: e3,621, £3,239).
Warren Parece, who was Operations Manager of the IMT business unit during 2010, is the owner of WJP LLC, the landlord at  
15 Thornton Avenue, Haverhill, Massachusetts from which Microwave Service Corporation operates. The lease was terminated in 2010.  
In 2010, up to the point of termination, the total value of the transaction was $52,500, £33,860 (2009: $90,000, £57,630).  
At 31 December 2010, there were no amounts outstanding and payable to WJP LLC (2009: £nil).
Craig Schiller is General Manager of Bexel Broadcast Services and also inventor of a computer-based process named Sharp Shot which 
was provided to the broadcast market through Bexel. Craig Schiller was, in turn, compensated by Bexel for the provision. Payments to 
Craig Schiller in 2010 totalled $3,000, £1,935 (2009: £nil). This agreement was terminated in 2010. 
Jeffrey Winemiller was Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development of the IMT business unit. He is also joint 80% owner 
of PSEN LLC and PMNI LLC, companies to which IMT companies provide products and services. Sales of products and services to 
PSEN LLC and PMNI LLC in 2010 totalled $9,600, £6,192 (2009: $21,525, £13,783). At 31 December 2010, there was $800, £516 
outstanding and payable by PSEN LLC (2009: $800, £512).
Jürgen Sommer is Director of Business Development of Camera Dynamics GmbH and brother of the owner of Sommer Kommunikation, 
a company which provides marketing material and services to Camera Dynamics GmbH. Sales of products and services to Camera 
Dynamics GmbH in 2010 totalled e142,000, £121,847 (2009: e205,000, £183,347). At 31 December 2010, there were no amounts 
outstanding (2009: £nil).
Stefano Finessi is EMEA Sales Director of Camera Dynamics GmbH and son and nephew-in-law of Alberto and Ermanno Fumagalli who 
rent office space in Milan to a Camera Dynamics operation. Rent paid to Alberto and Ermanno Fumagalli in 2010 totalled e5,400, £4,634 
(2009: e5,400, £4,830). At 31 December 2010, there were no amounts outstanding (2009: £nil).
Greg Cooney is Managing Director of Manfrotto Distribution UK Ltd. Mr Cooney’s son, Philip, provides office cleaning and occasional 
administration services to Manfrotto Distribution UK. During 2010, £5,560 was paid to Philip Cooney in respect of these services  
(2009: £5,270). At 31 December 2010, there was £nil outstanding and payable (2009: £nil).
Transactions with key management personnel
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group Chief Executive, Stephen Bird, and the Group Finance Director, Richard Cotton,  
were directors of the Company and also members of the Operations Executive. However, for the purposes of the following paragraphs  
and to avoid double counting, their interests and remuneration have been excluded from the information relating to the  
Operations Executive.
Executive directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.2% (2009: 0.101 %) of the shares of the Company.
Non-executive directors control 0.142% (2009: 0.143%). Members of the Operations Executive control 0.275% (2009: 0.25%)  
of the shares of the Company.
The remuneration of the directors is set out on pages 28 to 35. The remuneration of the members of the Operations Executive  
in 2010 was: salaries £966,170 (2009: £905,404); performance-related bonuses £680,804 (2009: £343,577); and short term employee 
benefits (company car and medical insurance) £63,650 (2009: £60,660).
In addition to their salaries, the aggregate of which is set out above, the Group also contributes to a number of pension arrangements, 
each one specific to the country in which the individual member of the Operations Executive is based. Members of the Operations 
Executive and the executive directors are eligible to participate in the Group’s executive bonus scheme and its share incentive 
arrangements. The cost to the Company in 2010 arising from share incentive awards was £686,000 (2009: £629,000).
Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          93
         2010 2009 
        Notes £m £m
Fixed assets    
Tangible assets        g  1.3   1.4 
Investments        h  293.2   319.3 
           294.5   320.7 
Current assets    
Debtors        i  1.9   3.0 
Cash at bank and in hand          2.9   5.7 
           4.8   8.7 
Creditors - due within one year        j (8.2) (11.9)
Net current liabilities          (3.4) (3.2)
Total assets less current liabilities          291.1   317.5 
Creditors - due after more than one year        j  (95.8) (117.1)
Net assets          195.3   200.4 
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital        k  8.6   8.6 
Share premium account        l  9.6   9.0 
Capital redemption reserve        l  1.6   1.6 
Revaluation reserve        l  0.9   0.9 
Merger and other reserves        l  53.7   53.7 
Profit and loss account        l  120.9   126.6 
Shareholders’ funds - equity          195.3   200.4
Approved by the Board on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf.    
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
The Vitec Group plc 
Registered in England no. 227691
Company Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2010 94          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Profit for the financial year          2.3   11.2 
Dividends          (7.9) (7.8)
Retained profit for the year          (5.6)  3.4 
Equity settled transactions          1.0   0.7 
Reserve for own shares          (1.1) (0.6)
New share capital subscribed          0.6   0.9 
Net increase in shareholders’ funds          (5.1)  4.4 
Opening shareholders’ funds         200.4 196.0
Closing shareholders’ funds         195.3 200.4
Reconciliation of Movements  
in Shareholders’ Funds      
 For the year ended 31 December 2010       The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          95
a) Basis of presentation          
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting rules 
modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings.   
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is included in  
the Group consolidated accounts.           
b) Accounting policies            
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
financial statements.            
Fixed assets and depreciation          
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost or valuation of the relevant assets less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets 
by equal annual amounts over their expected useful economic lives. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other fixed assets are 
depreciated as follows:    
  Freehold buildings   2
1
/2% – 5% on cost or valuation      
  Short leasehold property  over the remaining period of the lease 
  Motor vehicles   25% – 33
1
/3% on cost 
  Equipment, fixtures and fittings 10% – 33
1
/3% on cost     
Fixed assets are stated at cost except that, as allowed under FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, on adoption of that Standard in the year 
ending 31 December 2000 when the book amounts of revalued land and buildings were retained. These book values are based on the 
previous revaluation on 31 March 1989 and have not been subsequently revalued.     
Foreign currencies            
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the monthly average rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet  
date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.      
Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.    
Post-retirement benefits          
The Company participates in a UK group pension scheme providing benefits based on both final pensionable salary and on  
contributions paid.            
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis 
and therefore, as required by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in the year.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.       
     
Notes to the Company Accounts 96          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
b) Accounting policies continued
Employee share schemes           
The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is recognised as an 
employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
For cash settled share based payment transactions the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense 
with a corresponding increase in liabilities. Where the expense of the option relates to an employee of another Group entity, this cost is 
recharged to that entity.            
There are further disclosures regarding employee share schemes in Note 2 and Note 26a of the Group’s Accounts.
Dividends in shares presented within shareholders’ funds 
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that date. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria 
are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.          
  
Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated individually at cost less, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value.    
         
Financial instruments
Financial instruments have been recognised in accordance with Group accounting policies. Derivative financial instruments have  
had no financial impact on these accounts due to equal and opposite internal instruments written with certain of the Company’s 
operating subsidiaries.            
Derivatives are recognised initially at cost, and subsequent to initial recognition at fair value. The fair value of forward and option 
exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives are de-recognised when they mature or are sold.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account unless the derivatives  
qualify for hedge accounting (see also Note 18 of the Consolidated Accounts).
Hedge of Monetary Assets and Liabilities 
Where a derivative is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the profit and loss account.
c) Employees          
         2010 2009 
Aggregate remuneration of all employees during the year       £m £m
Wages and salaries         2.2 2.2
Employers’ social security costs         0.2 0.2
Employers’ pension costs         0.2 0.2
           2.6 2.6
         2010 2009
Average number of employees during the year        16 16
The above tables include the Company’s two executive directors.   
The emoluments, share options, awards under incentive schemes and pension entitlements of the directors are disclosed in the 
Remuneration Report.  
Notes to the Company Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          97
d) Audit fees   
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was £0.1 million.
Further details of the Group audit fee can be in Note 6 of the Consolidated Accounts.
e) Dividends   
         2010 2009  
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:        £m £m
Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year     4.6  4.7 
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year        3.3  3.1 
Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year         7.9   7.8 
A final 2010 dividend of 11.4p per share has been recommended by the Board.   
f) Pensions
The Company is a member of a larger UK group wide pension scheme providing benefits based both on final pensionable pay and on 
contributions. Because the Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable 
basis, as permitted by FRS17 ‘Retirement benefits’, the scheme has been accounted for in these financial statements as if the scheme 
was a defined contribution scheme. At 31 December 2010, the UK scheme had a deficit of £2.3 million (2009: £6.1 million deficit).  
The Scheme closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. 
The contributions paid by the Company in the year amounted to £0.1 million (2009: £0.2 million). The expected Company contributions 
in 2011 are £0.2 million.   
Further details of the UK pension scheme are disclosed on pages 86 to 91. 
g) Tangible fixed assets            
          Equipment, 
         Land and fixtures and 
        Total buildings fittings 
        £m £m £m
Cost or valuation    
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010        3.2   3.0   0.2 
Depreciation   
At 1 January 2010          1.8   1.6   0.2 
Charge for the year         0.1   0.1   - 
At 31 December 2010         1.9   1.7   0.2 
Net book value   
At 1 January 2010          1.4   1.4   - 
At 31 December 2010         1.3   1.3   - 
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Net book value of land and buildings at cost or valuation comprise the following  
Carried at valuation (open market basis - 31 March 1989)       1.3 1.4 
Freehold         1.3 1.4 
The land and buildings shown above at a re-valued net book value of £1.3 million would have been stated under historical cost at  
£0.7 million and a net book value of £0.1 million.   98          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
g) Tangible fixed assets continued 
The revalued amount of the land and buildings has been retained as allowed for by the transitional provisions set out in FRS 15 ‘Tangible 
Fixed Assets’.
The Company had the following annual commitments under operating leases:  
         Land and buildings
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Expiring in two to five years         0.1 0.1
h) Fixed asset investments           
         Investment  
         in other  
        Total shares Loans 
Investments at cost or written down value       £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2010         325.0   212.4   112.6 
Reduction in year         (5.5)  (5.5)  - 
Disposals         (2.0)  (2.0) -
Loan reductions         (24.3)  -  (24.3)
At 31 December 2010         293.2   204.9   88.3 
Provision   
At 1 January 2010          5.7   5.7   - 
Decrease in year         (3.7)  (3.7) -
Disposal in year         (2.0)  (2.0)  - 
At 31 December 2010         -   -   - 
Net Book Value   
At 1 January 2010         319.3   206.7   112.6 
At 31 December 2010         293.2   204.9   88.3
i) Debtors           
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed by subsidiaries          0.9   0.7 
Other debtors          0.4   0.7 
Derivative financial instruments - forward and option exchange contracts       0.1   1.4 
Deferred tax asset          0.2   - 
Prepayments and accrued income          0.3   0.2 
           1.9   3.0
The deferred tax asset arose on recognition of temporary differences in respect of losses and fixed assets.
Notes to the Company Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          99
j) Creditors           
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Bank overdraft (unsecured)          -   1.6 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries          5.1   7.2 
Derivative financial instruments - forward and option exchange contracts       0.1   1.4 
Other creditors          0.4   0.1 
Accruals and deferred income          2.6   1.6 
           8.2   11.9 
Amounts falling due after more than one year  
Bank loans (unsecured)          34.8   52.7 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries          61.0   64.4 
           95.8   117.1 
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2010 (2009: £nil).
k) Share capital           
As agreed by the shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company’s Articles of Association were amended with effect 
from 17 May 2010 to remove the requirement for the Company to have an authorised share capital, the concept of which was abolished 
under the Companies Act 2006.     
         Number of Nominal 
         shares  value £m
Issued and fully paid     
At 1 January 2010         42,949,175 8.6
Exercise of share options         203,159 -
At 31 December 2010         43,152,334 8.6
i) Share based payments     
Details of the share based payments can be found on pages 82 to 85.
ii) Share option schemes     
Details of the share option schemes can be found on pages 82 to 85.
l) Reserves      
     Share Capital    Profit 
     premium redemption Revaluation Merger Other and loss 
     account reserve reserve  reserve reserves account 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010      9.0   1.6   0.9   9.7   44.0   126.6 
Dividends paid      -   -   -   -   -  (7.9)
Own shares (Employee benefit trust) purchased     -   -   -   -   -  (1.1)
Own shares (Employee benefit trust) - transferred from Treasury    -   -   -   -   -  (0.7)
Own shares (Treasury) - transferred to the Vitec employee benefit trust    -   -   -   -   -   0.7 
Equity settled transactions      -   -   -   -   -   1.0 
Premium on new shares issued      0.6   -   -   -   -   - 
Profit for the year      -   -   -   -   -   2.3 
At 31 December 2010      9.6   1.6   0.9   9.7   44.0   120.9
Other reserves represents the capitalisation of the share premium account, £22.7 million in 1989 and £37.3 million in 1995,  
less £16.0 million of share repurchases in 1995. 100          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
m) Financial instruments           
a) Financial liabilities
i) Analysis of borrowings    
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Bank overdrafts          -  1.6
Bank loans           34.8 52.7
Gross financial liabilities          34.8 54.3
ii) Maturity profile of liabilities    
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Within one year          -  1.6
More than one years, but not more than five years         34.8 52.7
            34.8 54.3 
The total amount of bank loans and overdrafts any part of which falls due after 5 years is £nil (2009: £nil).
The Company had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:    
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Expiring in less than one year    
  - uncommitted facilities         15.3  15.0 
More than one year but not more than five years    
  - committed facilities          90.2   72.3 
Total          105.5   87.3
On 8 August 2008 the Company signed a 5 year £125 million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate of five 
UK and European banks.
iii) Interest rate profile   
          Floating rate  
          borrowings 
Currency          £m
Yen           2.4 
US$           25.6 
Euro           6.8 
Sterling           - 
At 31 December 2010           34.8 
Yen           2.3 
US$           30.4 
Euro           11.6 
Sterling           10.0 
At 31 December 2009           54.3
The floating rate borrowings comprise bank loans bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR.   
Notes to the Company Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          101
m) Financial instruments continued  
b) Financial assets     
         Floating rate  Floating rate  
         2010 2009 
Currency         £m £m
Sterling          2.7  5.4
Euro          0.2  0.3
            2.9  5.7
The floating rate financial assets comprise bank deposits bearing interest at rates based on local money market rates.  
Sterling, US$ and Euro balances within the UK can be offset as a result of the Group’s Balance Offset Agreement with  
HSBC Bank plc.
c) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table below shows the fair values of financial assets and liabilities. Carrying values are not significantly different to the fair values. 
   
         Fair value  Fair value 
         2010 2009 
         £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand          2.9   5.7 
Bank overdraft          -  (1.6)
Floating rate borrowings          -  (52.7)
Forward exchange contracts - Assets          0.1   1.2 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities          (0.1) (1.2)
Option exchange contracts - Assets           -   0.2 
Option exchange contracts - Liabilities          -  (0.2)
            2.9  (48.6)
The Company has equal and opposite internal foreign exchange contracts matching the external foreign exchange contracts the 
Company has taken out with financial institutions.    
Estimation of fair values    
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected  
in the table.    
Derivatives    
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market by calculating the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate. 
Options exchange contracts are marked to market by obtaining quotes from banks of their market value as at 31 December.   102          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
m) Financial instruments continued  
i) Maturity profile of derivatives    
          2010 
          Within one  
          year 
          £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets           0.9 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities          (1.0)
            (0.1) 
          2009 
          £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets           1.5 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities          (0.3)
Option exchange contracts - Assets           0.2 
             1.4 
The Group’s foreign exchange hedging policy is set out in the Financial Review and Note 18 of the Consolidated Accounts. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings    
All interest bearing loans and borrowings are at floating rates. Therefore, the fair value of these loans and borrowings is their carrying value.
n)  Related party transactions
The Company has a related party relationship with its directors and key management personnel as disclosed in the Remuneration 
Report and Note 29 of the Consolidated Accounts.      
      
There are no other related party transactions to disclose.
o) Post Balance Sheet Events
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board on 2 March 2011. There were no events after the balance sheet date 
that require disclosure.
Notes to the Company Accounts continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          103
Five Year Financial Summary
 Year ended 31 December 2010
      2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue      309.6  315.1  337.7  273.8  222.3 
Operating profit before significant items      27.7  24.5  38.4  32.6  25.2 
Net interest on bank borrowings      (1.2) (1.6) (3.1) (2.6) (1.4)
Other financial income/(expense)      0.2  (0.2) 0.1  0.3  0.3 
Profit before tax and significant items      26.7  22.7  35.4  30.3  24.1 
Cash generated from operating activities      34.6  42.8  44.3  33.8  28.7 
Net interest paid      (1.2) (2.1) (3.6) (3.0) (1.5)
Tax paid      (0.9) (4.3) (6.7) (9.5) (5.5)
Operating cashflow      32.5  36.4  34.0  21.3  21.7 
Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill  (14.5) (13.7) (15.0) (16.6) (11.2)
Free cash flow
 (1)
      18.0  22.7  19.0  4.7  10.5 
Capital employed     
Intangible fixed assets      51.8  58.2  71.6  55.5  34.1 
Tangible fixed assets      53.4  54.6  63.6  45.6  35.1 
Investment in equity-accounted investment       -   -  -  1.3   0.7 
Other net assets      27.0  21.9  34.9  21.8  21.8 
        132.2  134.7  170.1  124.2  91.7 
Financed by     
Shareholders’ funds - equity      124.3  111.2  133.4  97.3  76.8 
Net debt      28.1  40.6  53.0  38.4  18.9 
Deferred tax      (20.2) (17.1) (16.3) (11.5) (4.0)
        132.2  134.7  170.1  124.2  91.7 
Statistics     
Operating profit (%) before significant items      8.9 7.8 11.4 11.9 11.3
Effective tax rate (%) before significant items     33.0 31.7 33.9 37.0 40.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share (p)
(2)
      41.9 36.5 55.9 46.0 35.3
Basic earnings per share (p)      42.8 7.5 48.0 44.1 32.6
Dividends per share (p)      19.0 18.3 18.3 17.8 16.5
Year-end mid-market share price (p)      585.0 389.0 235.5 585.0 528.5
(1)
  Free cash flow is the cash generated from operations less interest, tax and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible  
assets excluding goodwill.
(2)
 Differences between Adjusted basic and Basic earnings per share arise from significant items in the years in question.      104          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar
Shareholder enquiries
For enquiries about your shareholding, such as dividends 
or lost share certificate(s), please contact the Company’s 
registrars: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham 
Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Telephone 0871 664 0300 
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras. Lines are 
open from 8.30am-5.30pm Monday to Friday) or if calling from 
overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3399.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company, in conjunction with Capita Registrars, offers 
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables shareholders to 
reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in the Company. 
For shareholders to apply the Final Dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 to the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, 
application forms must be received by the Registrars by no 
later than 26 April 2011. Details on the Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan can be obtained from Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras. Lines are 
open from 8.30am-5.30pm Monday to Friday) or if calling from 
overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3399. Alternatively you can email them 
at shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Online services and electronic voting
The Company has arranged with Capita Registrars to use its 
online services. By logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com and 
selecting Portal (Shareholders) you can make a transaction or 
dividend payment enquiry, add or change a dividend mandate  
or change your registered address.
The Company will again be making use of Capita Registrars’ 
electronic voting facility. By logging on to www.capitashareportal.
com and selecting The Vitec Group plc you will find details of 
the 2011 Annual General Meeting, including the venue and 
text of resolutions. Shareholders have the facility to vote for, 
against or withhold and can split or restrict votes, appoint the 
Chairman of the meeting or a third party as their proxy and 
include any instruction text. Shareholders who hold their shares 
through CREST may use the CREST voting facility as provided 
by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited. To use the above facilities, 
shareholders will need to input a unique User ID that can be 
applied for on your first visit to the site. To be allocated a User ID 
you will need your Investor Code, which can be found on your 
dividend stationery and share certificates. User IDs previously 
issued will still be valid.
Should you experience any difficulties using these facilities, 
please contact the Capita Registrars helpline on the numbers 
given above.
International dividend payment service
Overseas shareholders may wish to consider electing to receive 
their dividends in a local currency instead of in Sterling. Details 
of this facility can be obtained from Capita Registrars either 
by calling 0871 664 0300 (if calling from overseas +44 (0)20 
8639 3399), visiting www.capitaregistrars.com/international/ or 
writing to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Any election to receive dividends in 
local currency in respect of the Final Dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2010 payable on 20 May 2011 must be received 
by Capita Registrars no later than the record date for the final 
dividend, 26 April 2011.
Share price information
The middle market price of a share of The Vitec Group plc on  
31 December 2010, the last dealing day of 2010, was 585p. 
During the year, the share price fluctuated between 375p and 
590p. The Company’s share price is available from the Group’s 
website www.vitecgroup.com, with a 15-minute delay, and from 
the Financial Times website www.ft.com, with a similar delay. 
Up-to-date market information and the Company’s share price  
is also available from the Cityline service operated by the 
Financial Times by telephoning 09058 171 690. 
The Company sends to its shareholders each year an Annual 
Report and copies of this and of public announcements and 
financial results are published on the Company’s website  
www.vitecgroup.com.
Financial calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2010
  Number %  Number % 
Shares held of holders of holders of shares of shares
Up to 1,000 546 50.42 209,709 0.49
1,001 to 5,000 313 28.90 733,023 1.70
5,001 to 10,000 66 6.09 500,426 1.16
10,001 to 50,000 80 7.39 1,732,491 4.01
50,001 to 100,000 20 1.85 1,537,316 3.56
100,001 and over 58 5.35 38,439,369 89.08
 1,083 100.00 43,152,334 100.00
Institutions 
and companies 367 33.89 40,751,180 5.56
Individuals including  
directors and  
their families 716 66.11 2,401,154 94.44
 1,083 100.00 43,152,334 100.00
Ex-dividend date for 2010 final dividend 20 April 2011
Record date for 2010 final dividend 26 April 2011
Annual General Meeting 19 May 2011
Interim management statement 19 May 2011
2010 final dividend payment date 20 May 2011
Announcement of 2011 half year results 16 August 2011
Proposed 2011 interim dividend payment date October 2011
Interim management statement November 2011 Directors’ Report
 Highlights 01 
 Chairman’s Statement 02 
 Group Chief Executive’s Review 04 
 Financial Review 12 
 Imaging & Staging Division 16
 Videocom Division 18 
 Services Division 20
  Key Performance Indicators 22  
and Other Measures 
 Board of Directors 24 
 
Remuneration Report  28 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  36
Corporate Governance  40 
Independent Auditors’ Report 48 
 
Consolidated Accounts 2010
 Consolidated Income Statement 49
  Consolidated Statement  50  
of Comprehensive Income 
 Consolidated Balance Sheet 51
  Consolidated Statement  52  
of Changes in Equity
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  53  
 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts  54  
Company Accounts 2010
 Company Balance Sheet 93 
  Reconciliation of Movements 94  
in Shareholders’ Funds 
 Notes to the Company Accounts 95  
 Five Year Financial Summary 103
  Shareholder Information and 104 
Financial Calendar
Vitec is an international group 
principally serving customers  
in the broadcast, photographic 
and military, aerospace and 
government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well 
known premium brands on 
which its customers worldwide 
rely. Vitec is organised in three 
Divisions: Imaging & Staging, 
Videocom and Services.
Imaging & Staging designs, 
manufactures and distributes 
equipment and accessories  
for professionals and keen 
amateurs in photography,  
video and events. 
Videocom designs and 
distributes systems and 
products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, film and 
video production and MAG.
Services provides equipment 
rental, workflow design and 
technical support for camera, 
video, audio, fibre optic and 
wireless technology used by 
TV production teams and  
film crews. 
 
More information can be  
found at our website:  
www.vitecgroup.com
The Vitec Group plc
Designed by Design Motive
Printed and bound in the UK
by Dayfold Print Ltd
It is important that our Annual Report is produced 
in an environmentally responsible manner. 
This Annual Report was printed using vegetable 
based inks. The materials used have been  
approved by The Forest Stewardship Council
®
 
(FSC). Dayfold Ltd is an FSC chain of custody 
certified company. 
When you have finished with this report please 
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Vitec Group plc
One Wheatfield Way
Kingston upon Thames, Surrey  
KT1 2TU United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8939 4650
F +44 (0)20 8939 4680
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England no. 227691
