 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
The Vitec Group plc 
Annual Report
& Accounts
2014 Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Inside this report
Corporate 
Governance
38 Board of Directors 
40  Chairman’s Report
52  Audit Committee Report
Remuneration  
Report
56  Remuneration Committee Chairman    
 Statement
58  Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
63  Annual Report on Remuneration 
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
76 Independent Auditor’s Report 
Directors’ Report
74 Directors’ Report 
Corporate 
Responsibility
28  Continuing Progress with Corporate    
 Responsibility
29 Business Ethics 
30  Environment 
32 Employees 
36 Community & Charitable Donations 
Financial Statements
79  Table of Contents
80  Primary Statements 
85  Section 1 - Basis of Preparation 
87 Section 2 - Results for the Year 
95 Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities 
108  Section 4 - Capital Structure
115  Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes 
124 Company Financial Statements 
131 Five Year Financial Summary 
132  Shareholder Information and  
 Financial Calendar 
Strategic Report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s Statement 
04  Vitec Group Overview
06  What We Do
08  Group Chief Executive’s Review 
10  Our Business Model 
12  Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
13  Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Update: Broadcast 
16 Market Update: Photographic 
18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
20  Financial Review
24  Broadcast Division 
26  Photographic Division 
Where 
the story 
comes to 
life
The Vitec Group plc
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Strategic Report through to the end of 
the Directors’ Report (pages 1 to 75) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the Group operates. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may 
be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
The Vitec Group plc website
www.vitecgroup.com
Annual Report & Accounts online
www.vitecgroup.com/annual_report_2014 1
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
• Full year performance in line with the Board’s expectations
• Revenue 3.3% higher and profit before tax* up 9.1% at constant exchange rates
• Operating margin* maintained at 12.5%
• Significant strategic progress with three value-adding acquisitions and exit from IMT
• Group now focused on Broadcast and Photographic Divisions 
• Well positioned to benefit from any market upturn
Highlights
Key points
Vitec Group - 2014 Financial highlights
Broadcast Division
**
Photographic Division
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£130.9m
£18.9m
14.4%
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of 
business. In 2010 before significant items. 
**
 
 Excluding the IMT business that was disposed during 2014.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£171.1m
£21.2m
12.4%
Up  
9.3%
Up  
30 bps
Down  
7.3%
Down  
6.0%
Up  
20 bps
Up  
6.3%
£309.6m
Revenue 
           £309.6m 
                 £351.0m
                £345.3m
            £315.4m
           £309.6m
10 10 10 10 11 11 11 11 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 
£38.8m
Operating profit
*
 
           £27.7m 
                    £34.5m
                          £39.3m
                          £39.5m
                        £38.8m
55.9p
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share*
             41.9p 
                      51.4p
                           55.8p
                             56.1p
                          55.9p
£70.9m
Net debt 
  £28.1m 
                     £50.4m
                                £63.7m
                            £61.5m
                                     £70.9m
Strategic Report 2 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and dividend
Vitec has delivered a good performance in 2014 and successfully executed its strategy 
of focusing on its core markets. It has made three value-adding acquisitions and 
continued to deliver strong margins. As a consequence of this performance and   
the Board’s continuing confidence in our future, we recommend a final dividend of  
14.7 pence per ordinary share (2013: 14.1 pence). The final dividend, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting will be paid on Friday,   
15 May 2015. This brings the total dividend for 2014 to 24.0 pence per share  
(2013: 23 pence).
Strategy and Board focus
A key area of focus for the Board in 2014 has been an in-depth review of the Group’s 
strategy. As part of this we exited the IMT business in November 2014 to focus on our 
core Broadcast and Photographic end markets. We believe these markets present 
the best growth opportunities going forward. The Company’s unique brands, product 
technology, first class manufacturing operations and marketing skills ensure that it is 
well placed to achieve its strategy of providing vital products and services that support 
the capture and sharing of exceptional images. Stephen Bird, our Group Chief 
Executive, gives further detail on our strategy in his report and the Board will continue 
to track progress and performance against the agreed strategic objectives.
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2014
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
24.0 pence
14.7 pence
9.3 pence
The Group has delivered a good performance in 
2014. It is now focused on its core Broadcast and 
Photographic markets and is well positioned to 
benefit from any upturn in these markets. 
Governance Report 
Turn to page 38
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
Up  
4.3%
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on a good performance Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Governance and tone from the top
In late 2013 we appointed Mark Rollins, Lorraine Rienecker 
and Christopher Humphrey as Non-Executive Directors of  
the Company. Their appointments have refreshed the Board 
bringing in new skills and widening our diversity. In the first  
half of 2014, we ensured that each of these newly appointed 
directors undertook a detailed induction to the Group involving 
visits to our principal operations in the US, Italy and the UK  
in addition to meeting with a wide number of our senior 
management team and people. To understand the Group  
in a wider context, each has also met with our key advisors. 
I have also continued with visits during the year to several  
of our operations in Italy, the US and the UK, as well as 
meeting with several of our major shareholders to discuss  
the Company’s performance, strategic direction and 
governance arrangements.
The culmination of the new directors’ induction to the Group 
was the Board’s visit in October 2014 to the Group’s 
operations in Los Angeles involving visits to Teradek and Bexel, 
receiving market updates from senior management and seeing 
our products and services in operation on the set of “Hell’s 
Kitchen”. We will continue with the practice of the Board 
visiting our principal operations each year to ensure that  
we meet with a wide number of employees and receive first 
hand feedback on emerging technology and end markets.
One important aspect of visiting operations and meeting with 
our employees is setting the right “tone from the top” in terms 
of good corporate governance. Governance is not just a set  
of rules but also entails setting values and principles that 
resonate with all our employees and stakeholders. This 
includes a robust approach to health and safety, rigorous 
financial controls and ensuring that our employees have  
a common set of values and beliefs. This is best evidenced  
by our Code of Business Conduct that every employee   
has received and is available on our website. The Board will 
continue to develop the Company’s governance arrangements 
and the Governance section of this Annual Report on pages 
38 to 55 explains how we intend to do this.
As part of the Board’s continuing evolution, Nigel Moore will  
be standing down as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director at the 
close of the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Nigel has been an 
excellent Non-Executive Director of the Company for over ten 
years and on behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would 
like to thank him for his dedicated service and wise counsel. 
As part of our succession planning for the Board, we propose 
that Christopher Humphrey will succeed Nigel as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. Christopher is a Chartered Management 
Accountant who is currently Chief Executive of Anite plc and 
has the required skills and relevant financial experience to chair 
the Audit Committee. We also propose that Mark Rollins  
will succeed Nigel as Senior Independent Director. Mark has 
extensive experience as a director of listed companies with  
a wide experience of shareholder matters during his most 
recent role as Chief Executive of Senior plc.
With these changes, the Board will comprise seven directors 
with a good balance of skills and diversity to meet the 
challenges of our end markets.
A further area of focus in 2014 for the Board was an externally 
facilitated and independent Board evaluation. The key 
conclusion is that your Board is an effective body with   
clear objectives and a transparent, down to earth style and 
behaviour. The Governance section of this Annual Report sets 
out the process and outputs of this external Board evaluation.
Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be on Tuesday,  
12 May 2015 and the Notice of Meeting and explanatory  
notes accompanies this Annual Report and can be found  
on our website. All resolutions at the AGM will be conducted 
on a poll as we believe that this is more democratic, enabling 
the views of a wider number of shareholders to be taken into 
account by way of proxies being voted. All members of the 
Board will be attending the AGM and we look forward to  
the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Our people
After a challenging year and delivery of a good financial 
performance for our shareholders, I would like to thank all  
of our people for their considerable contribution in 2014.  
The success of the Company is down to the continuing hard 
work, passion and dedication of our people in delivering our 
strategy despite challenging market conditions.
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
24 February 2015
Strategic Report 4 The Vitec Group plc
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/about_us
Vitec Group Overview
What we do
Turn to page 6 
World class products and services
Turn to page 7
Our business model
Turn to pages 10 and 11
Find out more about our Broadcast Division 
Turn to page 24
Vitec is an international Group principally serving  
customers in the Broadcast and Photographic markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well known, premium brands 
on which its customers worldwide rely. 
The Vitec Group is organised into two Divisions:
Broadcast Division
* National Geographic bags are manufactured and distributed under licence.
The Broadcast Division designs, manufactures and distributes premium branded products for broadcasting, 
film and video production for broadcasters and independent content creators.
Find out more about our Photographic Division 
Turn to page 26
The Photographic Division designs, manufactures and distributes premium branded equipment and 
provides dedicated solutions to professional and non-professional image takers.
Photographic Division
* Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Our operations
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/locations
Strategic Report
Our global footprint Revenue by destination
•  We manufacture and distribute our products and services from 
our facilities in 12 countries
•  We employ around 1,900 people in our business
•  Our products and services are sold in over 100 countries 
•  The three value-adding acquisitions we made during 2014 are 
highlighted below
North America 46%
Europe 31%
Asia-Pacific 17%
Rest of the  
world 6%
US
Costa Rica
Israel
China
Singapore
Japan
UK, Netherlands,
Germany, France, Italy
Brazil
SIS*
Following the integration of SIS into 
Camera Corps, Vitec now offers 
customers a range of specialist 
cameras that take the viewer straight 
into the heart of the action – from 
live, high profile events, through 
to Royal occasions and RAF Red 
Arrows aerial displays.
SmallHD
The addition of SmallHD to the Broadcast 
Division in December supplements 
our range of products targeted at 
broadcasters and the growing number  
of independent content creators. 
Autocue
Our ongoing commitment to 
providing customers with a 
broader range of services and 
support has been reinforced 
with the acquisition of leading 
teleprompter provider Autocue.
* Vitec acquired the assets of the Speciality Camera Division of SIS Outside Broadcasts Limited, henceforth referred to as “SIS”. 6 The Vitec Group plc
Vitec’s purpose is to support the capture and sharing of exceptional images in its   
chosen markets of Broadcast and Photographic. Our products encompass a variety  
of technologies and are carefully designed to ensure that, whatever the conditions,  
the image taker has the best equipment to “capture the moment”. 
These technologies range from traditional mechanical engineered products, for example 
in our manual camera supports businesses, through to electronics and software, for 
example in our wireless businesses. Nonetheless the user is the same – an image taker, 
whether a professional cameraman for a broadcaster or corporate event, an independent 
content creator or an enthusiast.
In the markets we serve, our brands are often market leaders both in terms of the 
premium product or service supplied and the share of the market our brands capture. 
Our products and services have enabled some of the most amazing moments to be 
captured and shared.
What We Do
Our Operations Executive 
The Operations Executive is responsible for leading the organisation. Together the team develops strategy, implements our business 
plans and ensures we run the Group effectively. It meets monthly to discuss the business and drive collaboration. The strength of 
this team derives from a diverse range of personal and functional skills and experience.
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
Martin Green
Group Development  
and HR Director
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary
Matt Danilowicz
Broadcast Divisional    
Chief Executive
Marco Pezzana
Photographic Divisional   
Chief Executive 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
We design, manufacture and supply high quality, world class, branded products and services that enable end users 
to capture and share exceptional images.
Our products typically attach to or support a camera – primarily for broadcast, video and photographic applications.
We also provide high-end technical services to major broadcasters.
We are structured as one group; our products serve a variety of end users and are offered as a cohesive package.
Supports (pedestals, tripods and heads)
» Avenger
» Gitzo
» Manfrotto
» OConnor
» Sachtler
» Vinten
Camera accessories
» Manfrotto
» OConnor
Lighting & controls
» Colorama
» Lastolite
» Litepanels
» Manfrotto
Wireless systems
» Haigh-Farr
» Teradek
Mobile power
 » Anton/Bauer
Prompters
» Autocue
» Autoscript
Robotic camera systems
» Camera Corps
» Vinten Radamec
Monitors
» SmallHD
Distribution, rental & services
» Bexel  
» Camera Corps
» The Camera Store 
Bags
» Manfrotto
» National Geographic*
View Vitec brands
www.vitecgroup.com/brands
* National Geographic bags are manufactured and distributed under licence. 8 The Vitec Group plc
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
  Free cash flow: cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
Continue to deliver our strategy
We delivered a good performance in 2014 and continued 
to successfully execute our strategy of focusing on our core 
markets supplemented with selective value-adding acquisitions.
Vitec’s Broadcast and Photographic activities continue to 
present attractive long-term growth prospects for the Group. 
This growth is being driven by the increase in not only the 
capture but also the sharing of high quality images, and by the 
continued rapid evolution of new technologies. Vitec has leading 
brands and technologies in its markets and we are developing 
and launching new premium products and services, particularly 
for the growing number of independent content creators.
Our strategy is to grow our core business by leveraging our 
premium brands supported by product development and 
utilising our global reach. We believe that the Asia-Pacific region, 
which accounts for around 17% of our revenue, is an important 
growth market and there are good opportunities in this region. 
Products and services supporting major live events also present 
good growth opportunities for the Group, as demonstrated by 
the Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup.
In our Broadcast market we have launched a number of 
innovative products including: the Teradek Bolt; new ranges  
of Anton/Bauer batteries; and the Q3 robotic camera from 
Camera Corps. The Teradek Bolt is a market leading wireless 
transmitter that sends high quality images up to 600 metres and 
is selling strongly. Anton/Bauer has launched a new range of 
Lithium-Ion batteries with the latest battery cell technology and 
enhanced features including an improved fuel computer display. 
The new Q3 from Camera Corps has an even smoother motion, 
enhanced zoom and choice of multiple HD formats. 
We have integrated the management of our Services Division 
with our Videocom Division, and have renamed the combined 
business the Broadcast Division. We now report our product 
sales and services to the Broadcast market as one Division.  
Our service activities performed well in 2014, including the 
benefit from contracts to supply the Sochi Winter Olympics and 
FIFA World Cup. We are concentrating on driving sales while 
securing attractive pricing for our premium services, improving 
asset utilisation, and managing the cost base effectively.
Our Photographic Division also performed well. Against a 
challenging market background, it has continued to gain share 
in some key markets and has improved its operating margin* 
percentage despite lower revenue. New products launched 
towards the end of 2013 and through 2014 performed well 
and include upgraded professional tripod ranges and Manfrotto 
professional bags. More recently we have launched the Off-
Road range of tripods and bags and these have received good 
initial feedback. We continue to grow sales through our owned 
distribution channels and make good progress with our online 
sales activities.
2014 performance overview
We have delivered a good performance in 2014 with revenue 
at constant exchange rates up 3.3% and profit before tax* 
9.1% higher. As expected, foreign exchange rates have 
negatively impacted our reported revenue and profits. 
Following our exit from the loss-making IMT business we are 
focused on our core Broadcast and Photographic markets 
supplemented with selective value-adding acquisitions. 
Vitec has continued to deliver its strategy and has 
performed well in 2014. Following our exit from 
the IMT business we are now focused on our core 
Broadcast and Photographic markets and are well 
positioned to benefit from any upturn in our markets. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Our Broadcast Division performed well in a variable market 
including a strong performance from Teradek, acquired in 
the second half of 2013. We also benefited in 2014 from 
contracts to support the Sochi Winter Olympics and the FIFA 
World Cup. Our premium product and service offering was 
further strengthened through the acquisitions of SIS, Autocue 
and more recently SmallHD.
The Photographic Division has taken share in its key markets 
although we have seen a continuation of challenging 
conditions, particularly in the camera bags sector. Overall,  
we are pleased with the performance including the success 
of our new product launches.
We have continued to manage the Group’s operating 
expenses* through tight cost control in addition to the   
year-on-year benefit from previous restructuring activities.  
As a result we have maintained the Group’s operating margin* 
at 12.5% despite lower revenue. 
Profit before tax* of £35.3 million was £0.3 million lower than 
prior year although 9.1% higher at constant exchange rates. 
The reported Group profit before tax of £20.1 million (2013: 
£20.4 million) was after: £2.7 million of restructuring costs 
(2013: £11.4 million); £8.5 million charges associated with 
acquired businesses (2013: £3.8 million); and a £4.0 million 
loss arising from the disposal of the IMT business. 
Vitec continues to be a cash generative Group with free cash 
flow
+
 of £18.2 million (2013: £21.4 million) after £3.2 million  
of cash outflows on restructuring activities (2013: £7.9 million). 
The Group continues to have a strong balance sheet with net 
debt at 31 December 2014 at £70.9 million (31 December 
2013: £61.5 million) and a net debt to EBITDA ratio for 
covenants of 1.2 times (31 December 2013: 1.1 times).
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements  
to our existing product ranges and I am pleased with the new 
products that we have launched this year. The level of product 
development collaboration across our Divisions has also 
remained strong in 2014, including products such as the new 
range of Anton/Bauer batteries. Further examples of our new 
products can be seen in the Divisional case studies on pages 
25 to 27. We continue to invest around 4% of Group product 
sales into research, development and engineering.
Acquisitions and disposals
In addition to the disposal of IMT, as described earlier, we 
further strengthened the Group’s premium product and service 
offerings through three acquisitions in the year:
•   The speciality camera assets of SIS Outside Broadcasts 
Limited are renowned for the innovative solutions that deliver 
viewers to the heart of live events. This business has been 
successfully integrated into our Camera Corps business and 
has supported many sporting events including Test Cricket 
(with the Stump Cam), and in-boat footage at the Boat Race.
•   Autocue is a long established and highly respected 
brand  of teleprompting hardware and software which 
complements the Division’s existing Autoscript business.  
We completed the acquisition in October and have 
integrated this business into the Group. We will continue  
to develop and support this well-known premium brand. 
•   Our most recent acquisition was SmallHD, which was acquired 
in December and is a leading provider of high-quality, high 
definition on-camera field monitors designed around the 
growing number of independent content creators. The business 
complements the Broadcast Division’s existing video activities, 
including Teradek which serves a similar customer base.
We have a strong background in identifying, reviewing and 
executing on acquisitions and will continue to evaluate 
opportunities as and when they appear. 
Market overview
An overview of our two markets is provided on the  
following pages.
Approval of Strategic Report 
We have provided information in this report on our strategy, 
business model and objectives which is contained in the 
Strategic Report. You will find the Strategic Report on pages  
1 to 39 and its content has been approved by the Board.
Outlook
We achieved significant strategic progress in 2014 and 
focused the Group on its core Broadcast and Photographic 
activities. Vitec is well positioned to benefit from any upturn 
in its markets. While some markets remain challenging, the 
Board remains confident about the prospects for the Group.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
24 February 2015
Strategic Report
Market updates
Turn to page 14 to 17
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 We create value by:
Receiving feedback from customers 
Our businesses continually obtain 
feedback on the markets, competitors 
and products from customers as well  
as from research. As our businesses  
are often the market leaders, this  
enables us to anticipate and respond  
to developments to ensure our  
brands remain renowned for their 
premium offerings. 
Designing and developing innovative 
product and service offerings for  
our brands  
We are at the forefront of embracing new 
technologies, products and materials that 
result in innovative high-quality yet 
cost-effective solutions. We develop 
innovative products and services that  
are protected by patents and trademarks 
and which are marketed under our 
world-renowned brands. 
Sourcing and lean manufacturing 
We procure materials from reputable 
suppliers and produce our products   
in efficient and environmentally friendly 
operations and, where appropriate,   
in lower cost countries such as Costa 
Rica and China. The majority of our 
operations are relatively low-volume, 
small-batch processes.
Working with global logistics 
providers 
We have distributors and customers 
across the globe and we engage with  
a number of leading logistics partners  
to ensure responsive and timely delivery 
of our products to the relevant geography.
Having a global distribution  
and sales network to serve   
our customers 
We market our products and services 
through our own sales and marketing 
teams. The majority of our sales are 
conducted via a global network of 
distributors, dealers and retailers who  
sell on to customers. We are expanding 
our e-commerce capabilities through 
working closely with our customers to 
develop our online presence. The breadth 
of products and our strong brand heritage 
means that our network of channel 
partners is unrivalled in the markets   
we serve.
We create value by: 
Strategy  
We set Group and Divisional strategy in 
the medium term, especially with regards 
to markets served, customer segments 
and products supplied.
Budgeting and monitoring  
Vitec sets Group and Divisional budgets 
annually and regularly reviews Group and 
Divisional performance during the year. 
This includes regular forecasts to ensure 
that the financial performance is clearly 
understandable and appropriate targets 
are set.
Investor relations 
We communicate our strategy, 
performance, outlook and governance 
with our investors on a regular basis.
Treasury and tax 
Vitec manages its financing, hedging and 
tax planning activities centrally to ensure 
that the Group has an appropriate 
structure and funding to support its 
geographically diverse business. 
Acquisitions and disposals  
We buy businesses that provide a  
good return with clear synergies such  
as extending our technological, product 
or geographic footprint. We dispose of 
those businesses that do not fit 
strategically or do not offer scope   
to deliver attractive returns. 
Compliance and governance  
Vitec ensures that an effective Group-
wide governance framework and policies 
are in place to ensure a strong culture of 
governance and ethical behaviour. 
Risk management 
We set an overall framework for reviewing 
and assessing risk and taking mitigating 
actions as part of the execution of our 
strategy. 
Health and safety 
Vitec sets policies to ensure a healthy, 
safe and productive work environment  
for all our employees, and ensures they 
are complied with.
Talent management  
We work across the Group to have 
consistent policies, processes and 
initiatives for acquiring, retaining   
and engaging our best talent.
Our Business Model
We create value by:
Product excellence 
Everything we make and do  
is exceptional
Vitec products and services are 
exceptional because they are delivered  
by outstanding people. We set the 
highest standards of technical 
performance and aftercare, designing 
solutions that do precisely what image-
makers need them to do. All our activities 
reflect our obsession with quality.
Customer focus 
We are nothing without  
our customers
At Vitec, the focus is always on the 
customer, allowing us to support them  
no matter what changes and challenges 
they face. If we respect our customers’ 
creative expertise, they will respect ours.
Creative solutions
We are constantly looking to break  
new ground
At Vitec we learn fast and are always 
looking for new ways to support our 
customers and meet their needs. To   
stay ahead of the game, our creativity  
has to be applied to every aspect of   
our business, not just our products.   
Our passion, flair and ability to ask  
“why not?” are at the heart of  
everything we do.
Collaboration
We work better when we work together
The closer we are to our colleagues and 
customer contacts, the more successful 
we will be. If we celebrate achievements, 
share knowledge, pool resources, test 
ideas and support each other, life will  
be more rewarding and more satisfying.
Integrity
What you see is what you get
Commitment, fairness and honesty 
towards our customers, our suppliers  
and our own people. By being authentic 
we develop loyalty and trust between 
ourselves and all those we engage with.
We engage our employees 
through clear values
At the Divisional level At the Group level
10 The Vitec Group plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
Read about our engagement 
with shareholders on pages 50 
and 51
Read the Financial Review 
on pages 20 to 23
Read the Financial
Review on pages
20 to 23
Read about our 
strategy and our 
markets on
pages 6 to 17
Increasing
shareholder
value
Customer 
focus
Product
excellence
Creative
solutions
Collaboration
Integrity
management
Risk
governance
Compliance and
and safety
Health
Acquisitions
and disposals
Treasury
and tax
Investor
relations
Talent
management
Budgeting
and monitoring
Strategy
to our customers
Distribution and sales
Global logistics
network
Sourcing and lean
manufacturing
Feedback from end
users on our brands
Designing and developing
innovative product and
service offerings
Read about our principal 
risks and their mitigations
on pages 18 and 19
Read the Corporate 
Governance Report
on pages 40 to 55
Read the Group
Chief Executive’s
Review on pages  
8 and 9
Read about our Health and 
Safety policy, practice and
statistics on pages 32 and 33
Read about 
employee
engagement
on page 33
Broadcast
We provide high quality, 
branded equipment 
for broadcasters, 
cinematographers and 
independent content creators.
Photographic
We provide a complete range of 
innovative branded accessories 
for professional photographers, 
photographic enthusiasts, social 
recorders and independent 
content creators.
Vitec’s strategy is to focus 
on two primary markets 
that offer good long-term 
growth potential: 12 The Vitec Group plc
Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
Vitec has industry-leading product 
development teams. The Group 
continues to invest in developing 
premium innovative products for its 
customers, including: 
•  Teradek Bolt – transmits video wirelessly 
over 600 metres  
•  Anton/Bauer – a new range of portable 
power solutions (batteries and chargers) 
for broadcasters on location and for 
medical applications 
•  Q3 – our most powerful miniature 
robotic system from Camera Corps
•  Manfrotto BeFree Travel Tripod – new 
compact and stylish tripod designed  
to be quick and easy to use
•  Manfrotto – launch of an expanded 
photographic bag range to capitalise  
on the strength of the brand
•  Gitzo Mountaineer tripod – “all-purpose” 
carbon tripod, both extremely rigid and 
light-weight
•  Manfrotto Off Road – collection of 
products ideal for outdoor photography
Vitec provides premium products and 
services, and we believe our margins 
should reflect this. Over the last few 
years we have progressively improved 
our operating margins*. During 2014 
we have managed the cost base 
through good cost control and 
realising benefits from previous 
restructuring processes: 
•  Disposal of loss-making IMT business  
in November 2014
•  Restructuring initiated in 2013 provided 
£10.2 million benefit to profitability 
during 2014, including the transfer of 
certain manufacturing to Costa Rica
•  Commenced the full integration of our 
camera bags business into our other 
photographic activities
Vitec has strong relationships with its 
customers and end users. The Group 
continues to develop products and 
provide services that meet its 
customers’ needs, supplementing this 
with appropriate acquisitions. Key 
developments in the year include: 
•  Grew sales with a number of core 
customers and developing our 
e-commerce offering
•  Expanded our product offering to 
independent content creators in the 
Broadcast market with the acquisitions 
of Autocue (a prompting business)  
and SmallHD (an on-camera  
monitor business)
•  Strengthened our position in Broadcast 
sports applications with the purchase  
of the speciality camera assets of  
SIS Outside Broadcast
•  Introduced a new version of the 
Manfrotto 190, one of our core product 
families for our core professional and 
advanced hobbyist users 
Our people are our most important 
asset and we aim to retain and recruit 
suitable talent to support the 
business. During 2014 Vitec: 
•  Conducted a series of mini  
conferences across the Group for  
over 600 of our employees 
•  More appointments of new talent to 
senior roles in key markets of US  
and Asia-Pacific
•  Awarded internal promotions for 
high-potential employees both within 
and across Divisions
•  Continued to encourage diversity within 
our business across all the countries we 
operate in
Vitec has a broad geographical spread 
with customers in excess of 100 
countries. We are investing in growing 
our sales globally including the 
following initiatives: 
•  Strengthened our teams in the 
Asia-Pacific region in both our 
Broadcast and Photographic Divisions
•  Continued to drive sales internationally 
through our global sales team and  
our offices based in China, Hong Kong, 
Japan and Singapore that accounts  
for £33.9 million of our global sales
•  Worked with multi-national retail and 
broadcast customers to support  
them internationally 
•  Continued to design and develop 
products that meet specific customer 
requirements in these regions
Vitec generates strong levels of 
operating cash flow
#
 to support the 
development of the business, maintain 
a good progressive dividend policy 
and fund appropriate acquisitions. 
Cash generation is a priority for the 
Group with senior management 
incentivised to manage Vitec’s 
working capital effectively. During  
the year Vitec: 
•  Maintained a strong control over 
working capital while continuing to 
invest in the business to drive  
organic growth
•  Retained good processes for tracking 
and managing working capital based  
on clearly defined metrics
•  Used the cash generated to grow  
the business through target  
acquisitions while maintaining  
a strong balance sheet
Strategic priority
Driving sales growth 
through innovation
Strategic priority
Delivering good margins
Strategic priority
Growing sales in our  
core markets
Strategic priority
Developing our talent
Strategic priority
Delivering growth through 
geographical expansion
Strategic priority
Strong cash generation
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid.  13 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
     
KPI measure 2014  2013 Definition/Calculation
Growing the business    
Constant currency revenue growth 3.3% (9.8%) % increase/(decrease) in revenue at constant   
   exchange rates
Constant currency operating profit* growth 7.4% (0.7%) % increase/(decrease) in operating profit* at constant  
   exchange rates
Return on sales 12.5% 12.5% Operating profit* divided by revenue
Investing in product development 4.1% 3.8% Total research, development and engineering costs  
   before capitalisation and amortisation of development  
   costs, divided by revenue from product sales
Delivering value to shareholders    
Basic earnings per share*  55.9p 56.1p Profit after tax, before restructuring costs, charges  
   associated with acquired businesses and disposal of  
   business, divided by the weighted average number of  
   shares in issue during the financial year
Total dividend per share 24.0p 23.0p Sum of interim and final dividend per share in respect of  
   the financial year
Managing cash generation    
Free cash flow £18.2m £21.4m Cash generated from operating activities after net capital  
   expenditure, net interest and tax paid
Working capital to sales 17.9% 16.5% Inventories, receivables and payables at the end of the  
   financial year, divided by annualised Q4 revenue
Inventory days 100 days 106 days Inventories at the end of the year divided by Q4 cost of  
   sales (before exchange gains/losses) times number of  
   days in Q4
Trade receivable days 41 days 39 days Trade receivables at the end of the financial year divided  
   by Q4 revenue times number of days in Q4
Trade payable days 49 days 49 days Trade payables at the end of the financial year divided by  
   Q4 cost of sales (before exchange gains/losses) times  
   number of days in Q4
Safety    
Accident record (number of accidents) 1 4 Number of accidents resulting in greater than 3 days  
   absence per 100,000 employees
Environment    
Electricity usage  36.4 36.5 Actual usage in MWh per £million of Group revenue
Gas usage 18.7 20.8 Actual usage in MWh per £million of Group revenue
Water usage 0.09 0.09 Actual usage in cubic metres per £million of   
   Group revenue
The Board and Operations Executive monitor a number of key performance indicators (KPIs),  
to measure our performance over time. Targets for most KPIs are set annually during our 
budgetary process and include our strategic priorities: 
Key Performance Indicators
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Earnings per share is also before disposal of business. 14 The Vitec Group plc
Increase in video
There has been a significant increase in the amount of video 
being shot globally. This has been stimulated by the ease  
with which independent content creators can capture, edit  
and distribute content, for example over the internet and the  
rise in popularity of hand-held devices. It has also grown thanks 
to the increased video capabilities of photographic cameras. 
High definition transition and higher image quality led by 
sporting applications 
Television production is increasingly being shot in high definition 
which has resulted in studios being upgraded, camera 
replacement cycles shortening and increased demand for  
our products. As producers seek to shoot higher quality 
images, ultra high definition cameras are being manufactured 
although the timing and extent of their adoption is uncertain. 
Sports broadcasting remains at the forefront of higher quality 
images as broadcasters seek to differentiate their offerings.  
Vitec supplies the Broadcast market 
with a variety of products and  
services to assist in the capture   
and transmission of video images.
The Broadcast market comprises products and services 
used in the production of programmes for broadcasters 
and cinematographers, whether in studio or on location. 
The growing professional video segment comprises 
products and services used in the production of video 
by independent content creators including education 
and religious establishments, corporate entities and 
governmental bodies. 
We estimate that the Broadcast addressable market 
for products and services supplied by Vitec is worth 
around £700 million annually. This includes the traditional 
broadcast and film markets as well as the video 
production market. Vitec is well positioned due to   
its broad geographical reach and premium products.  
We have a global sales team that provides strong 
international coverage and is able to offer a full range 
of products and services to our customers all over the 
world. This market has seen some variability in demand  
in 2014, particularly in the US, although it has benefited 
from major sporting events.
Broadcast
The growth drivers
Market Update
Broadcasters’ capital expenditure
Broadcasters’ ability and willingness to incur capital expenditure 
on the construction or refurbishment of studios depends partly 
on their financial performance. Those broadcasters reliant on 
subscription income have performed well and have expanded 
with new operations globally. Those broadcasters reliant on 
advertising expenditure have largely recovered since the 
downturn but tend to be more susceptible to macroeconomic 
conditions. The savings and efficiencies offered by LED lighting 
compared with traditional lighting drive the replacement of those 
products too.
Wireless transmission of data 
We see accelerating growth in the use of wireless devices  
to transmit data and images. We believe that this will continue 
including the use of high performance antennas alongside  
low latency transmitters and receivers. The cost-effectiveness, 
range and quality of video data encoders, decoders and related 
components allows users to monitor and transmit images  
at increasingly lower costs.
Vitec has the premium 
position and largest 
market share, 
providing many of 
the leading products 
through our brands to 
the Broadcast market. 
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Product 
category
Supports Prompters Lighting - 
LEDs
Mobile 
power
Wireless 
systems
Monitors Robotic 
camera 
systems
Distribution, 
rental & 
services
Brand OConnor, 
Sachtler, 
Vinten 
Autocue, 
Autoscript
Litepanels Anton/
Bauer
Haigh-
Farr,
Teradek
SmallHD Camera 
Corps, 
Vinten 
Radamec 
Bexel, 
Camera 
Corps, The 
Camera 
Store
Market 
position*
1 1 1 1 1 3 2 1
Strategic Report
Vitec market position
Vitec has the premium position and largest market share, 
providing many of the leading products through our 
brands to the Broadcast market.
FIFA World Cup Broadcast Rights
5
0
2002 2006 2010 2014 
(est.)
Source:  FIFA Financial Reports
US$bn
TV Revenue Growth Forecasts – 2014-2018
TV advertising            TV Subscription & Licence Fees
10
5
0
North 
America
EMEA
Asia-
Pacific
Latin
America
*  Management estimates by sales value in the market segments in which these products are sold.
CAGR
+
 %
Source:  PwC Media & Entertainment Outlook (2014-2018)
+
 Compound Annual Growth Rate 16 The Vitec Group plc
Sales of cameras with inter-changeable 
lenses  
The installed base of ILCs continues to 
grow globally even though global shipments 
continued to fall in 2014. In addition, there 
has been rapid growth in the volumes of 
CSCs which are being bought by end users 
who upgrade from their smart phones,  
and by professionals and enthusiasts  
who use them as a second camera.  
The new social recorders 
There is a new population of photographers 
who are interested in recording images. 
These “social recorders” are using smart 
phones with high mega-pixel lenses to take 
images and share them using social media 
platforms. As these new entrants become 
more interested in photography, they 
migrate to ILCs (often initially by buying a 
CSC) and become more likely to acquire 
our products for use with that ILC. 
New distribution channels 
The emergence of new distribution 
channels for photographic products,   
such as online and in consumer electronics 
stores, has helped stimulate demand from 
new customers. The growth of sales 
through online channels is continuing.
Vitec supplies the Photographic market with a variety 
of products for use alongside a photographic camera. 
The majority of our products are designed for use with an interchangeable 
lens camera (ILC) such as a single lens reflex (SLR) camera and compact 
system camera (CSC or mirrorless).  
We estimate that the Photographic market for product categories 
supplied or distributed by Vitec is worth around £800 million annually. 
Approximately half of this market is accounted for by professional 
photographers and the remainder by consumers who have a keen interest 
in photography or simply want to record and share images. Photography 
continues to attract new consumers as the number and type of image-
taking devices increases and the distribution of images via social media 
continues to grow in popularity.
The growth drivers Vitec market position
Photographic
Market Update
Vitec has the leading 
premier brands 
in photographic 
camera tripods, 
heads and bags 
for the professional 
and consumer 
photographer.
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Vitec has the leading premier 
brands in photographic 
camera tripods, heads and 
bags for the professional and 
consumer photographer.
Product 
category
Supports Bags Lighting
Brand Avenger, 
Gitzo, 
Manfrotto 
Manfrotto, 
National 
Geographic
+
Colorama, 
Lastolite, 
Manfrotto
Market 
position*
1 3 2
+
  Manufactured and distributed under licence.
*  Management estimates by sales value in the market 
segments in which these products are sold. 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Strategic Report
Global Compact System Camera Sales Volume 
5
4
3
2
1
0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Sour ce:  GfK
Volume in millions 18 The Vitec Group plc
Specific Risk Mitigation
Demand for Vitec’s products
Demand for our products may be adversely affected by many 
factors, including changes in customer and consumer preferences 
and our ability to deliver appropriate products or to support 
changes in technology. During the year we have continued to  
invest in new product development and launched a number of   
new products. Demand may also be impacted by competitor 
activity, particularly from low-cost countries. 
We value our relationships with our customers and closely monitor 
our target markets and user requirements. We maintain good 
relationships with our key customers and make appropriate 
investments in product development and marketing activities          
to ensure that we remain competitive in these markets. In support      
of our new product launches, we have completed consumer 
research before developing new products to ensure that they       
are appropriately designed for our target markets. We are      
actively pursuing growth in selected emerging markets. 
New markets and channels of distribution
As we enter new markets and channels of distribution we may 
achieve lower than anticipated trading volumes and pricing levels or 
higher costs and resource requirements. This may impact the levels 
of profitability and cash flows delivered. During the year we have 
seen a continuation of the trend of sales increasingly being made 
online rather than through stores. We have developed new routes-
to-market in emerging markets, and introduced new products. 
We have a thorough process for assessing and planning the entry 
into new markets and related opportunities. This includes marketing 
and advertising strategies for our products and services.              
We continuously assess our performance in these markets and    
the related opportunities and risks. We adapt our approach taking 
into account our actual and anticipated performance. We review   
our channels of distribution to make sure they remain appropriate.
Acquisitions
In pursuing our business strategy we continuously explore 
opportunities to enhance our business through development 
activities such as strategic acquisitions. This involves a number     
of calculated risks including: acquiring desired businesses on 
economically acceptable terms; integrating new businesses, 
employees, business systems and technology; and realising 
satisfactory post-acquisition performance. In 2014 we acquired 
SIS, Autocue and SmallHD, and those businesses are in the 
process of being integrated into the Broadcast Division.
We mitigate these risks by having a clear acquisition strategy with   
a robust valuation model. Thorough due diligence processes are 
completed including the use of external advisers where appropriate. 
There is a clear focus on integrating acquired businesses and 
monitoring post-acquisition performance.
Pricing pressure
We might experience pricing pressure including challenges in 
raising prices, especially in the current economic climate, or not 
recovering increases in commodity and other costs. If the price     
of our products does not at least recover movements in commodity 
costs and other expenses and we are unable to reduce our 
expenses, our results could be adversely affected.
We ensure that our product and service offering remains competitive 
by investing in new product development and in appropriate 
marketing and product support, and by improving the management 
of supply chain costs. This allows us to support price increases 
when required by working closely with our suppliers and managing 
our expenses and cost base appropriately. We are rationalising    
our product range to reduce complexity which will also allow us     
to achieve some cost saving on production. 
Dependence on key suppliers
We source materials and components from many suppliers in 
various locations and in some instances are more dependent on    
a limited number of suppliers for particular items. If any of these 
suppliers or subcontractors fail to meet the Group’s requirements, 
we may not have readily available alternatives, thereby impacting 
our ability to provide an appropriate level of customer service. 
We aim to secure multiple sources of supply for all materials and 
components and develop strong relationships with our major 
suppliers. We review the performance of strategically important 
suppliers globally on an ongoing basis. Where economical we     
look to source materials closer to the manufacturing facilities          
to reduce lead times and improve control over the supply chain.
Vitec is exposed to a number of risk factors which may affect its performance. 
The Group has a well-established framework for reviewing and assessing 
these risks on a regular basis, and has put in place appropriate processes 
and procedures to mitigate against them. However, no system of control  
or mitigation can completely eliminate all risks. The Board has determined  
that the following are the principal risks facing the Group:
Increased risk
Constant risk
Decreased risk
Change in risk profile 
during 2014
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 19 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Specific Risk Mitigation
Dependence on key customers
While the Group has a wide customer base, the loss of a key 
customer, or a significant worsening in their success or financial 
performance, could result in a material impact on the Group’s 
results. As in previous years, Vitec has no customer that accounts 
for more than 10% of sales. The business works with a variety    
of customers on large sporting events and the extent of these 
activities varies year-on-year.
We monitor closely our performance with all customers through 
developing strong relationships, and we monitor the financial 
performance of our key customers. We continue to expand our 
customer base including entering into new channels of distribution 
to expand our portfolio of customers.
People
We employ around 1,900 people and are exposed to a risk of 
being unable to retain or recruit suitable diverse talent to support 
the business. We manufacture and supply products from a 
number of locations and it is important that our people operate   
in a professional and safe environment.
We recognise that it is important to motivate and retain capable 
people across our businesses to ensure that we are not exposed 
to risk of unplanned staff turnover. We fairly reward our people and 
have appropriate staff recruitment, appraisal, talent management 
and succession planning strategies to ensure we recruit and retain 
good quality people and leadership across the business. We take 
our employees’ health and safety very seriously and have 
appropriate processes in place to allow us to monitor and address 
any issues appropriately.
Laws and regulations
We are subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in  
all countries in which we operate. As a result, we are exposed    
to many forms of legal risk. These include, without limitation, 
regulations relating to government contracting rules, anti-bribery 
provisions, competition, and health and safety laws in numerous 
jurisdictions around the world. Failure to comply with such laws 
could significantly impact the Group’s reputation and could 
expose the Group to fines and penalties. We may also incur 
additional cost from any legal action that is required to protect  
our intellectual property. 
We have resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance 
supported by external advice where necessary. We enhance our 
controls, processes and employee knowledge to maintain good 
governance and to comply with laws and regulations such as the 
provisions of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The Group has processes 
in place to ensure that its worldwide business units understand 
and apply the Group’s culture and processes to their own 
operations. We actively protect our intellectual property,            
and will legally pursue any party that infringes our intellectual     
property rights. 
Reputation of Vitec Group 
Damage to our reputation and our brand names can arise from    
a range of events such as poor product performance, 
unsatisfactory customer service, and other events either within   
or outside our control.
We recognise the importance of our reputation and attempt         
to identify any potential issues quickly and address them 
appropriately. We recognise the importance of providing high 
quality products, good customer service and managing our 
business in a safe and professional manner. This requires             
all employees to commit to and comply with the Vitec Code         
of Business Conduct.
Exchange rates 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed   
to volatility in currency exchange rates in respect of foreign 
currency denominated transactions, and the translation of net 
assets and income statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity 
accounted investments. The Group is exposed to a number of 
foreign currencies, the most significant being the US Dollar,    
Euro and Japanese Yen. 
We regularly review and assess our exposure to changes in 
exchange rates. We reduce the impact of sudden movements      
in exchange rates with the use of appropriate hedging activities   
on forecast foreign exchange net exposures. We do not hedge   
the translation effect of exchange rate movements on the    
Income Statement or Balance Sheet of overseas subsidiaries.
Business Continuity Planning 
There are risks relating to business continuity resulting from 
specific events that may impact our manufacturing plants           
or supply chain, particularly where these account for a significant 
amount of our trading activity. We are also dependent on our      
IT platforms continuing to work effectively in supporting            
our business. 
We address this risk with Business Continuity Plans and Disaster 
Recovery Plans at our key sites, and by carrying out periodic IT 
vulnerability assessments. We have global insurance schemes     
in place which provide cover for business interruption. 
Strategic Report 20 The Vitec Group plc
Financial Review
Group Finance Director  
Paul Hayes reviews performance
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share*
Revenue
Operating profit* 
55.9p
£309.6m
£38.8m
Down  
1.8%
Down  
1.8%
Down  
0.4%
2014 Performance Overview
Vitec delivered a good full year 
performance with constant currency 
growth in revenue and operating profit*. 
This included the benefit from supporting 
the Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World 
Cup and a full year contribution from the 
Teradek business which was acquired in 
the second half of 2013. The results also 
reflect: the incremental benefits of 
successfully streamlining the business;  
an ongoing focus on cost management; 
and the exit from the loss-making IMT 
business. These benefits were offset by  
an adverse impact from foreign exchange.
Reported revenue decreased by 1.8%  
to £309.6 million (2013: £315.4 million) 
although revenue at constant currency 
increased by 3.3%. Operating profit* 
decreased by 1.8% to £38.8 million  
(2013: £39.5 million) but increased by 
7.4% on  a constant currency basis. The 
adverse year-on-year impact from foreign 
exchange movements was £15.8 million 
on revenue and £3.5 million on operating 
profit*. Revenue was 1.5% higher and 
operating profit* was up 5.0% on an 
organic basis. The operating margin* was 
maintained at 12.5% of revenue.
The Group gross margin* was lower than 
the prior year at 41.6% (2013: 43.9%) 
mainly reflecting product mix, including  
the non-repeat of a high margin US 
Department of Justice contract at IMT,  
and revenue growth in the lower margin 
broadcast services business.
Operating expenses* were £9.1 million 
lower than in 2013 at £90.0 million.   
This reflects the continuation of focused 
cost control that has delivered a   
£5.0 million year-on-year reduction in 
underlying operating expenses*. There  
is also a £4.0 million benefit from foreign 
exchange, partially offset by the inclusion 
of the operating expenses* of acquisitions  
made in the year. 
We maintained our investment in  
product development and innovation at 
4% of Group product sales (2013: 4%). 
Research, development and engineering 
expenditure on a like-for-like basis was 
£11.3 million (2013: £11.1 million)   
after adjusting for capitalised 
development expenditure of £3.4 million 
(2013: £2.4 million) and £0.8 million of 
amortisation (2013: £0.7 million). 
There was a restructuring charge of   
£2.7 million (2013: £11.4 million).   
This included the completion of the 
restructuring projects that we 
commenced in 2013, in line with   
our plans. This restructuring was 
supplemented by the decision in 
December 2014 to fully integrate our 
camera bags business into our other 
Photographic activities, which will be 
completed in 2015. The total year-on-year 
benefit of these restructuring activities to 
our profitability in 2014 was £4.0 million 
(2013: £6.2 million).
Vitec has performed well in 2014 with revenue 
3.3% higher and operating profit* up 7.4%, both at 
constant exchange rates. This includes: contributions 
from value adding acquisitions; the incremental 
benefit from restructuring certain businesses and  
the continuation of focused cost control.
Financial Review  
www.vitecgroup.com/financial_review
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses; profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
#
  Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid. 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Profit before tax* of £35.3 million was £0.3 million lower than 
the prior year. Adjusted earnings per share* decreased by 
0.4% to 55.9 pence per share (2013: 56.1 pence per share). 
Group profit before tax of £20.1 million (2013: £20.4 million) 
was after: £2.7 million of restructuring costs (2013: £11.4 
million); £8.5 million charges associated with acquired 
businesses (2013: £3.8 million); and a £4.0 million loss   
arising from the disposal of the IMT business (2013: £nil).
Free cash flow
+
 of £18.2 million (2013: £21.4 million) is 
reported after £3.2 million of cash outflows on restructuring 
activities (2013: £7.9 million). There was a total cash outflow  
of £7.3 million (2013: £2.0 million inflow). This was after a 
£13.3 million net cash outflow relating to acquisitions  
(2013: £8.5 million), and further outflows relating to disposals, 
net purchases of shares to meet share plan commitments 
and dividend payments. Net debt at 31 December 2014 was 
£70.9 million (31 December 2013: £61.5 million) including 
a net adverse impact of £2.1 million from foreign exchange 
movements. The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with  
a year end net debt to EBITDA ratio for covenants of 1.2  
times (31 December 2013: 1.1 times).
Management’s estimate of the main drivers that reconcile  
the 2014 to the 2013 operating profit* are summarised in  
the following table:
Operating profit* bridge  
(£ million)
2013 Operating profit*  39.5
Gross margin effects:
- Volume, mix and efficiency (3.6)
- Sales price less cost inflation (3.5)
Restructuring savings 4.0
Underlying operating expenses* 5.0
  1.9
Acquisitions 2.2
Disposals (1.3) 
  0.9
Foreign exchange effects:
- Translation (1.5)
- Transaction after hedging (2.0)
  3.5
2014 Operating profit*  38.8
 
Net financial expense
Net financial expense totalled £3.5 million (2013: £3.9 million), 
after the benefit from a one-off receipt of £0.3 million interest 
on a repayment from the Costa Rica tax authorities. Interest 
payable was £3.6 million (2013: £3.6 million) and was covered 
15 times (2013: 15 times) by earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax* decreased by £0.3 million to £35.3 million 
(2013: £35.6 million). The reported profit before tax after 
restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired 
businesses and disposal of business decreased by   
1.5% to £20.1 million (2013: £20.4 million).
Taxation
The effective taxation rate on profit before tax* decreased from 
31% in 2013 to 30% in 2014. We anticipate that the tax rate 
will remain at 30% in 2015. The Group’s tax charge is higher 
than the UK statutory rate because the majority of its profits 
arise in overseas jurisdictions with higher tax rates.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share before restructuring costs, charges 
associated with acquired businesses and disposal of a 
business was 55.9 pence per share (2013: 56.1 pence   
per share). The basic reported earnings per share was   
29.4 pence per share (2013: 31.9 pence per share).
Acquisitions and disposals
During 2014, Vitec acquired three businesses and disposed  
of one:
In March 2014, Vitec acquired the assets of the Speciality 
Cameras Division of SIS Outside Broadcasts Limited (SIS) 
for a cash consideration of £1.8 million. There is a potential 
contingent consideration of up to £1.4 million that is 
dependent on demanding revenue targets for certain future 
events by 2017.
In October 2014, the Group acquired Autocue Group  
Limited for a net cash consideration of £6.1 million.   
We are in the process of agreeing the post-completion 
adjustments to finalise the net consideration under the   
terms of this transaction.
In December 2014, the Group acquired the net assets of 
SmallHD in the US for an initial cash consideration of   
$4.6 million (£2.9 million). We are in the process of finalising the 
post-completion adjustments to agree the net consideration 
under the terms of this transaction. There is a potential 
contingent consideration of up to a further $25.4 million  
(£16.3 million) that is dependent upon the achievement against 
stretching EBITDA targets over a two and a half year period  
to 30 June 2017.
In November 2014, the Group sold its loss-making IMT 
business, based in the US. The disposal enables management 
to place greater focus on opportunities in the Group’s core 
Broadcast and Photographic activities. A loss of £4.0 million 
arose on disposal after taking into account exit costs together 
with the net assets disposed (£9.5 million) offset by cash 
consideration (£0.3 million) and the previously recorded foreign 
exchange gain that has been recycled to the income statement 
(£5.2 million). The total net cash outflow, after exit costs, is 
expected to be £3.8 million of which £1.3 million was paid in 
the period. The remaining £2.5 million, of which £1.8 million 
relates to an onerous lease provision, is expected to be paid 
by 2016.
Restructuring costs
In 2014 there was a restructuring charge of £2.7 million   
(2013: £11.4 million) relating to activities to streamline our 
operations and improve our processes. This includes the 
completion of the projects announced in 2013, which we 
delivered in line with our plans. In addition we have taken the 
decision to fully integrate the camera bags business into our 
other Photographic activities, which will be completed in 2015. 
The year-on-year benefit of these restructuring plans to  
our profitability in 2014 was £4.0 million (2013: £6.2 million).  
Cash outflows relating to restructuring were £3.2 million  
in the year (2013: £7.9 million).
Strategic Report 22 The Vitec Group plc
Financial Review continued
Charges associated with acquired businesses
The 2014 charges relate to the Group’s acquisition activities  
and amortisation of previously acquired intangibles. 
The amortisation of acquired intangibles of £3.4 million   
(2013: £2.6 million) related to: Manfrotto Lighting (formerly 
Lastolite) acquired in March 2011; Haigh-Farr acquired in 
December 2011; Camera Corps acquired in April 2012;  
Teradek acquired in August 2013; SIS acquired in March  
2014; and Autocue acquired in October 2014.
Transaction costs of £0.9 million were incurred in relation  
to the acquisitions of SIS, Autocue and SmallHD   
(2013: £0.4 million in relation to the acquisition of Teradek). 
Contingent consideration of £4.2 million ($7.0 million) was 
accrued during the year to be paid to the previous owners 
of Teradek in 2015 in relation to the business’s performance 
in 2014 and is subject to final agreement. The business has 
delivered strong growth in the year and has performed ahead 
of our pre-acquisition expectations. In 2013, £0.8 million was 
accrued to be paid to the previous owners of Haigh-Farr.
Cash flow and net debt 
Cash generated from operating activities was £42.0 million 
(2013: £52.4 million) with the Group maintaining a focus on  
cash generation. 
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators to 
manage cash including the percentage of operating cash 
flow
#
 generated from operating profit*, the percentage working 
capital to sales, inventory days, trade receivable days and 
trade payable days. Inventory, trade receivable and trade 
payable days are stated at year end balances; inventory and 
trade payable days are based on Q4 cost of sales (excluding 
exchange gains/losses) while trade receivable days are based 
on Q4 revenue. 
The operating profit* into operating cash flow
#
 conversion at 
73% is lower than the very strong 105% conversion achieved 
in 2013. This mainly reflects the timing of cash flows, with 89% 
cash conversion over the last two years consistent with our 
established track record for strong cash generation.
The working capital to sales metric has increased to 17.9%  
(31 December 2013: 16.5%) and overall working capital 
increased by £6.9 million (2013: £8.6 million decrease).
Inventory increased by £2.1 million (2013: £4.9 million decrease) 
to £55.0 million at the year end, reflecting higher activity levels. 
Inventory days decreased to 100 days (2013: 106 days).
Trade receivables days increased to 41 days (2013: 39 days), 
reflecting the timing of sales. Trade and other receivables 
increased by £2.7 million accordingly (2013: £1.8 million 
decrease) and the ageing remained well controlled and in  
line with prior year.
Trade payable days remain at 49 days (2013: 49 days). There 
was a £2.1 million overall decrease in trade and other payables 
(2013: £3.1 million increase) including lower bonus and 
commission accruals.
Capital expenditure, including £4.7 million of software and 
capitalised development costs (2013: £3.4 million), totalled 
£22.2 million (2013: £22.7 million), of which £12.7 million  
(2013: £11.8 million) related to rental assets. This was partly 
financed by the proceeds from rental asset disposals of  
£5.0 million (2013: £3.5 million) which included the disposal  
of some specific assets acquired for the Sochi Winter Olympics. 
Overall capital expenditure was equivalent to 1.4 times 
depreciation
(1)
 (2013: 1.6 times) and included investments  
in manufacturing processes and production tooling.
The net tax paid in 2014 of £3.5 million was lower than the  
£8.5 million paid in 2013 due to the level of tax charge and 
timing of tax payments.
As a result, free cash inflow
+
 decreased by £3.2 million to  
£18.2 million (2013: £21.4 million).
Free cash flow
+
    
 2014  2013 
 £m  £m
Operating profit* 38.8 39.5
Depreciation
(1)
 16.1 14.3
Changes in working capital (6.9) 8.6
Restructuring costs (2013 plans) (3.2) (7.9)
Other adjustments
(2)
 (2.8) (2.1)
Cash generated from operating activities 42.0 52.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (17.5) (19.3)
Capitalisation of software and development costs (4.7) (3.4)
Proceeds from sale of property,  
plant and equipment and software 5.2 3.8 
Interest paid (3.3) (3.6)
Tax paid (3.5) (8.5)
Free cash flow
+
 18.2 21.4
*
    Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
+
    Cash generated from operating activities after net capital expenditure, net 
interest and tax paid.
(1) 
  Includes depreciation and amortisation of capitalised development costs.
(2)
   Includes change in provisions, share based charge, gain on disposal of 
property, plant and equipment, fair value derivatives and transaction costs 
relating to acquisitions. 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
There was a £13.3 million net cash outflow relating to 
acquisitions during the year (2013: £8.5 million). In 2014 there 
was also a cash outflow of £1.3 million relating to the disposal 
of IMT. Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £10.3 million 
(2013: £9.8 million) and there was a net cash outflow in 
respect of shares purchased and issued of £0.6 million   
(2013: £1.1 million). The net cash outflow for the Group was 
£7.3 million (2013: £2.0 million inflow) which, after £2.1 million 
adverse exchange (2013: £0.2 million favourable), increased 
the net debt to £70.9 million (2013: £61.5 million).
Treasury
Vitec manages its financing, hedging and tax planning activities 
centrally to ensure that the Group has an appropriate structure 
to support its geographically diverse business. It has clearly 
defined policies and procedures with any substantial changes 
to the financial structure of the Group, or to its treasury practice, 
referred to the Board for approval. The Group operates strict 
controls over all treasury transactions including clearly defined 
currency hedging processes to reduce risks from volatility in 
exchange rates. 
The Group is hedging a portion of its forecast future foreign 
currency transactions to reduce the volatility from changes  
in exchange rates. Our main exposure relates to the US Dollar 
and the table below summarises the contracts held as at  
31 December 2014. 
The Group does not hedge the translation of its foreign currency 
profits. A portion of the Group’s foreign currency net assets are 
hedged using the Group’s borrowing facilities.
Financing activities 
The Group’s principal financing facility is a £100 million   
five year multi-currency revolving credit facility involving five 
relationship banks, expiring on 19 July 2017. At the end   
of December 2014, £45.8 million (2013: £44.2 million) of  
the facility was utilised.
The Group has a $50 million (£32.1 million) private placement 
facility which has been drawn down in two tranches of   
$25 million each. This financing has a combined fixed interest 
rate of 4.77% and is due for repayment on 11 May 2017.
The Group therefore has a total of £132.1 million of committed 
facilities at the year end with drawings of £77.9 million   
(31 December 2013: £74.4 million).
The average cost of borrowing for the year which includes 
interest payable, commitment fees and amortisation of set-up 
charges was 4.3% (2013: 4.4%) reflecting an interest cost of 
£3.6 million (2013: £3.6 million). 
The Board has maintained an appropriate capital structure 
without exposing the Group to unnecessary levels of risk and 
Vitec has operated comfortably within its loan covenants  
during 2014.
Foreign exchange
2014 operating profit* included a £3.5 million net adverse 
foreign exchange effect after hedging, mainly due to less 
favourable £/$ and £/f rates when compared to 2013. 
Dividend 
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 14.7 pence 
per share amounting to £6.5 million (2013: 14.1 pence per 
share, amounting to £6.2 million). The dividend, subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM, will be paid on Friday, 15 May 
2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
Friday, 17 April 2015. This will bring the total dividend for the 
year to 24.0 pence per share (up 4.3%). 
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
24 February 2015
Strategic Report
72
68
64
60
56
52
48
44
40
36 £61.5m (£18.2m)
Free  
cash flow
(£m)
Transactions 
in own  
shares
Exchange
movements
31 Dec 
2013
Net
debt
31 Dec 
2014
Net
debt
Dividends
Acquisitions 
& Disposals
£10.3m £14.6m £0.6m £2.1m £70.9m
 
  
  Average   Average 
 December rate of December rate of 
 2014 contracts 2013 contracts
US Dollars sold 
for Euros    
Forward contracts $36.0m 1.33 $56.2m 1.32
US Dollars sold 
for Sterling    
Forward contracts $14.8m 1.62 $13.5m 1.56
Currency hedging Net debt 24 The Vitec Group plc
Broadcast Division
**
The Broadcast Division (previously 
presented as the Videocom and 
Services Divisions) specialises  
in the supply of high-quality 
broadcast equipment principally 
for professionals engaged in 
producing video content for   
the global media industries: 
broadcast, film and live events. 
This equipment is also supplied  
to meet the growing demand  
from independent content 
creators and provides broadcast 
equipment rental and technical 
support to television production 
teams and film crews. It also 
provides premium services 
including equipment rental   
and technical solutions to TV 
production teams and film crews. 
It offers a complete one-stop 
solution for producers globally, 
enabling customers to deliver   
the most demanding projects. 
This enables Vitec to closely 
monitor changes in technology 
and to showcase our products. 
The Division’s strategy is to focus  
on events where higher levels   
of service are most needed.
Operations 
Revenue for 2014 was £171.1 million, 
excluding IMT, an increase of 6.3% on 
prior year. On a constant exchange rate 
basis, revenue was up 11.9% and was 
4.5% higher organically. Operating profit* 
improved by £1.8 million after excluding 
the £1.3 million loss* recorded by IMT in 
2014 (2013: £0.0 million). The operating 
profit* increased by 5.2% organically. The 
Division benefited from the inclusion of a 
strong performance at Teradek and a 
contribution from supporting the Sochi 
Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup. 
Restructuring activities were completed to 
plan, including the relocation of certain UK 
manufacturing processes to Costa Rica.
Our sales of broadcast equipment 
benefited from the Sochi Winter Olympics 
and strong sales of our Teradek wireless 
products. The Teradek business that we 
acquired in August 2013 continues to 
develop innovative products, including the 
new Bolt wireless transmitter which has 
been selling well. On an organic constant 
currency basis, broadcast equipment sales 
were down 2.2% but operating profit*  
was in line with the prior year.
Our prompter business also performed 
well and will include a contribution from  
the Autocue brand going forward. In 
camera supports we experienced a lower 
level of investment by studios in larger 
camera supports, although our smaller 
products continued to perform in line with 
our expectations. Our battery business 
experienced a lower level of activity but 
should benefit from the new ranges of 
products launched at the end of 2014. 
Profitability remained strong and reflected 
the benefit of previous restructuring and 
continued cost control activities. 
A strong performance from the equipment 
rental and technical support business 
included supporting the Sochi Winter 
Olympics, the FIFA World Cup and an 
increase in our underlying rentals business 
for other major events. We have also 
supported a number of improvements  
in the infrastructure of NFL stadiums 
including player positioning systems.   
We are pleased with progress as we 
concentrate on driving sales and securing 
attractive pricing for our premium services. 
The profitability of the business is also 
benefiting from improving asset utilisation 
by acquiring appropriate assets and 
disposing of under-utilised assets,   
and continuing to manage the cost   
base tightly. 
These activities were previously presented 
separately as the Videocom and Services 
Divisions, but are now managed and 
reported as one Division. 
The Division included the non-core IMT 
business until its disposal in November 
2014. The performance of the Division 
excluding IMT is summarised below. IMT 
recorded an operating loss* of £1.3 million 
in 2014 on revenue of £7.9 million (2013: 
£0.0 million operating profit* on revenue  
of £14.0 million).
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. 
** Figures in this section exclude the IMT business that was disposed in 2014.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£160.9m
£19.4m
12.1%
£171.1m
£21.2m
12.4%
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£171.1m
£21.2m
12.4%
Up  
9.3%
Up  
6.3%
Up  
30 bps
2014
2014
2014
2013
2013
2013 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Vitec in action
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action
Autocue acquisition enhances 
teleprompting offering 
The recent acquisition of leading teleprompter 
provider Autocue reinforces our ongoing 
commitment to providing customers with   
a broader range of services and support.
Autocue is a long-established household 
name and is the broadcast industry’s largest 
teleprompter range provider. It has tens of 
thousands of users worldwide, ranging from 
independent content creators, schools and 
videographers, to high-end broadcasters   
like the BBC, CNN and NBC. 
Autocue complements Vitec’s existing 
teleprompter business, Autoscript, and we 
will continue to develop and support these 
premium brands.
SIS technology hits the competition 
for six 
SIS captures unique camera shots at major 
sporting events. An impressive example of  
this technology is the world’s only full HD 
Stump Cam.
As the only camera on the field of play, the 
Stump Cam gets cricket fans into the action 
by offering unique viewpoints while the camera 
can withstand direct cricket ball strikes.
Version three was released in 2014 and is 
the most compact version to date, housed 
completely within a regulation cricket stump. 
The cameras come in a range of lenses 
allowing for tight, wide or superwide shots and 
are included in almost every televised English 
domestic and international cricket match.
Big win with SmallHD
The addition of SmallHD to the Broadcast 
Division in December supplements our  
range of products targeted at broadcasters 
and the growing number of independent 
content creators.
Based in North Carolina, US, SmallHD 
pioneered the design and manufacture of 
rugged, future proof, high definition on-camera 
field monitors, used across the film making 
world to create exceptional images.
The acquisition complements Vitec’s existing 
video businesses, including Teradek, which 
serves a similar market and there is  
significant scope for SmallHD’s products   
to be sold through Vitec’s global sales   
and distributor network.
Victorious at major sporting events
Vitec has once again proved its unparalleled 
ability to help broadcasters cover large-scale, 
multi-venue events in the most efficient way. 
Tasked with supplying a premium service, 
Bexel helped broadcasters cover many major 
world sporting events including the Sochi 
Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup. 
Bexel utilised many of Vitec’s premium brands 
including Anton/Bauer, Autoscript, Litepanels, 
Sachtler, Teradek, Vinten, Vinten Radamec 
and Camera Corps to support the major 
broadcasters in providing exceptional footage 
of these events to millions of viewers.
Pre-planning and set-up begins several 
months earlier, with Bexel installing fibre-
optic cabling to establish robust HD signal 
infrastructure on site, and fitting out world-
class broadcast facilities with modern  
studios and custom-designed control rooms.
Anton/Bauer launches industry-
leading battery and charger series 
Specifically designed to power the modern 
digital cameras used by broadcasters, 
cinematographers and independent content 
creators, the latest Anton/Bauer Digital Battery 
Series and Performance Charger Series 
provide previously unseen levels of safety and 
performance at very competitive price points. 
Safety has been the primary design 
consideration, with the batteries featuring  
three levels of electronic safety, a honeycomb, 
dual-skinned case to isolate each cell and   
a crumple zone to protect against  
physical damage. 
The new ranges feature technology such   
as battery life-extending digital filtering, 
constant calibration for accurate fuel gauging, 
a cloud-based battery management system 
and efficient charging. Both are available in 
three stud Gold Mount and V-Mount 
attachment options to appeal to the  
European and Asian markets.
Bolt lighting up wireless video 
transmission
Teradek is a world leading provider of 
advanced wireless HD video encoders, 
decoders and transmission systems offering 
low-cost, easy-to-use solutions that facilitate 
the transmission of exceptional images.
The latest Bolt Pro series has a zero delay 
wireless video system which transmits 
uncompressed HD video at full fidelity across 
a line of sight range of up to 600 metres.   
An example of this at work was in the 
production of “The Sea of Trees”, an 
upcoming feature film starring Matthew 
McConaughey, where the latest Bolt Pro  
2000 model successfully transmitted a 
complex shoot in the middle of a dense  
forest to director, Gus Van Sant, and the 
production team.
Strategic Report 26 The Vitec Group plc
Photographic Division
The Photographic Division 
(previously described as the 
Imaging Division) provides 
premium photographic and 
video equipment to both 
professional and non-
professional users. The 
photographic and video 
equipment consists primarily  
of camera supports, tripods, 
camera bags, lighting 
supports, LED lights and 
lighting accessories. We  
also supply a range of tripods, 
bags, lighting and other 
photographic products to   
the consumer segment. 
Operations  
Revenue decreased by 7.3% to  
£130.9 million, and was 2.1% lower 
than prior year at constant exchange 
rates. Despite the decline in revenue, 
operating margin* increased by 20 bps 
to 14.4%, reflecting a continuing focus 
on cost control and the year-on-year 
benefits from the restructuring 
completed in 2013. At constant 
exchange rates, operating profit* 
increased by 4.8%, with operating 
margin* 100 bps higher.
Against a challenging market 
background, sales of our core camera 
supports performed well and we are 
particularly pleased with sales of new 
products including the BeFree and new 
190 tripod ranges. We continued to 
launch a number of new products 
including the Manfrotto Off Road range. 
Our premium Gitzo brand, including  
the new Gitzo Mountaineer tripod, 
performed strongly. We believe that  
we continue to outperform the 
Photographic market despite certain 
competitors’ products that we believe 
have infringed our patented  
technology and we are reviewing   
our options accordingly.
The camera bags market is largely 
driven by new camera sales and   
has been hardest hit by lower 
interchangeable lens camera sales over 
the last few years. Although this market 
remains competitive, we are pleased 
with sales of the Manfrotto branded 
range of camera bags which continued 
to gain market share. We have now 
launched these bags globally as our 
main bag brand. In light of the 
continuation of a challenging camera 
bags market, in December 2014 we 
decided to close our overseas bags 
facility and fully integrate it into our  
other Photographic business. This   
will be completed in early 2015. 
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses.
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£130.9m
£18.9m
14.4%
Down  
7.3%
Down  
6.0%
Up  
20 bps
Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
£141.2m
£20.1m
14.2%
£130.9m
£18.9m
14.4%
2014
2014
2014
2013
2013
2013 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Vitec in action
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action
Strategic Report
The perfect travel companion is now 
reliable, light and colourful 
With portability and style in mind, Manfrotto 
has evolved its BeFree range to include 
Carbon and Colour options. The BeFree 
Carbon has 100% carbon fibre legs 
guaranteeing lightness, durability and easy 
transportability. Weighing 20% less than   
the traditional aluminium designed BeFree,  
the Carbon model is still fast to set up, intuitive 
to use and provides the stability required   
to capture stunningly precise, sharp images. 
The launch of the BeFree Colour gave the 
range a splash of red, blue, grey and green  
to match the style and taste of many customer 
groups, adding eye-catching and attractive  
to the list of reliable qualities that come   
with the standard BeFree range. 
Manfrotto streamlines its  
bag offering 
Manfrotto has launched a premium range of 
photographic bags for both professional and 
hobby users. These bags incorporate the 
exclusive features of our Kata brand collection 
with the addition of an enhanced camera 
protection system. The innovative 3D 
shock-absorbing foam guarantees  
maximum equipment safety.
These Manfrotto-branded products are 
gaining market share and are our main   
bag brand.
Gitzo Mountaineer continues   
to evolve
When tripod pioneers Gitzo launched 
the original Mountaineer in 1994, it was 
the world’s first carbon fibre tripod. Gitzo 
continues to keep the tripod range at the 
cutting edge, redefining tripod technology 
with each new release. Their latest range in 
the Mountaineer series introduced a tripod 
with newly developed, innovative carbon 
eXact tubes. The new tubing optimises fibre 
composition for each tube size using large 
diameter High Modulus carbon fibre to make it 
stronger and stiffer, particularly in the narrower 
tubes used for the lower leg sections. 
Great things come in small packages
Using its wealth of expertise and industry 
knowledge, Manfrotto has designed and 
engineered a new set of tripods and 
monopods for the entry-level user market.  
The new Compact Collection features specially 
selected materials, colours and accessories 
that allow customers to easily achieve precise, 
shake-free images that are ready to be shared 
with the world. 
These products ensure that entry-level users 
quickly see improvements in their photographs 
and are more likely to purchase professional 
products from the Manfrotto range as their 
skills evolve. The Compact Collection replaces 
the old Compact and 390 series.
Compact engineering meets  
mighty performance 
Manfrotto has developed its most compact, 
precise and reliable three-way photographic 
head dedicated to amateur and professional 
photographers who want maximum precision 
in a compact size. 
The X-PRO 3-Way Head is designed to 
ensure portability by using retractable 
levers that can retract and fold down for 
transportation. It also provides guaranteed 
precision through friction controls that balance 
the weight of the camera equipment while 
being reliable and durable due to its light 
aluminium body that can hold up to eight 
times its weight.
Growing sales in Asia-Pacific
The Asia-Pacific market presents significant 
opportunities for growing sales of premium 
photographic equipment with its rapidly 
emerging middle class, growing economies 
and enjoyment of recording special occasions.
The Photographic Division has built its brands, 
customised its products and most importantly 
developed a talented local team of over 
50 employees in the region. This has been 
achieved by recruiting locally and relocating 
Group talent to share market intelligence, 
product knowledge and best practice to   
best serve local requirements and culture. 
The Division has successful subsidiaries in 
China, Hong Kong and Japan and leading 
strategic partnerships including South Korea, 
Taiwan, Singapore and Thailand. Manfrotto 
is a market leader in the region with growing 
market shares in both tripods and bags. 28 The Vitec Group plc
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility 
and has put in place a detailed Code of Business Conduct, 
Environmental Policy, and Health and Safety Policy setting a 
standard for all of our businesses and 1,900 employees 
worldwide. Each of these is available on our website and is 
central to our approach on corporate responsibility. The Board 
has delegated the co-ordination of our corporate responsibility 
efforts to me and through senior executives at a Group and 
Divisional level we focus our efforts on the areas of business 
ethics, environment, employees, and community and charitable 
donations. Our approach is flexible and pragmatic to reflect the 
size and scale of our operations and we focus our limited 
resources where necessary to comply with legal requirements. 
We regularly review progress against each of these areas,  
for example, on a monthly basis the Board and Operations 
Executive track health and safety performance and analyse 
accidents to learn important lessons in this vital area, adapting 
our policies, reporting structure and practices in light of our 
performance, experience and regulatory changes.
We have continued to build on the progress of 2013 in 2014. 
Notably we have improved the capture and reporting of our 
greenhouse gas emissions. Secondly, where we have acquired 
new businesses we have embedded our policies, values and 
processes regarding health and safety, our Code of Business 
Conduct and whistleblowing service to all employees to ensure 
that our values are understood and that employees clearly know 
what is expected of them in terms of behaviour and values. 
Thirdly, our health and safety efforts have continued and we 
have delivered a further improvement in reducing the number of 
accidents resulting in over three days’ absence. Finally we have 
maintained our FTSE4Good index membership recognising our 
commitment to environmental, social and governance matters. 
The Operations Executive receives regular updates on corporate 
responsibility issues from the Group Company Secretary and 
progress will continue to be monitored and reported on going 
forward. In turn, I report to the Board on our corporate 
responsibility initiatives.
The following pages describe our 2014 corporate responsibility 
activities organised in the following areas:
Our 2015 corporate responsibility plans include strengthening 
our business ethics with a recommunication of our Code of 
Business Conduct and whistleblowing service, and undertaking 
further training of our employees in this area. We will continue 
our review of health and safety procedures to improve working 
practices to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for 
all our employees and third parties on our sites. Notably, this will 
focus on near misses and lessons that can be learned. We will 
continue to focus on diversity, talent development and 
succession planning to ensure we have the best talent and 
resources to deliver on our strategic objectives. We will report  
in more detail on these in 2015’s Annual Report.  
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
We have continued to make real 
progress with corporate 
responsibility initiatives in 2014 
and confirm our commitment to a 
sustainable business model that 
ensures the long-term value of our 
business for Vitec’s stakeholders. 
We recognise that our reputation 
is key to Vitec’s continued 
success. This is underpinned by  
a Group-wide corporate 
responsibility programme with 
common shared values that are 
followed by all our employees in 
delivering our corporate purpose:
To provide vital products and services 
that support the capture and sharing  
of exceptional images. To do this we 
operate with the following values:
  >  Product excellence –   
everything we make and do is exceptional
  >  Creative solutions –    
we are constantly looking to break   
new ground
  >  Integrity –     
what you see is what you get
  >  Customer focus –    
we are nothing without our customers
  >  Collaboration –    
we work better when we work together
Environment
Page 30
Employees 
Page 32
Business Ethics 
Page 29
Community & 
Charitable Donations 
Page 36
Corporate Responsibility Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/responsibility
Corporate Responsibility
Continuing Progress with    
Corporate Responsibility  29 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Our Approach
The Board has implemented a robust governance 
framework including a Code of Business Conduct 
articulating our values, beliefs and behaviours that 
is communicated to all employees and business 
partners. Where appropriate we train our 
employees on key issues including bribery and 
corruption and promote a whistleblowing service 
as a back-up control.
Our Vision
To ensure our employees have a clear 
understanding of what is expected of them   
in conducting business in the right way with  
a common set of values. We expect our  
business partners to abide by standards   
that are compatible with our own.
Business Ethics
Code of Business Conduct Anti-bribery Whistleblowing service
Our Code of Business Conduct (“Code”) 
provides clear guidance to our 
employees on how they are expected  
to behave towards employees, suppliers, 
customers, shareholders and on our 
wider responsibility to the communities 
within which we operate. 
Our Code, which is available on our 
website, sets out our approach to 
business integrity including an express 
prohibition on bribery and kickbacks, 
guidance on gifts and hospitality, 
conflicts of interest, books and records, 
competition, share dealing, respect for 
the UN Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, respect for the individual and 
privacy, diversity, health and safety, 
environmental sustainability, business 
partners, charitable donations and a 
clear prohibition on political donations.
Our Code has been communicated to  
all employees including new employees 
on joining the Group. Employees of 
businesses we acquired in 2014 (SIS, 
Autocue and SmallHD) were also 
provided with a copy of our Code.   
All employees are expected to comply 
with our Code and any violations of it  
are to be reported to local management 
or the Group Company Secretary   
for investigation.
In 2015 we plan to recommunicate our 
Code to all our employees worldwide  
to ensure that it remains visible and   
is universally understood.
We operate an independent 
whistleblowing service in conjunction 
with Expolink. This service enables any 
employee or third party who feels that 
the normal reporting channels through 
line management are not appropriate,  
to report confidentially on any issues 
around dishonesty, fraud, bribery, 
malpractice, bullying, unfair treatment, 
unsafe working practices or other  
Code contraventions. 
In accordance with a clearly agreed 
documented procedure, all such reports 
are notified to the Group Company 
Secretary, the Group Chief Executive  
and the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, and are investigated 
independently by senior management 
who are not connected to the report. 
The outcome of investigations is 
reported to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. All whistleblowing reports 
are independently investigated with 
remedial action taken where necessary.  
The service has been communicated  
to all our employees with posters 
prominently visible at all sites, a letter 
from the Group Chief Executive and   
a letter from Expolink explaining the 
service to ensure that it remains visible 
and understood. The service has been 
communicated to all new employees 
including those employees of newly 
acquired businesses. During 2014   
we received one whistleblowing report. 
It is our intention to recommunicate  
the whistleblowing service to all 
employees in 2015 to ensure that it 
remains prominent and understood   
by employees.
We have continued with the 
development of our employees’ 
understanding of anti-bribery and 
corruption as reflected in our Code.   
All senior and customer-facing new 
starters with the Group (including senior 
employees joining through the recent 
acquisitions of SIS, Autocue and 
SmallHD) have completed an online 
training module (also available in Italian, 
German and Japanese) including the 
Board of Directors, Operations 
Executive, senior executives and 
customer-facing employees covering 
anti-bribery and corruption. All 
participants were required to complete 
the module and to take a test on the 
issues covered by the training. 
Our Code has been communicated on  
a risk-based approach to our major 
suppliers, customers, agents and 
distributors. We have either secured  
their agreement with the terms of our 
Code or secured evidence of their own 
ethics procedures including an express 
prohibition on bribery. Agents and 
distributors have formal agreements   
in place which clearly prohibit bribery 
and set out our expectation on 
behaviour and values. We further 
enhanced due diligence on major 
customers and suppliers with a more 
detailed screening of backgrounds using 
a third party provider focusing on 
reputational risk. We are now in the 
process of standardising due diligence 
with a common third party questionnaire.
Corporate Responsibility 30 The Vitec Group plc
Electricity (MWh) Gas (MWh)
27.15
2014
11,480
2014
2013
11,521
Water (cubic metres)
2014
5,906
2013
6,574 27.24*
2013
Actual electricity, gas and water usage in 2014 and 2013 
Our Vision
To ensure our decision making and operations  
are mindful of the environment while enhancing 
our competitiveness.
Our Approach
We are creating a culture that adopts 
technologies, materials and processes to ensure 
we minimise our impact on the environment.
Environment
Vitec’s products and processes Vitec’s green practices
We continue to implement initiatives aimed at sustaining  
and protecting the environment, in the areas of research  
and development, production, packaging and waste disposal.
Our products and services have a low impact on the 
environment. We use low-hazard materials, we minimise the  
use of resources during the manufacturing process and we 
search for materials that are sustainable and can be recycled 
and reused. Our efforts and environmental awareness have 
continued to evolve, not only to comply with regulations but  
also to make our business better. By putting in place a proper 
environmental management system we are reducing operating 
costs and business risks, while ensuring sustainability.   
For example, Manfrotto continually reviews its operations  
and standards regarding the environment. Packaging for  
its products and Manfrotto’s suppliers strictly adhere to the 
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals (“REACH”) regulations. These regulations cover  
the production and use of some 143,000 chemical substances 
and their potential impacts on both human health and the 
environment. Manfrotto reviews, reduces and reports on the  
use of packaging every three months and notable efforts have 
been made to reduce the use of Styrofoam in packaging that  
is harmful to the environment.
An example of how innovation and technology play a critical role 
in helping reduce the impact on the environment is LED lighting, 
which is produced by Litepanels and Manfrotto. LED technology 
has significant benefits over traditional lighting as LED lights last 
ten times longer than a regular incandescent bulb and are four 
times more energy efficient. The dramatic cut in the amount of 
energy used translates to financial savings for users along with 
creating a cleaner environment. 
Corporate Responsibility
As part of our commitment to responsible business practices, 
we have continued initiatives aimed at reducing energy, paper 
and water use, encouraging recycling and proper waste 
disposal, and promoting a culture of sustainability among  
our employees.
We monitor and track our usage of electricity, gas and water 
across our manufacturing, warehouse and administrative sites 
and make efforts, where possible, to reduce our usage both  
to reduce costs and the impact on the environment. Many 
buildings within the Group have timer and motion sensors  
for lighting to save on electricity usage. Other buildings have 
programmable thermostats that are centrally managed to 
optimise the building’s heating and cooling needs, therefore 
maintaining a steady temperature. 
The electricity contracts with Green Certificates at the Italian  
sites were renewed in 2014, confirming the commitment to  
use energy generated by renewable sources. 
The Group’s electricity, gas and water usage per £million  
of Group revenue over the last five years is set out on the 
following page. 
The Photographic Division’s sites in Bassano and Feltre in Italy 
and the Broadcast Division’s site in Shelton in the US had their 
ISO 14001 status confirmed in 2014, showing that these 
operations have designed and implemented effective 
environmental management systems. 
Environmental Policy online 
www.vitecgroup.com/environmental_policy
* The figure for 2013 has been re-stated following receipt of final invoices for consumption during 2013 that were not available at the time of publication of the 2013 Annual Report 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Gas - MWh / £m Group revenue
30.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
2010 2011
25.1
2012
20.3
Water - cubic metres / £m Group revenue
0.12
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
2010
0.10
2011
0.08
2012
0.08
2013
0.09 0.09
2014
Electricity - MWh / £m Group revenue
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
2010 2011
37.5
2012
35.2
2013
35.7
2014
36.5 36.4
2013
18.7
2014
20.8
18.7
The table below shows the quantities of materials that were 
recycled in 2014 (2013 are shown in brackets) at our major 
manufacturing sites in the UK, Italy and Costa Rica. All 
measurements are in kilograms.
The recycling largely covers the cost of waste management at 
our main manufacturing sites while similar recycling initiatives  
are carried out at our smaller manufacturing sites. Offices and 
manufacturing sites throughout the Group have waste recycling 
points to enable the sorting of waste into different recycling 
streams (paper, glass, plastics, ink toners and batteries). 
This Annual Report is produced using vegetable-based inks  
and materials approved by The Forest Stewardship Council.  
We also encourage our shareholders to receive the Annual 
Report electronically thereby saving on production and 
distribution resources and costs.
Most of the Group’s operating sites including the Head Office, 
Divisional head offices and business units have video conference 
facilities in place enabling employees to video conference with 
both internal and external parties, reducing the need for 
business travel.
In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors 
Reports) Regulations and the requirement to report on 
greenhouse gas emissions from 1 October 2013, we   
have developed processes to accurately capture and report  
all material Scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined by the 
Greenhouse Gas protocol as of 31 December 2014. We have 
applied the financial control basis for our reporting boundary. 
These emissions have been recorded at 20 of our major 
operating sites in the 12 months to 30 September 2014,   
and arise from on-site energy use and any fugitive emissions, 
and transport from owned vehicles. We have identified these 
major operating sites as the material sites for the Group for this 
requirement as it covers our principal sites including: Feltre, Italy; 
Bury St Edmunds, UK; Cartago, Costa Rica; Burbank, US; 
Mount Olive, US; Ashby-de-la-Zouch, UK; and Shelton, US. 
These sites account for over 95% of the Group by revenue.  
We have excluded our smaller sites as their size and scale of 
operations are not material with respect to their Scope 1 and  
2 emissions. For this reporting year we have included Teradek 
that was acquired in August 2013 but was excluded from the 
2013 year end numbers. As well as enabling the reporting of 
emissions, this information will enable us to identify potential 
cost savings going forward.
Our most significant emissions arise from the use of electricity 
which makes up all our Scope 2 emissions. Approximately  
two thirds of our Scope 1 emissions arise from the use of natural 
gas with the remainder mostly arising from transport fuel. All our 
emissions have been calculated using the latest Defra 
conversion factors available at www.gov.uk/measuring-and-
reporting-environmental-impacts-guidance-for-businesses.
We have selected a reporting date of 30 September each year 
to enable accurate data to be collated to compile the table 
above in time for inclusion in this Annual Report. We have 
conducted an internal review to check the completeness  
and accuracy of the reported data. 
Potential areas of saving have been identified in our larger 
production sites in the UK, Italy and Costa Rica. These include 
energy efficient lighting, staff awareness, regular maintenance 
programmes, optimisation of machinery and equipment switch 
off, and optimisation of control around air conditioning. 
Associated capital requirements and payback periods   
will be assessed as opportunities arise to identify the best 
opportunities to pursue, balancing the need to deliver on  
other business priorities in 2015 and beyond.
Feltre, Italy Bury St Edmunds, UK Cartago, Costa Rica
Aluminium – 
57,389 (73,616)
Aluminium – 
26,620 (30,910)
Aluminium – 
29,480 (33,876)
Iron and Steel – 
40,703 (32,622)
Steel – 
5,660 (4,200)
Steel – 
9,810 (7,357)
Paper and cardboard – 
85,600 (70,020)
Paper and cardboard – 
33,200 (41,300)
Paper and cardboard – 
26,130 (18,600)
Plastic – 
18,101 (11,394)
Plastic – 
1,500 (500)
Plastic – 
4,610 (3,849)
Wood – 
9,560 (13,030)
Wood – 
14,000 (18,000)
Carbon fibre – 
1,390 (344)
Carbon fibre – 
1,770 (1,180)
Brass – 
6,440 (7,187)
Magnesium – 
980 (1,142)
Copper, Bronze and 
Brass – 
380 (80)
General Waste – 
18,850 (21,750)
Iron – 
3,090 (1,179)
Our electricity, gas and water usage based on usage per £million of Group revenue 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the period from 1 October 
2013 to 30 September 2014 (Tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent)
 2014 2013
Scope 1 emissions  1,653 1,713
Scope 2 emissions 4,923 4,389
Total gross emissions 6,576 6,102
Total carbon emissions per 
£m of Group revenue  21.2 19.3
Corporate Responsibility 32 The Vitec Group plc
There have been no work related fatalities since the Group 
began collating health and safety statistics in 2002.
The Operations Executive reviews health and safety 
performance every month, discussing any incidents of note, 
sharing best practice initiatives and supports the Divisions in  
the management of local health and safety committees and  
the implementation of regular training activity. The Group Chief 
Executive updates the Board regularly on health and safety 
performance by way of monthly reports and verbal updates  
at Board meetings. 
Our people are a key asset for the Group 
Our employees are critical to our success. Passionate, 
motivated and skilled employees in a good working environment 
directly contribute to our strategy, performance and reputation.
In 2014 we continued to focus time and resource on our 
employees, including initiatives on subjects such as wellbeing, 
engagement, diversity, employee benefits and training events.
As an example, our site in Cartago, Costa Rica has received  
an award from Great Place to Work
®
 recognising the good 
employment practices in the business. The award recognises 
five specific areas of employee satisfaction as measured by  
an all-employee survey: credibility, respect, impartiality, pride  
and partnership. 
Health and Safety 
The provision of a healthy, safe and productive work 
environment for all our employees is a priority for Vitec, for  
which all our management and employees are responsible. 
We have continued to impress the need for excellent health  
and safety procedures in compliance with the Group’s Health 
and Safety Policy, which is available on our website. This policy 
sets the Group-wide guidelines for the prevention of accidents 
and work-related ill-health and provides guidance for the 
adequate control of health and safety risks arising from work-
related accidents. 
All accidents and near misses, whether they result in absence 
from work or not, are reported with remedial action identified 
and implemented to prevent such occurrences in the future. 
Reporting is prompt and any accident resulting in over three 
days’ absence is reported to senior Divisional management  
as well as the Group Chief Executive within 24 hours. Our  
eight year accident record is shown opposite, which details  
the number of accidents resulting in over three days’ absence 
from work across the Group. This demonstrates continued 
improvement in this area across the Group’s operations and  
we will continue to develop our practices to deliver further 
improvements in this important area.
Our Approach
We are attracting and engaging a committed 
workforce, ensuring diversity and non-
discrimination. Vitec is committed to respecting 
the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Vision
Be a responsible employer providing attractive 
opportunities for our people to develop.
Employees
Corporate Responsibility
4 accidents
representing 211 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,898 
2013
1  accident
representing 53 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,876 
2014
2012
6 accidents
representing 288 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,085
2011
8 accidents
representing  390 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,052
2010
10 accidents
representing  525 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,907
2009
10 accidents
representing  511 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 1,957
2008
16 accidents
representing  723 accidents per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,214
2007
20 accidents
representing 976 per 100,000 employees
Average number of employees – 2,049
Our eight year accident record  33 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The Broadcast site in Cartago, Costa Rica, 
receiving its Great Place to Work award.
The 2014 Sharesave invitation was offered to 
employees in six countries. 
Employees receive training on health and safety procedures 
that are appropriate to their line of work and environment.  
This may, for example, involve training in warehouse 
operations, working at heights, fire safety or more general 
initiatives to make employees aware of the dangers that can  
be encountered in the execution of their various duties.   
Within each of the Group’s Divisions separate assessment  
and training appropriate to operations is carried out for health 
and safety. For example, the Photographic sites at Bassano 
and Feltre, Italy, had their OHSAS 18001 occupational health 
and safety certification confirmed in 2014. Employees are 
regularly reminded of the need to work safely with posters on 
notice boards at all sites. Health and Safety Committees at all 
major sites hold regular meetings to review safety, ensure that 
operating practices are safe and address potential safety 
concerns. At the Photographic manufacturing sites in Feltre, 
Italy and Ashby-de-la-Zouch, UK, a procedure has been set  
up to observe employees’ health and safety behaviour in the 
workplace. Using an industrial safety management approach, 
the procedure checks employees’ working practices are 
compliant with standards and procedures related to personal 
protective equipment, tools, substances, machinery, handling 
and other activities and enables feedback to be given to avoid 
workplace accidents. In 2014 a total of 27,239 actions of work 
were observed at both sites with an average of 99.5 per cent 
compliance with safe working practices.
The site at Bury St Edmunds, UK and Cartago, Costa Rica  
in 2014 have further been awarded the OHSAS 18001 
occupational health and safety accreditation. This confirms  
that the sites have in place a robust health and safety 
management system with policies, procedures and controls 
needed to achieve the best possible working conditions, 
aligned to internationally recognised best practice.
Engagement
We aim to provide our employees with an engaging and 
stimulating environment where they are encouraged to learn 
and develop. We communicate with our employees on a 
regular basis, keeping them informed of business performance 
at a Group, Divisional and business unit level. Reflecting  
the diverse global nature of our employees we use multiple 
channels and a variety of media to communicate with them. 
A business overview, focusing on results and key events,  
is shared with all employees via two annual, global 
communication videos presented by the Group   
Chief Executive. 
In November 2014 several regional presentations were held  
in the US (West Coast and East Coast), Italy, UK and China, 
involving the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
Divisional management and senior managers across the Group 
covering strategy, results and achievements. This local format 
enabled approximately 600 employees to attend and hear 
first-hand from the Group Chief Executive updates on key 
messages and core business priorities. 
Alongside Group-wide communications, employees receive 
briefings on performance and business issues on a regular 
basis from Divisional and business unit senior management. 
This takes the form of internal announcements, breakfast 
meetings with Divisional management, quarterly business 
updates via video and intranet sites. 
As an example of the progress made within Divisional 
communications, during 2014 the Photographic Division 
developed and launched a division-wide intranet to which  
all employees are directed when opening a web browser.  
The site contains divisional news, policies, organisation 
structure charts, key contacts and more. The Broadcast 
Division is due to launch its intranet in 2015 and a working 
group has been formed to consolidate both intranets into a 
group-wide intranet during 2015. The Broadcast Division has 
also consolidated and increased its internal communications 
by launching a new internal portal “Informed”, which focuses 
on product news and sales team resources and is supported 
by a weekly digital newsletter.
Employees are also sent local communications, with each 
Division delivering its own employee newsletter: “Snapshot” 
within the Photographic Division is published quarterly and 
“The View” within the Broadcast Division.
We further communicate with our employees through our 
Group website. This contains a section on Working at Vitec 
including career opportunities throughout the Group.
Wellbeing 
Good3
The Good3 project, launched in 2011 by the Group’s 
Photographic Division, continued in 2014 with more initiatives 
undertaken at several sites. 
The programme was developed to help employees stay 
healthy, by providing them with training and tools to develop 
good habits in the areas of diet, exercise and the prevention  
of illnesses. One example includes discounted gym 
memberships at the principal Italian sites of Bassano and Feltre 
and Manfrotto’s US distribution business based in New Jersey. 
Healthy eating initiatives also continued to be promoted with  
a Good3 discounted healthy product line included within site 
vending machines. 
Stephen Bird briefs employees at the 2014 
regional management presentations.
Corporate Responsibility 34 The Vitec Group plc
The focus on educating employees to enable them to make 
healthy decisions is also active within the Broadcast Division. 
Initiatives across the globe include occupational health services 
and talks and the cycle to work scheme under the Government’s 
cycle initiative in the UK, annual flu vaccinations, healthy eating, 
health and safety initiatives and exercise programmes across the 
UK, US and Costa Rica. 
Working environment 
We continue to invest in improving the work environment for  
our employees, creating contemporary spaces with upgraded 
technology and communication systems that enable 
collaboration and personal efficiency. We expanded our 
manufacturing operations in Cartago, Costa Rica and relocated 
several of our US businesses into new sites improving the 
working environment and working efficiencies.
Improving manufacturing quality and operational excellence 
have been a key focus at Bury St Edmunds, UK. A Continuous 
Improvement Proactive Quality Assurance (CIPQA) team has 
been established and we continue to develop individuals’ skills 
at the site through additional training. To build on the culture  
of improvement during 2015, 16 employees will be trained as 
“Green Belts” to work on removing waste from our processes.
We have also listened to and responded to our employees’ 
views. 2014 has seen further promotion of family friendly 
working with a focus on eliminating negative work patterns  
and stress. Initiatives linked to this have included flexible working 
opportunities for all Broadcast UK employees and the launch  
of the US East Coast summer hours programme, where 
employees were able to adjust their working hours during the 
week and finish early each Friday. Within the Photographic 
Division, a supplementary labour agreement has presented  
new flexible working opportunities and an improved working 
environment for employees, with a specific focus on women  
in terms of work/life balance.
Benefits 
We employ around 1,900 employees in 12 countries who  
are managed in accordance with local employment legislation, 
policies and our organisational values. Attracting the talent  
we need and retaining their commitment to our organisation  
in all of the territories we operate in has required the organisation 
to commence an assertive approach to our benefits packages, 
to support our employees and remain competitive in a global 
market where talent is in short supply. 
In the US our employees participate in a consolidated Health 
Benefits Plan that provides a valued level of healthcare.   
Similar plans are offered to employees in other territories.
Employees are also given the option to join pension plans 
appropriate to local markets. In the UK this involves a Company 
approved pension plan with minimum employer and employee 
contributions and in the US a 401k plan. In the UK during 2014 
we successfully implemented auto-enrolment for those 
employees who had not already joined the Company pension 
plan with a staging date of 1 April 2014. Just under 100 
employees were auto-enrolled into a Company pension 
arrangement with Standard Life and all employees in the UK, 
except for those who have expressly opted out, are now in  
a qualifying pension plan.
All employees in the UK, US, Italy, Costa Rica, France and 
Germany are given the opportunity to join an all-employee 
Sharesave scheme on an annual basis, enabling the employee  
to save to purchase shares in the Company at a discounted rate. 
Employees save a fixed monthly amount of up to £350 (or $500 
in the US or foreign currency equivalent in other territories) over  
a fixed term (usually three years but two years in the US) with the 
option to purchase a fixed number of shares at a discount of  
up to 20% on the prevailing share price at the time of the offer. 
Participation in the Sharesave scheme is good, with the following 
levels achieved in 2014:
We plan to continue offering Sharesave to our employees in 
future years. 
The Photographic Division’s Italian sites offer employees a Vitec 
Shopping Card that allows employees to benefit from special 
prices on food, drink, travel, clothing, sport, cinema and 
medicine through agreements with local retailers. These 
discounts of up to 50% help employees to increase their 
purchasing power. 
Capability and development
Learning and development activity continued to take place in 
our businesses in accordance with personal development plans, 
results of annual performance appraisals and organisational 
need. The Organisation and Talent Review (OTR) has continued 
to be developed to fully understand the organisation’s capacity 
and capability for achieving its strategic plans. The OTR enables 
the Operations Executive to create the leadership pipeline for  
its critical roles and specify the development requirements to  
be offered to employees. 
The performance appraisal process, in operation in both 
Divisions, provides the opportunity for the employee to discuss 
current performance and future potential with their line manager 
in an objective and positive manner. The development needs 
identified by the discussions will continue to be used to enhance 
the global programme of talent development for release more 
widely across the Group. 
In 2014, the Photographic Division developed a new 
performance appraisal process and system for all its employees. 
The new system is designed to set an employee’s annual 
objectives, aligning them to individuals’ competencies and  
the values and strategic priorities of the business. The system 
was developed with the collaboration of trade unions and Pisa 
University and will be launched to all employees in the Division  
in 2015. The new system will enable the business to manage 
employees’ performance in a fair and inclusive way with a 
structure that is common across the Division, enabling career 
development that is aligned to the strategic objectives of  
the business.
Targeted learning and development activities have continued 
within the Divisions. In 2014, Broadcast continued its Training 
Academy, delivering product and sales training across all brands 
to employees at three training academy sites in Germany,  
the UK and the US. Individual and departmental training 
Country Number
of eligible 
employees
Number of 
accounts 
opened
Take-up
US 439 207 47%
UK 345 145 42%
Italy 501 29 6%
Germany 50 25 50%
Costa Rica 198 19 10%
France 14 8 57%
Sharesave participation in 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
programmes have also been launched to increase capabilities 
in sales, engineering and management. This is a long-term 
initiative for the Division with a calendar of training and 
supporting activity planned for 2015. The UK site at Bury  
St Edmunds is sponsoring two apprentices through its links 
with the local technical college and has accommodated an 
engineering graduate from Coventry University through his 
industrial year. At the Costa Rican site, links with the local 
technical college are well established and in 2014, three 
students fulfilled their technical training there. Within the 
Photographic Division, Manfrotto’s School of Xcellence   
Shoot and Share training programme continued to educate 
employees on photography and videography. 18 seminars 
were attended by more than 220 employees and guests 
throughout 2014. 
In 2014, Manfrotto Distribution in the US undertook a 
structured training and development programme identifying 
obstacles to progress, the development of collaborative 
working and the need to embrace change collectively.   
The programme ran over several months involving an 
investment of time and funds. Over 40 employees took part, 
resulting in a step change in the business’ performance.
Equal opportunity
Vitec has an equal opportunities culture with an express 
prohibition on discrimination of any kind. In 2011, Lord Davies’ 
report on Women on Boards was considered by the Board 
leading to a reiteration of our diversity statement, which is set 
out on page 45 of the Governance Report and on our website. 
The Board has continued to monitor progress on this issue 
and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for developing 
diversity throughout the Group. The organisation’s current 
gender breakdown is as follows:
We continue to recognise the importance of diversity 
throughout our workforce and the human resources teams 
continue with efforts to attract women to Vitec and encourage 
them to apply for promotions. We continue to strive to employ 
a diverse workforce. 
Vitec’s approach to diversity has always followed a strict policy 
of sourcing the best person for the role irrespective of race, 
gender, age or disability. We are keen to develop further the 
recruitment of talented women to the organisation at all levels 
and are developing policies and procedures across the   
Group to achieve this. During the year all senior women were 
encouraged to complete a personal development plan and 
these were reviewed by the Group Chief Executive. As a result, 
mentoring and development plans have been put in place  
and are managed by the divisional HR teams. In 2015, all 
senior employees will be encouraged to create their own 
personal development plans to continually monitor their 
progress and learning. 
Recruitment processes have been reviewed to ensure a 
diverse mix of candidates is reviewed and shortlisted for 
interviews, where appropriate, with a view to increasing the 
number of women in senior roles. Flexible working policies 
have been introduced in all the major business units, allowing 
all employees, regardless of gender, to request flexible 
working. This is usually granted, unless the needs of the 
business cannot otherwise be met. In 2014, we supported  
the National Women in Engineering day, as explained later in 
this report, and were a silver sponsor of the Women In Science 
and Engineering Awards, an organisation which aims to 
promote science, technology, engineering and mathematics to 
young women. As part of this initiative, representatives of the 
Group attended a seminar to learn from other organisations 
about ways in which companies can encourage and support 
women into roles in science, technology, engineering and 
maths industries. Learning points from the seminar have been 
shared with HR teams and will be implemented in 2015. 
It is Vitec’s policy that applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.  
In the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable 
effort is made to ensure that their employment within the 
Group continues. It is our policy that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons should be,  
as far as possible, identical to that of all other employees.
Gender statistics as at 31 December 2014 
Number
of men
% of 
men
Number
of women
% of 
women
Board 6 75% 2 25% 
Operations Executive 6 100% 0 0%
Senior Management 17 85% 3 15% 
Rest of organisation 1,190 70% 503 30% 
This data does not include contractors
Vitec is a member of the 
FTSE4Good index.
Employees in Costa Rica completed a sponsored walk to raise funds to 
provide free mammograms at a local hospital.
Vitec supported the WISE Awards in 
2014, recognising women in the fields 
of science, technology and engineering.
Working at Vitec 
www.vitecgroup.com/working_at_vitec
Corporate Responsibility 36 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Responsibility
Our Approach
We emphasise initiatives and projects strongly 
backed by employees, that are relevant to what  
we do and can be supported for several years.
Our Vision
Support the communities in which  
we operate.
Community & Charitable Donations
We have continued to support charitable and community based causes in 2014. The following are a few examples of 
the good work completed by our employees in the communities within which we operate.
BBC Children in Need
In November 2014, staff at Manfrotto UK’s Ashby-de-la-Zouch 
site undertook a fixed bike challenge in the canteen where  
staff cycled the distance from Ashby-de-la-Zouch to Manfrotto’s 
divisional headquarters in Bassano, Italy. The challenge was  
part of the Good3 initiative raising awareness of healthy bodies, 
exercise and work-life balance, with the added benefits of 
bringing employees at these two sites closer together and 
raising money for a worthwhile charitable cause. During the 
week-long event, culminating with a fancy dress cycle session, 
employees cycled 1,064 miles and raised donations which the 
Company matched, donating a total of £3,654 to BBC Children 
in Need. 
National Women in Engineering Day
In June 2014, the Bury St Edmunds, UK, site supported 
National Women in Engineering Day, to celebrate the Women’s 
Engineering Society’s 95
th
 anniversary. Students from local 
schools visited the Bury St Edmunds facility taking part in 
engineering inspired activities and hearing from women 
engineers on the attractions of a career in engineering.  
This included a tour of the facility showcasing our manufacturing 
operation and a challenge to make a paper aeroplane fly the 
furthest. Apart from being good fun, the students had the 
opportunity to ask engineering related questions with positive 
feedback from the schools following the visit affirming that girls 
were choosing their GCSE options with engineering in mind.
Bexel’s support for The V Foundation for Cancer Research 
In July 2014, Bexel supported the 14
th
 ESPYS Celebrity Golf 
Classic which benefits The V Foundation for Cancer Research. 
Bexel donated $40,000 towards ESPYS’ fundraising efforts plus 
provision of audio visual equipment and labour to support the 
charitable event.  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Continuing our University support 
Vitec has continued support of Kingston University’s Television 
and Video Technology department. Further to financial 
donations made over several years, the Company has   
agreed to provide the time and services of certain employees 
to provide training for students at the University in the use  
of broadcast equipment and other general broadcast training. 
This will include giving over 200 students the opportunity  
to use first-hand the Company’s broadcast and  
photographic equipment including Vinten, Manfrotto   
and Autoscript products. 
The Costa Rica site also donated equipment to the 
Universidad de Costa Rica worth $11,200 to promote the  
use of the Company’s products with students.
WaterAid and Reaching the Unreached 
Manfrotto UK continued their support to WaterAid in 2014 with 
a donation of £1,500. This charity helps some of the poorest 
people in Africa, India and Pakistan to gain access to safe 
water, sanitation and hygiene. The business also maintained its 
links with Reaching the Unreached with a donation of £3,500 
to this UK registered charity that supports charitable work in 
India for the poor, promoting projects involving water, food, 
medicine and education.
Cheru Cup 
Manfrotto Italy held their third edition of the Cheru Cup in June 
2014, an annual football event involving four teams of 
employees to mark the life of a former employee who passed 
away. The event raised f1,865 which was donated to “Citta 
della Speranza” a local Italian foundation helping children 
suffering from onco hematology diseases.
Picture of Life
In 2014, Manfrotto Italy introduced an educational photography 
programme for young people from underprivileged 
backgrounds in Naples, Italy involving the Jonathan 
rehabilitation centre in Scisciano. It consisted of a three month 
educational programme that led towards a professional 
qualification in theoretical and practical photography lessons 
provided by teachers from the Manfrotto School of Xcellence. 
The programme provided each participant with photographic 
equipment including a camera, tripod, bag and lighting 
equipment. In addition to giving these young people an 
opportunity to gain new skills in photographic techniques,  
the most passionate and skilled student has secured the 
opportunity to work with Manfrotto on product 
communications and the Manfrotto website. Manfrotto 
launched the programme again in Verona, Italy in November 
2014 and in 2015 is looking at opportunities to extend this  
into other territories including the UK. 
Corporate Responsibility 38 The Vitec Group plc
Board of Directors
John McDonough  
CBE, BSc (Eng)
Appointed  
15 March 2012  
(Chairman from 1 June 2012)
Role  
Chairman
Skills & experience  
John is also Chairman of 
Vesuvius plc. He was most 
recently Group Chief Executive 
of Carillion plc from January 
2001 to December 2011. 
Previously he was a non-
executive director of Tomkins 
plc from June 2007 to 
September 2010, where he  
was also Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee,  
and Exel plc from February 
2004 to December 2005.  
Prior to Carillion, John worked 
for Johnson Controls and  
Massey Ferguson.
   
Stephen is currently a non-
executive director and senior 
independent director of 
Dialight plc. He was formerly 
a non-executive director of 
Umeco plc. Previously he was 
Divisional Managing Director 
of Weir Oil & Gas, part of 
Weir Group plc. Prior to this 
he worked in senior roles at 
Danaher Corporation, Black 
& Decker, Unipart Group, 
Hepworth PLC and  
Technicolor Group.
   
Paul was previously Group 
Financial Controller at Signet 
Jewelers Limited between 2007 
and 2011. Prior to that, he held 
a senior role at RHM plc from 
2004 to 2007, through its 
flotation in 2005 and 
subsequent sale to Premier 
Foods plc. Paul was with 
Smiths Group plc for over ten 
years from 1993, including   
a number of divisional and 
operating company finance 
director roles. He is a Chartered 
Accountant having qualified  
with EY, and has a first class  
Masters degree in   
Mechanical Engineering.
   
Carolyn is currently a  
non-executive director of 
Lloyds Banking Group plc, 
Capita plc, the UK Statistics 
Authority and the Competition 
and Markets Authority. She 
was previously a non-executive 
director of the Financial 
Services Authority between 
2007 and 2011. Until April 
2011, she was Director of 
Group Development and 
Strategy at ITV plc, having  
also spent five years as 
Director of Strategy at the  
BBC and a member of its 
Executive Board. She has also 
been a partner at McKinsey, 
where she specialised in 
media, and a policy adviser   
in the Number 10 Policy Unit. 
Committee membership  
Nominations (Chairman)
Nationality  
British
Age  
63
   
54
   
48
   
54
  
Nominations
  
British
  
-
  
British 
 
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration (Chairman)
  
British 
 
14 April 2009
 
Group Chief Executive
 
13 June 2011
 
Group Finance Director
 
1 February 2012
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Stephen Bird  
MA
Paul Hayes  
M.Eng & Man, ACA
Carolyn Fairbairn 
BA, MA, MBA 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Christopher Humphrey  
BA, MBA, FCMA
Role  
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Lorraine Rienecker  
B.Eng, MBA
Age  
57
   
52
   
51
   
70
Nationality  
British
  
British 
  
British
  
British 
 
Appointed  
1 December 2013
 
2 October 2013
 
1 December 2013
 
1 March 2004
 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director;
Senior Independent Director
Nigel Moore  
FCA
Mark Rollins 
B.Eng, ACA  
Skills & experience  
Christopher is currently Group 
Chief Executive Officer of Anite 
plc, holding that position since 
2008. Previously he was their 
Group Finance Director 
between 2003 and 2008.  
He has held senior positions   
in finance at Conoco, 
Eurotherm International plc  
and Critchley Group plc. He 
was previously a non-executive 
director of Alterian plc between 
2011 and 2012. He is a 
Chartered Management 
Accountant and a Fellow of 
CIMA. At the close of the 2015 
AGM he will become Chairman 
of the Audit Committee.
   
Mark is currently Chief 
Executive of Senior plc,  
being appointed to that 
position in March 2008.  
He joined Senior plc in 1998 
from Morgan Crucible plc, 
and became Group Finance 
Director in 2000. He was 
formerly a non-executive 
director of WSP Group 
from 2006 to 2012. He is a 
Chartered Accountant and 
holds a first class degree in 
Engineering. At the close of the 
2015 AGM he will become the 
Senior Independent Director.
   
Lorraine is currently President, 
Meggitt Aftermarket & 
Customer Support, having 
previously held the role of 
Executive Vice President, 
Strategy, Sales & Marketing 
at Meggitt plc between 2005 
and 2014. Previously she was 
Director of Strategy & Planning 
at BAE Systems and Marconi 
Electronic Systems (GEC) 
between 1998 and 2002 and 
has held several other senior 
roles at Booz Allen & Hamilton 
and Bombardier.
   
Nigel is currently Chairman 
of JKX Oil & Gas plc, and 
a non-executive director 
of Hochschild Mining plc 
and Ascent Resources plc. 
Formerly a London based 
partner of EY, where he was 
engagement partner for a 
number of significant client 
companies with specific 
responsibilities for their audits. 
He will be retiring from the 
Board at the close of the 
2015 AGM.
Committee membership  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration
  
Audit
Nominations
Remuneration
  
Audit (Chairman)
Nominations
Remuneration
Corporate Governance 40 The Vitec Group plc
Your Board, under my Chairmanship, is 
responsible to all Vitec’s stakeholders for 
providing strong leadership and effective 
decision-making to ensure the continued 
success of the Group and the implementation 
of our strategy. This report explains how the 
Board and Operations Executive during 2014 
has operated in delivering this and setting the 
right tone from the top. We strive to work in 
accordance with best corporate governance 
practice and evolve those practices and 
procedures to deliver long-term sustainable 
shareholder value.
The Board has been refreshed with new skills and widened 
diversity following the appointments of Mark Rollins, Lorraine 
Rienecker and Christopher Humphrey in late 2013. In 2014, 
the newly appointed Directors have focused on getting to know 
the business and each other, spending time visiting sites and 
meeting our employees, and building on their knowledge of the 
Group. In the latter part of the year, the Board visited operations 
in Los Angeles, US, visiting Bexel and Teradek and an external 
studio where the Group’s products were seen in operation. 
Further, I visited the key operating sites in Italy, the US and the 
UK. I have also met with several major shareholders during 2014 
to hear first-hand their views on the business, governance and 
remuneration matters, and to ensure we continue with a clear  
and open dialogue. 
An externally facilitated Board evaluation was completed towards 
the end of 2014, the first under my Chairmanship. I am pleased to 
report that the Board was considered to be performing effectively 
and to a high standard with clear objectives and modus operandi. 
I cover this in more detail later in my report. 
The Board has spent a significant amount of time reviewing and 
evaluating the Group’s strategy and future prospects, the 
outcome of which can be seen on page 12 where we set out our 
strategic priorities. I am confident that we have the right strategic 
plan in place and right executive team to generate good returns 
for our shareholders. This has included the consolidation of our 
business operations into two reporting divisions: Broadcast and 
Photographic. Alongside the strategic review we have considered 
the Group’s principal risks and the associated processes and 
procedures to mitigate them. Further detail can be found on 
pages 18 and 19.
After serving on the Board since March 2004, Nigel Moore will 
stand down as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Senior Independent Director at the close of the 
2015 AGM. I would like to thank Nigel for his considerable 
contribution to the Company during his tenure. The Nominations 
Committee has primarily focused on succession for the roles  
of Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent 
Director during the year, while continuing to bear in mind the 
overall skills of the individual Board members and balance of  
the Board as a whole. Christopher Humphrey will therefore be 
appointed to the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee with 
effect from the close of the 2015 AGM. Having joined the Board 
on 1 December 2013, Christopher has undertaken a thorough 
induction to the Group, having visited a number of our sites and 
meeting with the Group Finance Director and Audit Partner to 
better understand our financial operations. Christopher has also 
been shadowing Nigel in his role as Audit Committee Chairman 
for the past six months, ensuring that a thorough handover takes 
place. Christopher has recent and relevant financial experience 
being a Chartered Management Accountant and has previously 
served as a group finance director in two listed Groups.
Mark Rollins will be appointed Senior Independent Director with 
effect from the close of the 2015 AGM. Mark has extensive 
operational experience as a director of listed companies with  
a wide experience of shareholder matters during his most recent 
role as Chief Executive of Senior plc. 
Following the 2015 AGM, the Board will comprise seven directors 
including myself as Chairman, four independent Non-Executive 
Directors and two Executive Directors. I believe this to be the right 
size for the Board given the scale of our operations. Each Director 
has skills in the areas of strategy, finance and technology to assist 
with the implementation of our strategy. They also enhance our 
diversity in terms of gender, professional and global experience. 
Three of our Directors are currently working in other international 
companies, ensuring they have relevant and current global 
commercial experience of the fast-paced changing environment 
in which we operate. 
Corporate Governance
Chairman John McDonough, CBE describes Vitec’s 
corporate governance framework and the work of 
the Board and its committees during 2014
Corporate Governance online 
www.vitecgroup.com/corporate_governance 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Carolyn Fairbairn and I have served on the Board for three  
years in 2015. In December 2014 the Board agreed that both 
Carolyn and I remained committed to the Board and possessed 
the requisite skills to continue in our current roles. Our terms  
of appointment have been renewed for further three year 
periods to last until 2018, subject to our reappointment at each 
AGM. Your Board and their biographies are set out on pages  
38 and 39. 
My governance review has taken into account the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), and explains how  
we have applied its Main Principles. I confirm that the 2014 
Annual Report has been drafted in full compliance with the latest 
version of the Code as it applies to financial years ending  
31 December 2014 including its supporting principles and 
provisions. Each has been complied with throughout 2014,  
as required by the Listing Rules. We have also taken into 
account the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
Board has elected for early adoption of some of the new Code 
provisions on a best practice basis. We will report fully against 
the revised Code in 2015’s Annual Report.
Leadership
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the creation  
and delivery of sustainable performance and long-term 
shareholder value. However, there are separate roles for   
each member of the Board and we have agreed a clear  
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group  
Chief Executive. Full details of our respective roles and 
responsibilities can be found on our website and these   
are reviewed annually. 
It is my responsibility to manage the Board ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role. I work closely with  
the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary  
to achieve this by ensuring that: all Directors are kept advised 
of key developments; they receive accurate, timely and clear 
information; and they actively participate in the decision-
making process. Board agendas are reviewed and agreed in 
advance to ensure each Board meeting utilises the Board’s 
time most efficiently. I encourage all Board members to openly 
and constructively challenge the proposals made by executive 
management led by the Group Chief Executive. I ensure that 
each Director properly exercises the power vested in them 
and in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
relevant law and any directions as provided by the Company 
in general meeting. Apart from the remuneration of Directors 
or Directors’ fees there were no instances when a Director had 
to abstain from voting on a matter due to a conflict of interest 
during 2014. The Board has adopted a formal procedure for 
dealing with any such conflicts or potential conflicts of interest. 
During the year, the proposed acquisition of Autocue Group 
Limited was referred to the Competition and Markets Authority, 
of which Carolyn Fairbairn is a non-executive director. Under the 
Company’s Articles of Association, having declared this conflict 
in advance, Carolyn was able to participate in the discussions 
and decision making on this acquisition. 
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for managing the 
day-to-day running of the business. The Operations Executive 
supports the Group Chief Executive in this duty, the six 
members of which are shown on page 6. The Group Chief 
Executive and I have a good working relationship, meeting 
at least monthly outside of scheduled Board meetings and 
speaking regularly to discuss strategy and performance,   
and to ensure that Board meetings cover relevant matters.  
Our relationship and regular dialogue helps to underpin the 
working of the Board, providing for an open forum in which 
matters are discussed.
Nigel Moore is the Senior Independent Director having been 
appointed to that position in May 2011. In this role, Nigel has 
overseen my evaluation as part of the 2014 external Board 
evaluation process. This was an important task given this was 
our first externally facilitated evaluation under my Chairmanship. 
Further information on the outcome of my evaluation is provided 
later in the report. As mentioned in my introduction, following the 
close of the 2015 AGM, Mark Rollins will be appointed Senior 
Independent Director and Mark will continue to support me in 
this role.
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved  
to it which includes, among other items: consideration and 
development of the Group’s strategy; setting of annual  
operating budgets; regular review of progress against strategy 
and budgets; financial results; dividends; changes in Board 
composition including key roles; acquisitions and disposals; 
material litigation; capital structure; risk management strategy; 
and various statutory and regulatory approvals. During 2014,  
the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board was reviewed 
and updated to ensure compliance with best practice. The  
full Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board is available  
on our website.
The Board has taken into account the Code requirement that 
it confirms that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy, and has retained this power 
for itself. To achieve this we have again asked the Executive 
Directors and Operations Executive to provide us with clear 
documentary evidence around the content and process of the 
2014 Annual Report. The Audit Committee has confirmed to  
us that the financial statements as contained in the 2014 Annual 
Report are true and fair and that the work of the external auditor 
has been accurate and effective. On the basis of this process, 
we are able to confirm that the 2014 Annual Report taken as  
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable through reliance  
on management and knowledge of the following processes: 
•   a detailed planning stage including drafting guidance and 
coordinated project management;
•   a verification process dealing with the factual content of the 
Annual Report;
•   comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the 
Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance; 
and 
•  comprehensive review by the senior management team.
Corporate Governance 42 The Vitec Group plc
The Board dealt with a diverse range of matters 
during 2014 which are summarised here.
At each scheduled meeting the following 
standing items are considered:
•  Confirms compliance with Directors’ duties 
and considers any new conflicts of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
•  Reviews progress against agreed Board 
objectives
•  Reviews reports from the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
Company Secretary and Group Development 
and HR Director on key aspects of the 
business including health and safety, current 
trading, strategy, acquisitions and disposals, 
financial results, governance and HR
• Reviews performance against KPIs
There were six scheduled Board meetings and 
one short notice Board meeting in 2014. Apart 
from the standing items described above, the 
following is a summary of the material items 
considered at each meeting in 2014:
Board activities during 2014
Corporate Governance
February (held in Richmond, UK)
• Annual Results, including review and approval, 
where appropriate, of:
 - Report from the Audit Committee Chairman 
 - Report from the Remuneration Committee  
 Chairman 
 - Principal risks and mitigation
 - Report on going concern
 - Final dividend recommendation
 - Full year results announcement for the year  
 ended 31 December 2013
 -  2013 Annual Report including an assessment 
that the Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable
 - Resolutions to be submitted to  
 the AGM and content of Notice of AGM
 - Management Representation letter
• Appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor
• Group strategy update 
• Received update on talent, succession 
planning below Board level and diversity
• Considered discretionary increases for the 
Vitec Group Pension Scheme
• Approved capital expenditure project for 
Haigh-Farr
• Approved changes to Sharesave plan rules 
following changes implemented in the 2013 
Finance Act
June (held in Richmond, UK)  
• Received an update on Group strategy and 
the IMT business
•  Received strategic updates from the 
Photographic and Broadcast Divisional  
Chief Executives 
• Reviewed the Group’s 2014/15 insurance 
renewals
•  Reviewed actuarial report on the Group’s   
UK pension scheme as at 5 April 2014
• Agreed to extend the term of appointment of 
the Chairman of the Pension Scheme  
until 2018
• Considered a paper on investors’ views to be 
taken into consideration for the 2014 Annual 
Report and 2015 AGM
• Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
• Report from the Nominations Committee 
Chairman
August (held in Richmond, UK)
• Half year results, including review and 
approval, where appropriate, of: 
 -Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
 - Principal risks and mitigation
 - Report on going concern
 - Interim dividend
 -  Half year results announcement for the period 
ended 30 June 2014
 - Management Representation letter
• Report from the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman
• Considered an update on Board composition
• Reviewed a paper on technology updates that 
would be provided to future meetings 
• Reviewed the re-forecasted 2014 budget
• Post-acquisition review of Teradek
• Group strategy update including the proposed 
exit of the IMT business
• Agreed the final format of the 2014 Board 
evaluation to be conducted by Lintstock
• Approved a proposal to increase the total 
monthly Sharesave savings limit per employee
October  (held in Los Angeles, US)
• Site visit to Teradek and Bexel facilities and 
off-site TV production studio in Los Angeles
• Market and technology updates for the 
Broadcast market
• Noted acquisition of Autocue
• Considered the re-forecasted 2014 budget
• Group strategy update including the proposed 
exit of the IMT business 
• Received a strategic update on the Broadcast 
Division from the Divisional Chief Executive
• Received an update on the process and 
timing of the Board evaluation
• Update on the Vitec Group Pension 
Scheme including deed of amendment for 
administrative matters
• Report from the Nominations Committee 
Chairman
December  (short notice meeting held by   
conference call)
• Approved in principle the acquisition of the 
business of SmallHD
December (held in Richmond, UK)
• Received an update on recent investor 
meetings
• Noted the completion of the disposal of the 
IMT business in November
• Received a presentation on tripod technology 
from the Photographic Division
• Received an update on outstanding litigation 
matters
• Considered and approved the 2015 budget
• Reviewed the outcome of the 2014 external 
Board evaluation and approved 2015 Board 
objectives
• Report from the Audit Committee Chairman
• Report from the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman
• Report from the Nominations Committee 
Chairman
• Reviewed Board governance arrangements 
and key policies including the Code of 
Business Conduct
• Completed capital expenditure project review
• Approved property sale for Photographic 
Division in Italy 
• Reviewed Non-Executive Directors’ fees
• Approved the renewal of the three year terms 
of appointment for the Chairman and Carolyn 
Fairbairn as Non-Executive Directors
May (held in central London, UK)
• Received a briefing on the business to be 
conducted at the AGM
• Considered the content of the Interim 
Management Statement (including re-
forecasted 2014 budget)
• Agreed on engaging Lintstock to complete the 
formal Board evaluation process for 2014
• Group strategy update 
• Approved capital expenditure project for Bexel
• Approved new rules for the Deferred Bonus 
Plan
• Considered a proposal to increase the total 
monthly Sharesave savings limit per employee
• Received an update on the status of the auto 
enrolment process for pensions
• Board training on investor relations
• Approved property lease for Haigh-Farr 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
We hold a dinner for the Board around each scheduled Board 
meeting to enable Directors to discuss current business 
matters. It also gives an opportunity for senior management  
or external advisors to attend to give updates on trading, 
markets or wider industry matters. This is a very useful format 
enabling a less formal opportunity for the Board to get to  
know one another and executive management. It also  
enables the business to be discussed at the Board meeting  
to be introduced and for more time to consider matters. 
At least twice a year we also hold Non-Executive Director only 
meetings, scheduled around the February and August Board 
meetings. These enable the Non-Executive Directors to raise 
any issues that they may wish to without executive 
management present. In my role as Chairman I feed back  
to the Executive Directors on these discussions and take  
any actions necessary to address matters raised.
To monitor its ongoing performance during 2014, the Board 
set itself several objectives for the year which are detailed in 
the section on Board performance evaluation. Progress against 
each objective was tracked at each scheduled Board meeting 
during 2014. The key output from the 2014 Board evaluation 
has allowed us to set further objectives for 2015 that I will 
report on in next year’s Annual Report. 
In addition to the matters reserved to it, the Board delegates 
certain items to its principal Committees. I feel it is appropriate 
to ensure the Board has sufficient time to deal with strategic 
matters while retaining oversight on salient points by virtue  
of its Committees. The Board’s three principal committees  
are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. 
Each Committee operates under clear terms of reference 
which were updated during the year to reflect emerging best 
practice and, specifically for the Remuneration Committee,  
the need to comply with the new reporting requirements as set 
out by the Companies Act 2006. Copies of each Committee’s 
current terms of reference are available on our website. 
Each Committee is authorised to seek any information it 
requires from any employee of the Company in order to 
perform its duties and to obtain, at the Company’s expense, 
outside legal or other professional advice on any matter within 
its terms of reference. Each Committee, at least once a year, 
reviews its own performance, constitution and terms of 
reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness 
and recommends any changes it considers necessary to  
the Board for approval. 
The Remuneration and Audit Committees each agreed their 
objectives for 2014 in order to monitor their progress and 
performance. Progress on each objective is set out in this 
report under the relevant section for that Committee. 
Objectives for these two Committees have been set for 2015 
and an evaluation of progress against these objectives will  
be reported in next year’s Annual Report.
Details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings is shown in the table on page 51. With one 
exception, I confirm that all Directors attended each scheduled 
Board meeting during the year and an explanation is provided 
where they were unable to attend the meeting called at short 
notice. When any Director is unable to attend they continue to 
receive the necessary papers and I seek to contact them in 
advance of the meeting to obtain their views and decisions on 
the proposals to be considered. The matter considered at the 
short-notice meeting held during 2014 had previously been 
discussed in detail during a scheduled Board meeting. 
The Board visited the Teradek and Bexel business sites in  
Los Angeles, US, in October 2014, along with an external  
TV production studio where Directors were able to observe the 
Group’s products and services in use during filming. The Board 
met with senior management at both businesses and learned 
more about operations, specifically at the newly acquired 
Teradek business. The Board was given a demonstration of 
new products, including those still under development and 
emerging market conditions. The Board intends to hold  a 
meeting at an overseas business each year in the foreseeable 
future to allow Directors to develop their understanding of 
operations. Each Director is also encouraged to independently 
visit operations when appropriate to further their understanding 
of the business and meet operational management.
As part of the wider governance framework it is important  
to explain the workings of the Operations Executive.   
The Group Chief Executive chairs the monthly meetings  
of the Operations Executive which discusses ongoing  
business performance and enables the Group Chief Executive 
to manage the business with his direct reports. I receive an 
update from the Group Chief Executive on any salient matters 
resulting from each meeting.
I was pleased to welcome members of the Operations 
Executive to a number of Board and Committee meetings 
during 2014, along with the Group Risk Assurance Manager 
and Group Financial Controller. Their attendance allows the 
Board to directly question those senior managers responsible 
for the business and to gain a better understanding of their 
respective businesses. This has again been particularly useful 
during 2014 as we have spent a significant amount of time 
considering not only the Group’s strategy as a whole, but that 
of each individual Division. We will continue to welcome 
members of the Operations Executive and other senior 
management to Board and Committee meetings in the future.
The Chairman visiting operations at our Ashby-de-la-Zouch site in 2014
Corporate Governance 44 The Vitec Group plc
Effectiveness
2014 has been a year of stability for the Board, following a year of 
change in 2013. We have spent time together learning about not 
only the business but each other’s skills and personalities, which 
helps facilitate effective and constructive Board and Committee 
meetings. I believe the Board now has the right skills, talent and 
diversity to effectively deliver the Company’s agreed strategy. 
Each of the Non-Executive Directors bring independent character 
and judgement to bear on strategic matters, the performance of 
the Group, the adequacy of resources and standards of conduct. 
The Board considers that Carolyn Fairbairn, Christopher 
Humphrey, Nigel Moore, Lorraine Rienecker and Mark Rollins are 
independent in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Code. Each Director brings a complementary set of skills and 
diversity to the Board, having served in companies of varying  
size, complexity and market sector. When combined, these  
skills give your Board the comprehensive skill set required to 
deliver the strategic objectives of the Group and to ensure its 
continued success.
On appointment, we provide each Director with a tailored and 
extensive induction to the Group. Mark Rollins, Christopher 
Humphrey and Lorraine Rienecker went through this process 
following their appointments in late 2013, which included meeting 
with all of their fellow Board members individually, the Operations 
Executive, key external advisors, receiving briefings on each 
area of the business and visiting the Group’s principal operations 
including sites in the UK, Italy and the US. Teach-ins were held 
on the products and services we offer and how each business 
operates in its chosen markets and segments, along with the 
internal governance processes and procedures that exist to 
support our operations. To gain a better understanding of the 
Group externally, each newly appointed Non-Executive Director 
met with our corporate advisors including KPMG, Investec, 
Rothschild, and Slaughter and May. Following the induction 
process, each Director is encouraged to continue visiting the 
Group’s operations as their schedule permits. 
All Directors, having notified me in the first instance, are able 
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties. During 2014 no Director 
felt the need to take such advice. They also have access to the 
advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman,  
on all governance matters.
Ongoing training for new Directors and existing Directors is 
available at the request of the Director. Each Director receives 
details of relevant training and development courses from both 
the Group Company Secretary and from external bodies such 
as KPMG, Deloitte, and Slaughter and May, as the Company’s 
appointed advisors. The requirement for training is discussed at 
meetings of the Board and of its Committees and I ensure that 
each Director has the required skills and knowledge to enable 
them to operate efficiently on the Board. The Group Company 
Secretary maintains a register of training undertaken by Directors 
to facilitate this discussion. During the year the Board collectively 
received training sessions on such matters as product technology, 
anti-bribery and adequate procedures, investor relations and 
Broadcast and Photographic market updates. The Board 
regularly receives written updates on governance, regulatory  
and financial matters as they are published.
Working with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company 
Secretary, I ensure that the Board receives papers for 
consideration so that it gives all Board members adequate time  
to read, prepare and, where appropriate, ask questions prior 
to the meeting about the information supplied. The information 
includes sufficiently detailed budgets, forecasts, strategy 
papers, reviews of the Group’s financial position and operating 
performance, and annual and half yearly reports. Each Board 
member receives a detailed monthly report from the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Company Secretary 
and Group Development and HR Director, plus a Health and 
Safety Report covering the ongoing performance of the business. 
The Board receives further information from time to time as and 
when requested.
All meetings of the Board and its Committees are minuted by the 
Group Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.  
In the first instance, minutes are reviewed by the Chairman of that 
meeting before being circulated to all Directors in attendance and 
then tabled for approval at the next meeting. Any concerns raised 
by Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes of each meeting.
The Board has the power at any time and from time to time to 
appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a casual vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board, subject to a maximum 
number of 15 Directors as prescribed by the Company’s Articles. 
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next AGM 
and shall then put himself or herself forward to be reappointed  
by shareholders.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial period of three years which, with the 
approval of the Nominations Committee and the Board, would 
normally be extended for a further three years. If it is in the 
interests of the Group to do so, appointments of Non-Executive 
Directors may be extended beyond six years, with the approval  
of the Nominations Committee, the Board and the individual 
Director concerned. Under the Company’s Articles, each Director 
is required to stand for annual reappointment. In December 2014 
the Nominations Committee considered the terms of appointment 
for myself and Carolyn Fairbairn, given that we had both been 
appointed as Directors in 2012. After consideration and 
recommendation to the Board, the Board agreed that our terms 
of appointment should be renewed for a further three year period, 
to last until 2018. As mentioned earlier, Nigel Moore will be retiring 
at the close of the 2015 AGM and will not be standing for 
reappointment. Full details are included within the 2015 Notice  
of AGM. The table on the following page sets out the Chairman’s 
and Non-Executive Directors appointment dates and scheduled 
renewal of terms.
Corporate Governance 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
On making appointments to the Board, among other criteria, 
the issue of diversity is considered. The Board agreed its policy 
on diversity during 2011 which was reviewed during the year 
and deemed to remain appropriate. Our statement is set out 
below, as well as being published on our website:
Vitec recognises the importance of a fully diverse workforce  
in the successful delivery of its strategy. The effective use of  
all the skills and talents of our employees is encouraged and 
this extends to potential new employees. It is essential that the 
best person for the job is selected regardless of race, gender, 
religion, age, sexual orientation, physical ability or nationality. 
Vitec is fully committed to equal opportunity where talent is 
recognised. The Board will keep under regular review the issue 
of diversity including at Board level, senior management level 
and throughout the entire workforce, taking into account 
among other things Lord Davies’ review Women on Boards. 
We will report upon this issue annually in our Annual Report.
The Employees section of the Corporate Responsibility   
Report contains further information on diversity, including  
the disclosure of gender diversity statistics at Board, 
Operations Executive and senior management level as   
well as throughout the organisation, in accordance with   
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Board performance evaluation 2014
We previously conducted an externally facilitated Board 
evaluation in 2011, and have conducted internal evaluations 
during 2012 and 2013, the results of which have been 
disclosed in previous Annual Reports. In line with good 
corporate governance practices, we undertook an externally 
facilitated evaluation in 2014, the first under my leadership  
as Chairman. Following a tender process led by myself and 
assisted by the Group Company Secretary, we engaged with 
Lintstock, which does not have any other connection with the 
Group. Lintstock quickly assimilated themselves with the Board 
and the Group and created a process and timetable to enable 
them to facilitate the evaluation. 
The process commenced with Lintstock having access to  
past Board and Committee papers and minutes to familiarise 
themselves with the Group and the matters discussed during 
the preceding year. Individual meetings were then held with 
myself, a number of Directors and the Group Company 
Secretary, where more specific questions were posed to gain  
a deeper understanding of the Board’s workings. The Group 
Company Secretary and I worked with Lintstock to develop 
bespoke questionnaires that would probe Directors to answer 
questions based on the work completed by the Board during 
2014 around the strategic review, leadership, culture and 
corporate governance, and to understand the relationships  
and processes underpinning the workings of the Board and  
its Committees, specifically regarding the performance of 
individual Directors and their levels of collaboration. These  
were issued to all Directors and the Group Company Secretary 
following the Board and Committee meetings held in October, 
and covered reviews of the Board, each of the three primary 
Committees (Remuneration, Audit and Nominations) and the 
Chairman. Lintstock collated the findings into five separate 
reports which were firstly discussed with the Chairman and 
Group Company Secretary. The results were then presented  
to the Board at its meeting in December where the outcomes 
have helped to shape the Board and Committee objectives  
for 2015. 
Chairman or Non-
Executive Director
Appointment 
date
First renewal of 
term due
Second renewal 
of term due
Annual renewal of term 
post two three year 
terms
Notes
John McDonough 15 March 2012 15 March 2015 15 March 2018 Annually from 15 March 
2019 onwards
Annual renewal of term will take into 
account ongoing performance and 
continuing independence
Nigel Moore 1 March 2004 1 March 2007 1 March 2010 1 March thereafter Will cease to be a Director from the close 
of the 2015 AGM on 12 May 2015
Carolyn Fairbairn 1 February 2012 1 February 2015 1 February 2018 Annually from 1 February 
2019 onwards
Annual renewal of term will take into 
account ongoing performance and 
continuing independence
Mark Rollins 2 October 2013 2 October 2016 2 October 2019 Annually from 2 October 
2020 onwards
Annual renewal of term will take into 
account ongoing performance and 
continuing independence
Christopher 
Humphrey
1 December 2013 1 December 2016 1 December 2019 Annually from 1 
December 2020 onwards
Annual renewal of term will take into 
account ongoing performance and 
continuing independence
Lorraine Rienecker 1 December 2013 1 December 2016 1 December 2019 Annually from 1 
December 2020 onwards
Annual renewal of term will take into 
account ongoing performance and 
continuing independence
Corporate Governance 46 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
I am pleased to report that Lintstock concluded your Board is 
collectively performing well, with excellent processes and 
governance in place. There is a good Board dynamic. Following 
the strategic review undertaken in 2014 and our site visits,  
we are collectively engaged and excited by the opportunities  
for growth and the challenges we face. Each Committee was 
also deemed to be effective along with individual Directors 
contributing time and effort both during and outside of meetings. 
Non-Executive Directors have demonstrated a willingness to 
devote sufficient time and effort to understand the Company  
and its businesses and have provided independent, rigorous  
and constructive challenge on strategy and operational 
performance. Board and Committee materials and papers are 
comprehensive, clear, appropriately detailed and circulated  
in good time, allowing for meetings to be managed efficiently. 
Succession planning for the Board was well-managed and the 
induction process for newly appointed Directors considered  
to be comprehensive with an appropriate level of exposure to 
Board and governance information, people and site visits.  
Risk appetite and the management of risk were judged as 
appropriate and well-managed.
Identified in the Board evaluation, key topics that have helped to 
form the 2015 Board objectives include: Group strategy and 
tracking of progress against strategic objectives; Board structure; 
market trends; emerging technology; key risks; and succession 
planning for the Executive Directors and senior management. I 
will report to you on progress against each of these objectives in 
the 2015 Annual Report. 
Each of the key Board Committees were reviewed with individual 
outputs and actions created. As with the Board, the key areas  
of focus have helped to form the 2015 objectives that will be 
reported on by each Committee in the 2015 Annual Report.  
For the Audit Committee, 2015’s focus will be on: ensuring a 
successful induction for the new Audit Committee Chairman; 
ensuring the Committee continues to regularly review the risk 
management framework, financial reporting and internal controls; 
receiving regular training on financial and governance changes; 
and beginning to consider the timing and process around any 
future tender of the external auditor. The Remuneration 
Committee’s primary focus will be on ensuring that governance 
disclosures meet best practice and changing standards,  
taking into account publications made by investor relations 
bodies, among others, while the Nominations Committee  
will focus on succession planning and talent development at  
and below Executive Director level. 
Finally, my review highlighted that I have a good relationship  
with the Group Chief Executive, Board members and major 
shareholders. Nigel Moore, as Senior Independent Director,  
has discussed the outcome of my review and action points  
with other Directors individually. 
Following the internal Board evaluation in 2013, the Board set 
itself several objectives for 2014. These are summarised below 
with an evaluation of performance against each:
2014 Board Objectives Progress during 2014
Develop the 
Group’s strategy to 
deliver sustainable 
long-term growth 
in key markets 
and ensure clear 
communication to 
shareholders
•  Received regular updates from each Division 
on progress against each of their strategic 
plans with Divisional Chief Executive Officers 
attending Board meetings
•  Identified and discussed key areas concerning 
strategy and agreed programme for ongoing 
review of strategy
•  Agreed to focus on Broadcast and 
Photographic markets
•  Approved the acquisitions of: the assets of 
the Special Cameras Division of SIS in March 
2014; Autocue Group in October 2014; and 
SmallHD in December 2014
•  Exited the IMT business in November 2014
• Reviewed other corporate action opportunities
Ensure successful 
induction of all new 
Board members 
and finesse 
succession plans 
around the Board 
and its Committees. 
Ensure external 
Board evaluation 
adds value in terms 
of Board focus on 
key strategic issues
•  Comprehensive induction programmes 
completed for Mark Rollins, Christopher 
Humphrey and Lorraine Rienecker including 
site visits, meeting with key employees and 
advisors, and governance information
•  Succession plans for Christopher Humphrey 
to assume the role of Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Mark Rollins to assume the 
role of Senior Independent Director following 
the 2015 AGM and subsequent to Nigel 
Moore retiring from the Board
• Completed external Board evaluation in 2014
Develop talent 
management 
programme and 
succession plans 
to ensure the right 
depth of talent and 
skills to innovate 
and deliver on 
strategic plans for 
growth. Continue to 
embed diversity into 
the organisation
•  Received updates on talent development 
strategy including succession planning for 
key roles in the Group
•  Roll out of flexible working policies to 
support diversity initiatives
•  Support introduction of personal 
development plans for senior women 
throughout the business
Continue to develop 
the Group’s risk 
management and 
oversee the Group’s 
principal risks and 
uncertainties in light 
of development 
of Group strategy. 
Ensure governance 
controls and culture 
are developed to 
comply with best 
practice
•  Reviewed detailed risk assessment and 
mitigation process and disclosed principal 
Group risks in 2013 Annual Report and Half 
Year Results 2014
•  Reviewed results of site governance reviews 
as conducted by the Group Company 
Secretary 
•  Development of due diligence and risk 
assessment research around third parties
•  Introduced governance arrangements to 
newly acquired businesses
Gain greater 
understanding 
around key 
market dynamics 
and emerging 
technologies
•  Received updates on emerging technologies 
via the strategic review
•  Schedule of regular Board presentations 
created to ensure ongoing updates on 
emerging technology and products at     
each meeting
•  Visited the Los Angeles, US, businesses to 
gain a deeper understanding of operations 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Performance evaluations of each of the Executive Directors also 
took place against achievement of specific personal objectives, 
the detail of which can be found in the Remuneration Report  
in respect of the outcome of their 2014 annual bonus.
Overview of the Nominations Committee 
The Board has appointed the Nominations Committee to 
oversee the composition of the Board, senior executive 
recruitment and succession, and the process for appointments 
of Directors. The Nominations Committee, that I chair, has 
agreed terms of reference that are available on the  
Company’s website.  
During 2014 the Nominations Committee focused its attention 
on the roles of the current Non-Executive Directors in the 
knowledge that Nigel Moore would be approaching the end 
of his tenure as a Director following the 2015 AGM. The 
Chairman met with each of the Directors individually to discuss 
possible succession plans for the roles of the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and as Senior Independent Director. Taking 
into account the skills, experience and time commitment 
required for each of these roles, it was unanimously agreed  
by the Nominations Committee that Christopher Humphrey 
and Mark Rollins would assume the roles of Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director, 
respectively, given their recent responsibilities and skills in  
their current executive roles as explained in my introduction.
The Nominations Committee uses the support of external 
executive search consultants where necessary to facilitate 
searches for new Directors. There was no engagement with 
external executive search consultants during 2014. 
As a guide should the recruitment of a Director be required,  
a role specification would be developed bearing in mind  
any diversity, skills or knowledge gaps in the Board. Initial 
interviews would be held with candidates with both myself  
and the Group Chief Executive, following which a shortlist 
would be created taking into account the skills of each 
candidate and perceived fit with the Board and senior 
management team. The majority of the Board would then  
meet with each preferred candidate individually to ensure  
that the correct person with the right skills and dynamic fit  
with the Board was appointed. This same process would 
occur whether the role was executive or non-executive in 
nature. However, should a search for the role of Chairman  
be necessary, this would be conducted by the Senior 
Independent Director with the support of the Group Chief 
Executive. Subject to the outcome of each search, a formal 
recommendation on an appointment is made by the 
Nominations Committee to the Board for approval. 
Following the appointments made during 2013 and the 
change of roles that will be effective following the 2015 
AGM, I am confident that we have a good mix and balance 
of skills, personalities and diversity on the Board to shape 
the direction of the Group going forward, deliver on strategy, 
monitor ongoing performance and discharge good corporate 
governance. I will remain mindful of the need to have the right 
balance on the Board and future Board changes will take this 
into consideration. The Nominations Committee will continue to 
monitor Board structure and succession plans, including talent 
and succession plans of senior executives below Board level.
 
Chairman Members
John McDonough Stephen Bird
Carolyn Fairbairn 
Christopher Humphrey
Nigel Moore 
Lorraine Rienecker
Mark Rollins
Duties
• Reviews and evaluates the 
structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity) of  
the Board
• Considers succession planning 
for Directors and other key 
senior executives
• Identifies and nominates to the 
Board candidates for Board 
vacancies
• Prepares descriptions of roles 
and capabilities required for 
Board appointments
•  Reviews the executive and 
non-executive leadership 
needs of the Company
•  Reviews time commitment of 
Non-Executive Directors
•  Ensures that Non-Executive 
Directors receive a formal 
letter of appointment and 
appropriate induction training
At each main meeting: 
• Confirms compliance with Directors’ duties and considers any new 
conflicts of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
The Committee met three times during 2014 and covered the 
following matters:
Nominations Committee activities during 2014
June
• Considered progress with the induction process for the new 
independent Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2013
• Reviewed Board composition and succession planning particularly 
for the Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director
October
• Reviewed Board composition and succession planning particularly 
for the Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director
• Received an update on talent management, succession planning 
and diversity covering Executive Directors and senior management 
of the Group
December
• Reviewed Board composition and succession planning particularly 
for the Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director
• Recommended to the Board the renewal of the three-year 
appointments of John McDonough and Carolyn Fairbairn as 
Chairman and as a Non-Executive Director respectively
Corporate Governance 48 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Committee activities during 2014 Overview of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Carolyn Fairbairn. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises exclusively 
independent Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Development 
and HR Director, and Group Company Secretary have all been 
invited to attend meetings throughout 2014. The Committee  
met three times in 2014.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the 
setting of a remuneration framework or broad policy for the 
Company’s Group Chief Executive, other Executive Directors 
and members of the Operations Executive. The Committee’s  
full terms of reference can be found on our website.
An overview of the work completed by the Remuneration 
Committee during the year is set out in the following table.  
The Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2014 on pages 56 to 73 provides an introduction from the 
Committee Chairman. It sets out a summary of the Group’s 
remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and gives full 
details of Executive and Non-Executive Directors’  
remuneration during 2014.
During 2014 the Remuneration Committee had three meetings, all 
of which were scheduled. None were held at short notice. At each 
scheduled meeting the Committee considers the following matters: 
•  Confirms compliance with Directors’ duties and considers any new 
conflicts of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
• Reviews progress against objectives
The following specific business was dealt with at each meeting held  
in 2014:
February
• Approved the Remuneration Committee Report including the Policy 
Report to be included in 2013 Annual Report
• Reviewed and agreed on outcome of personal objectives for Executive 
Directors for 2013
• Reviewed outcome of 2013 Annual Bonus Plan
• Reviewed satisfaction of performance conditions tied to LTIP and DBP 
awards made in 2011 
• Reviewed and approved awards to be made under the LTIP and DBP 
in 2014
• Reviewed the structure and performance conditions of the 2014 
Annual Bonus Plan
• Considered shareholder feedback on the revised structure of the LTIP 
and DBP
August
• Received a market update on executive remuneration and 2014 AGM 
season from Deloitte
• Reviewed progress on personal objectives for Executive Directors   
for 2014
• Reviewed proposal on the re-calibration of the achievement of  
personal objectives
December
• Considered and agreed the outcome of 2014 objectives and set 2015 
objectives for the Committee
• Considered feedback received from a major shareholder on the 
structure of executive remuneration
• Considered the content of the Investment Association’s letter to 
Remuneration Committee Chairmen and its impact on the Company’s 
remuneration structure
• Considered a proposal to include the provision of clawback in the 
rules of the LTIP , DBP and Annual Bonus Plan 
• Received an update on indicative outcome for the 2014 Annual  
Bonus Plan 
• Reviewed remuneration and proposed salary increases for 2015 for 
the Executive Directors and Operations Executive
• Reviewed structure of the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan
• Considered draft personal objectives for Executive Directors for 2015
• Reviewed output from the external evaluation of the Committee
Chairman Members
Carolyn Fairbairn Christopher Humphrey
Nigel Moore 
Lorraine Rienecker
Mark Rollins
Duties
• Determining and agreeing with 
the Board the broad framework 
and policies for Board and 
executive level remuneration
• Ensuring executive 
management are provided 
with appropriate incentives 
to encourage enhanced 
performance
• Reviewing performance-related 
pay schemes and ensuring their 
structure encourages long-term 
growth for the Company
• Reviewing ongoing 
appropriateness of 
remuneration policy
• Reviewing the design and 
targets for any performance 
related pay schemes
• Reviewing the design of all 
share incentive plans
• Ensuring that all payments to 
Directors are in line with the 
approved remuneration policy
•  Operating the rules of malus 
and clawback in the long-term 
incentive plans and annual 
bonus plan
•  Reviewing remuneration trends 
and major changes in employee 
benefits across the Group
•  Reviewing termination 
arrangements in accordance 
with contractual terms
•  Ensuring full disclosure is made 
regarding remuneration in the 
Company’s Annual Report in 
accordance with prevailing 
regulations, including putting 
a policy report to shareholders 
for approval at least every three 
years
•  Ensuring advice is obtained 
from appropriate sources 
•  Agreeing objectives and 
reviewing performance    
against each 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2014 Remuneration Committee Objectives Progress during 2014
Ensure remuneration policies and 
practices reward fairly and responsibly 
with clear link to strategic objectives, 
corporate and individual performance
• Reviewed remuneration structure in light of investor advisory bodies’ views to have simple 
remuneration arrangements
• Agreed restructure of long-term incentive awards from the 2014 AGM onwards with the LTIP awards 
for Executive Directors increasing to 125% of salary (with 25% increase waived in 2015) and for the 
matching element of the DBP to be removed in response to investor feedback
• Agreed that annual bonus was linked to stretching financial performance; vesting of long-term 
incentives tied to TSR and EPS over three year performance period; Executive Directors required to 
build a shareholding stake in the Company of at least one times gross annual salary and Operations 
Executive members of 50% of annual salary; and introduced clawback provisions across all bonus 
and long-term incentives
• Reviewed benchmark remuneration data for Executive Directors and Operations Executive members 
and agreed salary increases for 2015
Prepare and adopt an appropriate 
remuneration policy report and secure 
shareholder approval of the policy at 
the 2014 AGM
• Drafted and reviewed Remuneration Policy Report in conjunction with advice from Deloitte
• Binding resolution on 2013 Remuneration Policy Report received 96% support from shareholders 
voting at the 2014 AGM
Consult with major shareholders on 
new LTIP rules and ensure they are 
approved by shareholders at the    
2014 AGM
• Considered responses to consultation from major shareholders in connection with the renewal of    
the LTIP
• Removed matching award element to the DBP in light of shareholder feedback
• Plan rules received 96% support from shareholders at the 2014 AGM
Ensure best practice Annual 
Remuneration Report and that 
approved by shareholders at the    
2014 AGM
• Agreed on the drafting of the revised Remuneration Report to be disclosed in the 2013 Annual 
Report; to include a Chairman’s Statement, a policy report and an implementation report 
• 2013 Remuneration Report compliant with regulations and received over 98% support on the 
advisory resolution at the 2014 AGM
Ensure successful inductions of 
new Committee Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors including 
company specific and general 
remuneration practices
• Briefing notes circulated to all Committee members summarising the Group’s share schemes
• Induction meetings held with Deloitte, the Group Company Secretary and the Group Development 
and HR Director
• Received voting guidance from investor advisory bodies in advance of 2014 AGM
• Received ongoing updates from Deloitte on market practice
Continue to monitor progress and 
performance of Deloitte in supporting 
the Remuneration Committee around 
new reporting requirements and 
remuneration policy supporting        
the Group’s strategy 
• Provided support on the consultation with major investors notably concerning the LTIP renewal
• Provided drafting guidance on the new Remuneration Report in compliance with regulations
• Provided detailed benchmark data and analysis to support pay rises and the amendments to the  
LTIP and DBP for Executive Directors and senior executives
• Feedback from Directors on Deloitte’s support was sought as part of the Board evaluation process
The Remuneration Committee set itself several objectives for 2014, the detail and progress against which is detailed below:
The Remuneration Committee has set itself objectives for 2015 and will report on progress against these in the 2015 Annual Report.
Accountability
Internal control and risk management 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee 
for oversight of the Group’s system of internal controls to 
safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s 
assets. As part of its responsibility, the Audit Committee 
formally reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls twice a year. There are systems and procedures 
in place for internal controls that are designed to provide 
reasonable control over the activities of the Group and to 
enable the Board and Audit Committee to fulfil their legal 
responsibility for the keeping of proper accounting records, 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities. The approach taken is designed to provide 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, 
although it is recognised that as with any successful company, 
business and commercial risks must be taken and enterprise, 
initiative and the motivation of employees must not be unduly 
stifled. It is not our intention to avoid all commercial risks and 
commercial judgements in the course of the management of 
the business.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing 
the system of internal controls. The application and process 
followed by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls during the year were as follows:
Corporate Governance 50 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
• Each business unit is charged with the ongoing responsibility 
for identifying the risks it faces and for putting in place 
procedures to monitor and manage those risks. 
• This system has been in place for the year under review  
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
• The responsibilities of the senior management at each 
business unit to manage risks within their businesses are 
periodically reinforced by the Operations Executive. 
• Major strategic, operational, financial, regulatory, compliance 
and reputational risks are formally assessed during the annual 
long-term business planning process around mid-year. These 
plans and the attendant risks to the Group are reviewed and 
considered by the Board. 
• Large financial capital projects, property leases, product 
development projects and all acquisitions and disposals 
require advance Board approval. 
• The process by which the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of internal controls has been agreed by the Board and is 
documented. This involves regular reviews by the Board of the 
major business risks of the Group, together with the controls 
in place to manage those risks. In addition, every business unit 
conducts a self-assessment of its internal controls. Every year, 
the results of these assessments are reviewed by the Group 
Risk Assurance Manager who provides a report to the Group 
Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The Board is made aware of any significant matters arising 
from the self-assessments. The risk and control identification 
and certification process is monitored and periodically 
reviewed by Group financial management. 
• A centralised database of risks facing the Group, as well as 
each individual business, and an evaluation of the impact and 
likelihood of those risks is maintained and updated regularly 
by the Group Risk Assurance Manager. The Group’s principal 
risks and uncertainties and mitigation for them are set out on 
pages 18 and 19 of this Annual Report.
• The Board has established a control framework within which 
the Group operates. This contains the following key elements:  
 -  an organisational structure with clearly defined lines 
of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting 
requirements; 
 - defined expenditure authorisation levels;  
 -  an operational review process covering all aspects of each 
business conducted by Group executive management on  
a regular basis throughout the year;  
 -  a strategic planning process identifying key actions and 
initiatives to deliver the Group’s long-term strategy; and
 -  a comprehensive system of financial reporting including 
weekly flash reports, monthly reporting, quarterly forecasting 
and an annual budget process. The Board approves the 
overall Group budget, forecasts and strategic plans. Monthly 
actual results are reported against prior year, budget and 
latest forecasts and are circulated to the Board. These 
forecasts are revised where necessary but formally at least 
once every quarter. Any significant changes and adverse 
variances are reviewed by the Group Chief Executive and 
Operations Executive and remedial action is taken where 
appropriate. Group tax and treasury functions are coordinated 
centrally. There is regular cash and treasury reporting to Group 
financial management and monthly reporting to the Board  
on the Group’s tax and treasury position.  
The Group’s internal audit function, led by the Group Risk 
Assurance Manager, conducted a number of internal audits  
and additional assurance reviews during 2014, the details  
of which were presented to the Audit Committee. The audits 
included reviews of the appropriateness and effectiveness 
of controls within the Group including, but not limited to: 
purchasing and payments, sales and cash collection, inventory 
management, accounting and reporting, and IT processes.  
An internal audit plan for 2015 has been prepared and   
agreed with the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the Code 
during the year and up to the date of approval of the 2014 
Annual Report and that it accords with the publication by  
the Financial Reporting Council on Internal Control: Guidance  
to Directors (formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance) in 
respect of internal controls. The Board and Audit Committee  
are reviewing the new FRC Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting, 
as issued in 2014 and which has replaced the previous 
Guidance, and will work towards reporting against the 
recommendations in the new Guidance in the 2015   
Annual Report.
Relations with shareholders
Maintaining regular contact with our shareholders remains an 
important part of our activities. During 2014, we continued  
our practice of the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director offering to hold a face to face meeting with each of  
our major shareholders tied into the publication of our full year 
and half year results. I have also met with several major 
shareholders in 2014 to discuss the Group’s strategy, 
governance and remuneration matters. Before the Remuneration 
Policy was presented to shareholders at the 2014 AGM we 
consulted with our major shareholders on its structure to ensure 
their support for the renewal of the LTIP and the removal of  
the matching award under the DBP . We aim to ensure that  
our business, strategy, governance and remuneration policies 
are clearly understood and that any concerns are addressed 
through constructive engagement. Establishing and maintaining 
reliable lines of communication is fundamental to good 
corporate governance. 
I was pleased to meet some of our shareholders at the 2014 
AGM and look forward to meeting shareholders again at the 
2015 AGM. This offers an opportunity for you to meet with 
our Directors and to hear more about the Group’s strategy. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to ask 
questions about the business. I confirm that all Board members 
are scheduled to attend the forthcoming AGM, including each 
of the Committee Chairmen. Details of the AGM are included in 
the Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Annual Report and 
which is available on our website. Should the Company hold 
a general meeting during the year, all shareholders would be 
provided with details in advance and all Directors would attend 
unless prevented by a conflict.  51 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
For the 2015 AGM we will continue with the practise of 
conducting voting on resolutions by way of a poll. This reflects 
best practice in terms of meeting administration and ensures 
that all the views of shareholders who submit proxy forms are 
taken into account in terms of the actual voting at the general 
meeting. The necessary procedures for a poll will be complied 
with in accordance with the Company’s Articles. The outcome 
of the voting at the AGM will be announced by way of a Stock 
Exchange announcement and full details will be published  
on the Company’s website shortly after the AGM. At the 2014 
AGM over 78% of our shares were voted by way of proxies 
submitted, up from 70% at the 2013 AGM. Separate 
resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue upon 
which shareholders are asked to vote. Shareholders attending 
the AGM will still have the opportunity to ask questions at  
the meeting. In the event that a resolution is opposed by  
a significant proportion of shareholders, the Company will 
endeavour to explain, as soon as practically possible following 
the meeting, the actions it intends to take to understand the 
detail and how best to address the concern being raised.  
We publish an Annual Report each year usually in March 
following the end of the financial year on 31 December.   
To allow shareholders to review the Annual Report in advance 
of the AGM and create an informed view of the Group, we 
comply with the requirement set out in the Code in respect 
of shareholder meetings to send the Notice of Meeting and 
related papers at least 20 working days before the meeting 
and we will continue to comply with this requirement.
The Board communicates with its shareholders via a 
combination of public announcements through the London 
Stock Exchange, analyst briefings, roadshows and press 
interviews at the time of the announcements of the half year 
and full year results and, when appropriate, at other times in 
the year. The Executive Directors, Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I also meet 
with investors from time to time to discuss relevant matters. 
Regular updates from the Executive Directors at Board 
meetings keep the Board advised of the views of major 
shareholders. We also receive monthly reports on market  
and investor sentiment along with a full shareholder analysis.
Copies of public announcements and financial results are 
published on the Company’s website, along with a number of 
other investor relations tools, including information on how to 
invest in the Company’s shares, a dividend chart, share prices 
and presentation materials used for shareholder presentations. 
We will continue to evolve our investor relations arrangements 
to ensure that our shareholders and stakeholders remain 
informed on the Company’s strategy and ongoing financial  
and business performance.
John McDonough CBE
Chairman
24 February 2015
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Scheduled Short 
notice
Number of meetings 6 1 4 - 3 - 3 -
Directors
John McDonough 6 1 - - - - 3 -
Carolyn Fairbairn 6 ** 4 - 3 - 3 -
Christopher Humphrey 6 ** 4 - 3 - 3 -
Nigel Moore 5* ** 4 - 3 - 2* -
Lorraine Rienecker 6 ** 4 - 3 - 3 -
Mark Rollins 6 ** 4 - 3 - 3 -
Stephen Bird 6 1 - - - - 3 -
Paul Hayes 6 1 - - - - - -
 *    Nigel Moore did not attend the Board and Nominations Committee meetings held overseas in October 2014 due to a personal matter that arose at short notice. 
**   None of the Non-Executive Directors attended the short notice Board meeting held in December 2014 due to conflicts that could not be rescheduled and the short 
notice given for the meeting. Despite this, each Director gave feedback in advance of the meeting to the Chairman on the matter presented to the meeting. 
Directors’ Attendance table for 2014
Corporate Governance 52 The Vitec Group plc
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring the financial integrity of the 
Group is effective, through the regular 
review of its financial performance. It is 
also responsible for ensuring that the 
Group has appropriate risk management 
processes and internal controls, and that 
audit processes are robust. I will explain 
in more detail the Committee’s activities 
in my report. 
The Audit Committee at the date of this report comprises five 
Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered 
independent. During 2014 the members were:
The Audit Committee provides effective governance over external 
financial reporting, risk management and internal controls and 
reports its findings and recommendations to the Board. In my 
capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to 
report on the operations of the Committee during the past year, 
with emphasis on the specific matters we have considered, 
including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”) and associated Guidance on Audit Committees.  
I confirm that we have fully complied with the requirements of  
the Code as issued in September 2012 and which applies to 
financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012. 
I have been Chairman of the Committee since 2004, and have 
the necessary recent and relevant financial experience as 
required by the Code having formerly been a London-based 
partner of EY, where I was engagement partner for a number  
of significant client companies with specific responsibilities for 
their audits. Also, during the last ten years I have been Chairman 
of the Audit Committee of several public limited companies and 
attended many training sessions and updates presented by the 
major accounting firms. The other members of the Committee 
have a broad range of appropriate skills and experiences 
covering financial, commercial and operational matters and their 
biographies are summarised on pages 38 and 39. As explained 
by the Chairman of the Board, I will stand down as a Director, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent 
Director at the close of the 2015 AGM. The Board has decided 
that I will be ably succeeded as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee by Christopher Humphrey, who is a Chartered 
Management Accountant and has previously served as Group 
Finance Director in two listed groups which will equip him with 
the recent and relevant financial experience to take on this role. 
Christopher has been shadowing me for six months and has 
been closely involved with the full and half year reporting 
processes relating  to 2014. 
The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year and I work 
closely with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk Assurance 
Manager and Deputy Company Secretary to ensure the 
Committee is provided with the necessary information it requires 
to discharge its duties. We operate with a rolling agenda 
programme, taking into account our terms of reference (which 
can be found on the Company’s website), the Group’s annual 
reporting requirements and any other matters which arise on  
Chairman Members
Nigel Moore Carolyn Fairbairn 
Christopher Humphrey
Lorraine Rienecker 
Mark Rollins
Report from Nigel Moore
Corporate Governance
Report from Nigel Moore, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate Governance online 
www.vitecgroup.com/corporate_governance 53 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
an ad-hoc basis. The Committee sets aside appropriate time 
for the review of financial reporting and the risk assurance 
process to ensure they both receive robust consideration  
and challenge. Full detail of the work we completed during 
2014 is set out in the table on page 55.
During the year we formally assessed the effectiveness of the 
external auditor, KPMG. We issued a feedback questionnaire  
to employees who had interaction with KPMG during the 2013 
audit, along with all members of the Board. This questionnaire 
allowed respondents to rate KPMG’s performance in eight 
areas and to provide a narrative assessment. The areas 
covered by the questionnaire were: leadership and team 
structure; planning, approach and scope; execution and 
processes; risks; communication; independence and 
objectivity; adding value; and cost effectiveness. The results 
were shared with KPMG and have allowed the Audit Committee 
to conclude that the KPMG audit process is robust and 
effective, and in accordance with auditing standards. 
We also took into account publications made by the Financial 
Reporting Council, including the Annual Report as published  
by the Audit Quality Review team and the Audit Inspection 
Unit’s Public Report on the inspection of KPMG. This provided 
the Committee with comfort that an external and independent 
review of the quality of KPMG’s overall audit work had taken 
place. As a result, we recommend the reappointment of KPMG 
as auditor of the Company at the 2015 AGM for the 
forthcoming year. A separate resolution for the approval of  
the auditor’s remuneration will be put to shareholders at the 
2015 AGM.  
As already explained by the Chairman, the Board takes 
responsibility for determining that the Annual Report, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. At the 
request of the Board, the Audit Committee has concentrated  
its review of the full year results on the financial statements only. 
Following a review of the process around the annual audit as 
described above and the content of the financial statements, 
the Audit Committee recommended to the Board at its meeting 
on 23 February 2015 the adoption of the financial statements 
as at 31 December 2014 and that they provide a true and fair 
view of the financial performance of the Group.
Significant issues
The Committee considered several significant accounting 
issues, matters and judgements in relation to the Group’s 
financial statements and disclosures for the year ended 31 
December 2014. As part of the half year and full year reporting 
process, management present an accounting paper to the 
Committee, and the external auditor is asked to also comment 
on the key areas of accounting judgement and disclosure.  
The information presented is used by the Committee to critically 
review and assess the key policies and judgements that have 
been applied, the consistency of policy application from year  
to year and the appropriateness of key disclosures made, 
together with compliance with the applicable accounting 
standards. The significant issues arising and a description  
of how each was addressed is shown in the following table.
Significant issue How it was addressed
Working capital 
management
The Committee critically reviewed the carrying 
value of the Group’s working capital. This 
took into account management’s assessment 
of the appropriate level of provisioning 
including collectability of receivables and 
inventory obsolescence. Management 
presented to the Committee the experience 
of bad debts during the year, and the debtor 
concentration and days outstanding. With 
regard to inventory the gross levels held and 
the provisions recorded against obsolescence 
were also presented to the Committee. In 
addition, the external auditor presented their 
findings with regard to the key audit testing 
over working capital covering all the major 
locations. The Committee concurred with 
management’s assessment of the Group’s 
working capital position.
Provisions and 
other liabilities
The Committee considered the judgemental 
issues relating to the level of provisions and 
other liabilities. The more significant items 
include post-employment, taxation, disposal 
and restructuring related obligations. For 
each area management presented to the 
Committee the key underlying assumptions 
and the key judgements. The external auditor 
also presented on each of these areas and 
their assessment of these judgements. 
The Committee has used this information 
to review the position adopted in terms 
of the amounts charged and recorded 
as provisions, acknowledging the level of 
subjectivity that needs to be applied.
Initial 
assessment 
of contingent 
considerations 
in relation to 
acquisitions
On 24 March 2014, Vitec acquired the 
assets of the Speciality Cameras Division of 
SIS Outside Broadcasts Limited through a 
business combination and on 10 December 
2014 the Group acquired the assets of 
SmallHD through a business combination. 
Under the terms of both of these acquisitions, 
future consideration is potentially payable 
under an earn-out provision contingent on 
the achievement of agreed milestone targets. 
The Committee has reviewed the accounting 
valuation of these contingent considerations 
and management’s assessment of their 
fair value as measured at the acquisition 
dates. In addition, the Committee discussed 
and agreed with the external auditor the 
accounting treatment to be applied for the 
current year and to any future adjustments 
to the amount provided. It also considered 
the disclosures that were proposed to 
ensure that the contingent considerations 
were appropriately presented in the financial 
statements. No deferred consideration is due 
on the acquisition of Autocue.
Corporate Governance 54 The Vitec Group plc
Corporate Governance
I invite the audit partner and audit manager from the Company’s 
external auditor, KPMG, to attend meetings of the Committee  
on a regular basis and during 2014 they attended each meeting, 
either in whole or for part of the meeting. The Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Risk Assurance 
Manager and Group Company Secretary attend meetings by 
invitation and other members of the senior management team 
attend as required. At two of the meetings the Executive Directors 
and senior management were not present for part of the meeting 
so that members of the Committee could meet with the external 
auditor in private. The Committee will continue with the practice 
of meeting in private with the external auditor in the future.
KPMG has acted as the Company’s external auditor since  
19 July 1995 and we comply with the requirement to rotate  
the audit partner every five years. We reviewed the external audit 
arrangements in 2010 and as a result Robert Brent of KPMG 
was appointed and has been the audit partner since the audit  
of the 2011 results. His term of appointment is currently 
expected to end in 2016. In accordance with the new Code, 
and acknowledging the Competition and Markets Authority’s 
proposal that companies must put their statutory audit 
engagement out to tender at least every ten years, it is possible 
that we will tender the audit process in 2016, or earlier if 
KPMG’s performance falls short of the Audit Committee’s 
expectations. In reaching a decision the Committee will take into 
consideration the tenure of our new Audit Committee Chairman 
who will commence this role in May 2015 and the timing of the 
anticipated rotation of Robert Brent. In all events, we note that 
under recently published EU requirement on auditor rotation,  
we will be required to replace KPMG LLP as our external  
auditor by 2023 at the latest. 
We have a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit 
services that has been in place for a number of years and which 
is reviewed annually. The use of the external auditor is 
determined by their demonstrable competence, knowledge  
of the Group, and competitive pricing, and monetary thresholds 
for the approval of non-audit work by KPMG have been set  
by the Committee. The policy is divided into three parts:
•   Work where use of the external auditor is deemed 
appropriate: This type of work includes accounting advice in 
relation to acquisitions and divestments, corporate 
governance and risk management advice, defined audit 
related work and regulatory reporting. 
•   Work requiring Audit Committee clearance: This type of work 
includes services as reporting accountants, compliance 
services (including fraud and money laundering), transaction 
work (mergers, acquisitions and divestments), valuation and 
actuarial services, fairness opinions and contribution reports. 
•   Work from which the external auditor is excluded: This 
includes internal accounting or other internal financial 
services, design development or implementation of financial 
information or internal controls systems, internal audit 
services or their outsourcing, forensic accounting services, 
executive or management roles and functions, IT consultancy, 
litigation support services and other financial services such as 
broker, financial adviser or investment banking services.
I confirm that during 2014 the policy has been followed without 
exception and that no changes to the scope of the policy have 
been made. During 2014, £0.2 million was paid to KPMG in 
respect of non-audit work compared to an audit fee of £0.5 
million. This non-audit work included financial due diligence 
associated with the Autocue acquisition and investor   
relations advice. 
Our performance as a Committee was assessed through the 
externally facilitated Board performance evaluation, information 
on which has been provided earlier in the Governance Report. 
The Audit Committee was deemed to be working effectively  
and a number of suggestions for areas to focus on have been 
incorporated in our 2015 objectives. The most salient of these  
is ensuring that a successful handover occurs for the new 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
To ensure that we continue to be an effective Committee, we  
set and measure our performance against specific objectives 
every year. These objectives vary annually and the details of  
our objectives for 2014 and the progress made is summarised 
below. I am pleased to confirm that we successfully achieved  
all of these objectives. Progress on achievement against our 
2015 objectives will be reported in next year’s Annual Report.
2014 Audit Committee Objectives Progress during 2014
Ensure successful induction of 
new Committee members
•  All new Committee members met individually with the Audit Committee Chairman, Group Finance 
Director and Audit Partner to gain a clearer understanding of the Group and its reporting processes
•  Additional informal meetings held in advance of the approval of the full and half year results to ensure 
comfort with format of the Group’s reporting
•  Visits to Group sites to better understand business operations
Receive updated governance 
materials and discuss any impact 
on the Committee’s operations
•  Received updates during the year on: EU proposals around audit tendering requirements; outcome of 
EU audit reform; updated UK Corporate Governance Code
•  Noted that the Group’s mandatory audit rotation will need to be in place no later than 2023
•  Requirements of updated UK Corporate Governance Code applying for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 October 2014
Ensure that financial reporting 
and governance disclosures are 
compliant, appropriate and meet 
best practice standards
•  Reviewed the financial statements in the 2013 Annual Report and the Report from the Audit Committee 
Chairman, agreeing that they were appropriate and compliant with the necessary rules and standards
•  Agreed the five significant accounting issues that were included in the 2013 Annual Report 
•  Approach taken for the Committee’s review of the 2014 Annual Report recognises that the Board      
has retained responsibility for confirming that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced      
and understandable Annual Report & Accounts 2014 55
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
August
• Half year results for 30 June 2014, 
including reviews of:
 - Accounting issues report
 - Report from the external auditor 
 - Half year results for the half year  
ended 30 June 2014
 - Fees for non-audit services and 
professional fees
 - Principal risks and uncertainties
• Recommendations to the Board on: 
 - The half year results
 - Management’s representation letter  
to external auditor
December
• Considered the outcome of 2014 
objectives and agreed 2015 objectives
• Reviewed results of assessment of 
effectiveness of external auditor survey
• Received an update on anti-bribery and 
whistleblowing procedures
• Reviewed the Group’s stock provisioning 
policy 
• Received an update from KPMG on audit 
reform and audit tendering
• Received an update from KPMG on 
suggested content for the Audit Report to 
be included in the 2014 Annual Report
Nigel Moore
Chairman, Audit Committee
24 February 2015
Audit Committee activities during 2014
During 2014 the Audit Committee had four 
scheduled meetings. At each scheduled 
meeting the Committee considers the 
following matters:
•  Confirms compliance with Directors’ 
duties and considers any new conflicts  
of interest
• Reviews minutes of previous meetings
• Reviews actions from previous meetings
•  Reviews Risk Assurance Report covering 
risk, assurance, internal audit and internal 
controls
•  Reviews progress against current year 
objectives
•  Reviews whistleblowing reports and action 
plans to resolve matters reported
The following specific business was dealt 
with at each meeting held in 2014:
February (continued)
• Recommendations to the Board on: 
 - The consolidated financial statements
 - The reappointment of and fees for  
the external auditor
 - Independence and objectivity of the  
external auditor
 - Management’s representation letter  
to external auditor
• Reviewed success of new controls self-
assessment process as launched in 2013 
• Reviewed 2014 internal audit plan
• Reviewed site risk surveys that had been 
conducted at each of the Group’s main 
manufacturing sites
• Private meeting between the Committee 
and external auditor without executive 
management present
June
• Reviewed progress on 2014 objectives
• Reviewed process for the assessment of 
the effectiveness of the external auditor
• Reviewed external audit strategy paper  
for the year ended 31 December 2014
• Appointment of a new Group Risk 
Assurance Manager
February
• Annual results for 31 December 2013, 
including reviews of:
 - Accounting issues report
 - Full year report from the external auditor 
including Auditor’s Report to be included 
in the 2013 Annual Report 
 - Consolidated financial statements for  
the year ended 31 December 2013
 - Report on internal controls
 - Separate report on the work of the  
Audit Committee
 - Performance, effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditor
 - Fees for non-audit services and 
professional fees
2014 Audit Committee Objectives 
(continued)
Progress during 2014
Review the Group’s Risk 
Management processes and 
new self-assessment process 
launched in 2013
•  Reviewed the approach taken to internal audit and risk assurance and provided support to the processes
•  Reviewed and approved the Principal Risks to be disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report
•  Reviewed regular Risk Assurance Reports from the Group Risk Assurance Manager
•  Approved the appointment of, and induction process for, a new Group Risk Assurance Manager
Develop a process for the review 
of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor
•  Reviewed and approved a method for the assessment of the external auditor 
•  Noted and contributed to the results of the survey on KPMG’s effectiveness, including strengths and 
areas for improvement 
Corporate Governance 56 The Vitec Group plc
Section 1: 
Annual Statement by Carolyn 
Fairbairn, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
In my annual statement on remuneration I set out the 
Remuneration Committee’s approach to Directors’ remuneration 
and its activities during 2014. The Committee’s primary objective 
is to set and implement a remuneration policy that is clearly 
understood by our shareholders, and that drives the right 
behaviours in terms of incentivising Executive Directors to  
deliver both growth in long-term shareholder value and the 
Group’s strategy.
The Remuneration Report is split into three sections.
•  Firstly, my annual statement summarising the work of the 
Remuneration Committee in 2014.
•  Secondly, a summary of the Remuneration Policy Report that 
was approved by over 96% of shareholders who voted at the 
8 May 2014 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and that sets 
out the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration.  The 
approved policy governs the remit for Directors’ remuneration 
for the period from the 2014 AGM up until the 2017 AGM. 
This summary is to aid shareholders and readers of the 2014 
Annual Report in understanding the main principles of our 
Remuneration Policy. The Policy Report is available in full  
on the Company’s website and in the 2013 Annual Report. 
Unless there is a need to change this policy the Remuneration 
Committee does not propose putting the Policy Report  
to shareholders for approval again until the 2017 AGM.
•  Thirdly, the Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the 
remuneration paid to Directors in 2014 as well as details  
of how the Committee intends to implement our remuneration 
policy for 2015. Shareholders will have the opportunity for  
an advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration at  
the 2015 AGM.
2014 performance
The Group has delivered a good performance in 2014 with 
growth in revenue and operating profit* of 3.3% and 7.4% 
respectively at constant exchange rates with reported sales  
of £309.6 million and operating profit* of £38.8 million.   
As anticipated, foreign exchange rates have negatively  
impacted our reported revenue and profit. This performance  
has been achieved through delivering our strategy of focusing 
on our core broadcast and photographic markets, 
supplemented by selective value-adding acquisitions and 
maintaining a rigorous approach to cost control. The Group 
successfully completed the acquisitions of SIS, Autocue and 
SmallHD during 2014, enhancing our broadcast market offering, 
and disposed of the loss-making IMT business.
Committee activities in 2014
The Remuneration Committee in 2014 focused on the  
following matters:
•  The approval of an increase in Executive Directors’ salaries 
with effect from 1 January 2015 of 2.5%, reflecting pay 
increases within the Group’s workforce and current market 
conditions. The level of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
has also been increased by a similar level. The Chairman’s fee 
which has been in place since his appointment in 2012 will be 
reviewed in mid-2015 as will the fees paid for the roles of 
Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the  
Senior Independent Director.
•  Bonus payments to Executive Directors for 2014 were 44.25% 
and 45.5% of the maximum potential award for the Group 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively. This 
has been earned against the Group delivering profit before tax* 
of £35.3 million which represented 9.1% growth at constant 
exchange rates. The operating cash flow
#
 generated as a 
percentage of operating profit* did not achieve threshold 
performance targets and did not pay out. Each Executive 
Director is required to defer half of their earned bonus into the 
Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”) for three years ensuring that 
focus on long-term growth is encouraged. 
•  Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) awards made in 2012 to 
Executive Directors did not achieve performance conditions 
based upon Total Shareholder Return and adjusted basic 
earnings per share* growth and therefore will lapse on their 
third anniversary in April 2015. 
Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/remuneration
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share are also before disposal of business.  
In 2010 before significant items.
#
 Cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, before restructuring costs paid. 57 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
•  The 2014 AGM approved the Company’s remuneration  
policy that covers Directors’ remuneration for the period  
from May 2014 through to the Company’s AGM in 2017.  
The Remuneration Committee will operate within this policy  
in determining Directors’ remuneration during this period and 
any need to go outside this policy will be subject to advance 
consultation and approval from shareholders. 
•  The 2014 AGM approved the renewal of our LTIP for a  
further 10 year term. This enables long-term share incentives 
to be awarded to our Executive Directors and senior 
management with performance conditions attached.  
The Committee removed the matching award element tied  
to the DBP at the 2014 AGM, simplifying remuneration 
arrangements and aligning them with best practice. 
•  The Remuneration Committee approved the structure of  
the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan to ensure that it motivates 
Executive Directors to deliver against challenging targets for 
2015 and particularly to deliver long-term sustainable growth. 
Its structure is the same combination of both financial targets 
(Group profit before tax* and operating cash flow
#
 generation) 
and personal objectives as was used in 2014. The 
Committee considers this split of performance measures 
drives performance and behaviour in the right way and is 
aligned with the strategic objectives for the Company.
•  Executive Directors are required to have a shareholding in  
the Company of at least one times base salary built up over  
a reasonable period of time. Both Executive Directors have 
exceeded this level of shareholding.
•  The Committee has expanded the disclosure of bonus 
payments in the 2014 Remuneration Report so that historic 
payments disclose the financial targets and performance 
against each in respect of bonuses paid, thereby ensuring 
the Company’s remuneration disclosures are in accordance 
with best practice while balancing the need for  
commercial sensitivity.
•  While the Company’s Annual Bonus Plan and Long Term 
share incentives have been subject to the operation of  
a malus clause, the Committee has now also taken into 
account emerging best practice from the UK Corporate 
Governance Code in respect of clawback. Awards under 
these plans from 2015 onwards will be subject to both malus 
and clawback and a more detailed explanation is given later 
in the report.
•  It has been agreed that share awards from 2015 onwards 
under the LTIP to Executive Directors are made on the basis 
that they are to be subject to a further two year holding 
period following a three year performance period.
Annual General Meeting  
The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders 
for an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on Tuesday,   
12 May 2015. I will attend the AGM and be available to answer 
questions on this report and our executive remuneration policy.
Carolyn Fairbairn
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
24 February 2015
Remuneration Report 58 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2: 
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
Policy report 
The following is a summary of the Policy Report that covers remuneration for Directors of the Company for a three year period from 
the Company’s AGM on 8 May 2014 until the 2017 AGM. The full Policy Report, as approved by shareholders, is available on the 
Company’s website and is in the 2013 Annual Report. Should there be a need to change the Company’s remuneration policy  
ahead of the 2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve a revised policy.
This Report contains further information required under the Listing Rules and the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Remuneration Report
Purpose and 
link to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance 
measures
Base salary Base salary is 
set at a level 
to secure 
the services 
of talented 
Executive 
Directors with 
the ability to 
develop and 
deliver a growth 
strategy.
Fixed contractual cash amount usually paid 
monthly in arrears.
Normally reviewed annually, with any increases 
taking effect from 1 January each year, although 
the Committee may award increases at other 
times of the year if it considers it appropriate.
This review is dependent on continued satisfactory 
performance in the role of an Executive Director.   
It also includes a number of other factors, 
including experience, development and delivery of 
Group strategy and Group profitability, as well as 
external market conditions and pay awards across  
the Company.
While the Committee has not set 
a maximum level of salary, the 
Committee will usually award salary 
increases in line with average 
increases awarded across the Group. 
Larger increases may, in certain 
circumstances, be awarded where the 
Committee considers that there is a 
genuine commercial reason to do so, 
for example:
•  where there is a significant increase 
in the Executive Director’s role and 
duties;
•  where an Executive Director 
falls significantly below market 
positioning; 
•  where there is significant change 
in the profitability of the Company 
or material change in market 
conditions; and
•  where an Executive Director was 
recruited on a lower than market 
salary and is being transitioned to a 
more market standard package as 
he or she gains experience.
Not 
applicable.
Benefits To provide 
Executive 
Directors with 
ancillary benefits 
to assist them 
in carrying out 
their duties 
effectively.
Executive Directors are entitled to a range of 
benefits including car allowance, private health 
insurance and life assurance. 
Other ancillary benefits may also be provided 
where relevant, such as expatriate travel or 
accommodation allowances.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate 
on the same terms as all UK employees in the 
Sharesave Plan or any other relevant all-employee 
share plan.
There is no maximum level of benefits 
set, given that the cost of certain 
benefits will depend on the individual’s
particular circumstances. However, 
benefits are set at an amount which 
the Committee considers to be 
appropriate, based on individual 
circumstances and local market 
practice. 
Executive Directors’ participation in 
the UK all-employee Sharesave Plan 
is capped at the individual entitlement 
levels set by the UK Government from 
time to time or as prescribed by the 
rules of the relevant all-employee  
share plan.
Not 
applicable.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors  59 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures
Annual 
bonus
To provide a material 
incentive to drive 
Executive Directors 
to deliver stretching 
strategic and financial 
performance and 
to grow long-
term sustainable 
shareholder value.
Half of the annual 
bonus is deferred into 
the DBP and focuses 
the Executive Director 
on long-term value 
delivery and growth.
Paid annually based on performance in 
the relevant financial year. The amount is 
determined based on published full year results 
after the year end.
Award levels and performance measures are 
reviewed annually. The Committee ensures that 
performance measures remain aligned to the 
Company’s business objectives and strategic 
priorities for the year.
Half of the annual bonus paid is deferred into 
core awards under the DBP for a period of 
three years on a mandatory basis unless the 
Committee determines an alternative deferral 
period is appropriate. Awards may be granted in 
the form of conditional awards, nil-cost options, 
forfeitable shares or similar rights and may 
be settled in cash. For DBP awards granted 
prior to the 2014 AGM participants may also 
receive a matching award over the same value 
of shares as are subject to the corresponding 
deferred bonus award, the vesting of which 
is subject to achievement of the same 
performance conditions as for the LTIP . 
Matching awards will not be made for awards 
granted after the 2014 AGM under the DBP .
The Committee retains full discretion to amend 
the bonus payout (upwards or downwards), if 
in its opinion any calculation of payout does not 
produce a fair result for either the individual or 
the Company, taking into account the overall 
business performance of the Company. Any 
such use of discretion will be clearly reported  
in the next published remuneration report.
Participants may also receive the value of 
any dividends which would have been paid 
on shares in respect of which the award 
vests, which may be calculated assuming 
reinvestment of the dividends in the Company’s 
shares on a cumulative basis.
In the event of any material misstatement  
of the Company’s financial results or serious 
reputational damage to the Company caused 
by a breach of the Company’s Code of 
Business Conduct or otherwise, the Committee 
may reduce or impose further conditions on 
awards. 
An absolute 
maximum  
of 125% of 
base salary  
to be paid in 
each year.
Measures and targets for the 
annual bonus are set annually  
by the Committee. 
Currently, around half of the 
annual bonus is based on the 
achievement of annual targets 
set against the Group’s profit 
before tax*, with the remainder 
based on the achievement of 
annual personal objectives and 
achievement of annual targets  
set against the Group’s operating 
cash flow
#
 generated as a 
percentage of operating profit*.
The Committee reserves the right 
to annually vary these proportions 
and also the measures to ensure 
the annual bonus remains 
appropriate and challenging.
Targets are measured over  
a one year period. Payments  
range between 0% and 125% 
of base salary for threshold and 
maximum performance. 
Awards granted under the DBP 
after the 2014 AGM are not 
subject to any performance 
conditions. Details of the 
performance conditions applicable 
to matching awards granted prior 
to the 2014 AGM are described  
on page 66 of this report.
Remuneration Report 60 The Vitec Group plc
Purpose and link to 
strategy
Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance measures
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (“LTIP”)
To provide a long-
term performance 
and retention 
incentive for the 
Executive Directors 
involving the 
Company’s shares. 
To link long-term 
rewards to the 
creation of long-
term sustainable 
shareholder value by 
way of delivering on 
the Group’s agreed 
strategic objectives.
The current LTIP rules expire in early 
2015, and new LTIP rules were 
proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Under both the current and the new LTIP , 
awards are made over a fixed number 
of shares, which will vest based on the 
achievement of performance conditions 
over a performance period of, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, at least 
three years. The performance conditions 
are set by the Committee at the start of 
the performance period. Awards can take 
the form of a conditional award of shares, 
a nil-cost option or similar rights. 
Awards may be settled in cash. 
Participants may also receive the  
value of any dividends which would  
have been paid on shares in respect  
of which the award vests, which may  
be calculated assuming reinvestment  
of the dividends in the Company’s 
shares on a cumulative basis.
In the event of any material misstatement 
of the Company’s financial results or 
serious reputational damage to the 
Company caused by a breach of the 
Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
or otherwise the Committee may reduce 
or impose further conditions on awards. 
The maximum 
value of shares 
over which awards 
may be granted 
in respect of each 
year is 150% 
of base salary 
(although 200% 
is permitted 
in exceptional 
circumstances 
determined by  
the Committee). 
The first set of 
awards to the 
current Executive 
Directors following 
the 2014 AGM will 
be granted at no 
more than 125% of 
base salary, though 
Executive Directors 
have agreed to 
waive 25% of this 
award in 2015.
LTIP awards may be based on 
both financial and share price 
based performance conditions as 
determined from time to time by the 
Committee. It is currently the intention 
for awards granted to have 50% of 
the award subject to the Company’s 
Total Shareholder Return compared 
to a comparator group measured 
over a three year performance period 
and 50% of the award subject to 
targets set against growth (adjusted 
by the Committee as it considers 
appropriate) in the Company’s 
adjusted basic earnings per share* 
over the same performance period. 
However the Committee reserves  
the right to change the balance of the 
measures as it deems appropriate, 
such that no measure accounts for 
less than 25% of the total award. 
At threshold, 25% of the award will 
vest, increasing on a straight-line 
basis up to 100% for performance  
in line with maximum. The 
Committee also reserves the right 
to impose an underpin condition on 
awards such that any level of vesting 
in the opinion of the Committee 
is justified by the underlying 
performance of the Company.
Pension 
contribution
To provide a benefit 
comparable with 
market rates, helping 
with the recruitment 
and retention of 
talented Executive 
Directors able to 
deliver a long-term 
growth strategy.
Usually paid monthly in arrears.
Executive Directors may receive a 
contribution into the Company’s Defined 
Contribution Plan, a personal pension 
arrangement and/or a payment as a 
cash allowance.
20% of base 
salary.
Salary is the 
only pensionable 
element of 
Executive Director 
remuneration.
Not applicable.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued 
Notes to the summary of the remuneration policy table  
for Executive Directors
Under the Company’s share plans the Committee may: (1) in the event 
of any variation of the Company’s share capital, demerger, delisting, 
special dividend or other event which may affect the price of shares, 
adjust or amend awards in accordance with the terms of the plan;  
and (2) amend a performance condition if an event occurs which  
causes it to consider an amended condition would be more appropriate 
and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Legacy plans
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments 
and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were 
agreed: (1) before the policy came into effect; or (2) at a time when  
the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the 
opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for  
the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes 
payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms  
of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Performance measures
The annual bonus plan is based on both personal and financial 
measures. Typically, the majority of the bonus will be based on financial 
measures such as Group profit before tax*. The measures have been 
chosen to provide a balance between incentivising the delivery of the 
Group’s key financial priorities in any particular year and important 
individual strategic objectives. The Committee may vary the specific 
measures and targets year-on-year to ensure that they reflect the key 
financial and strategic priorities for the Company in any given year. 
The LTIP is currently based on Total Shareholder Return performance 
against a specific comparator group, and absolute adjusted basic 
earnings per share* growth. The Committee considers these to be 
important measures of performance for the Company over the longer 
term. While Total Shareholder Return links a portion of the LTIP to the 
creation of value for shareholders, adjusted basic earnings per share* 
growth is a key performance indicator for the Group. Any changes  
to these measures will be aligned with the long-term strategy of  
the business.
Provisions for the withholding and recovery of sums from the Directors 
are as set out in the table above and on page 72.
Remuneration Report
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report continued 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Remuneration policy table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out a description of the operation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration for the  
period through to the 2017 AGM. Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors participate in any annual bonus plan  
or the Company’s share plans:
Role Purpose Operation
Chairman To recruit and retain an independent 
Non-Executive Chairman reflecting the 
responsibilities and time commitment 
for the role. To lead an effective Board 
enabling the delivery on the Group’s 
growth strategy and creation of long-
term sustainable shareholder value.
While the Board has not set a maximum level of fee payable to the Chairman, the 
Board will review the level of fee paid usually on an annual basis and determine 
whether that is sufficient in terms of market conditions and also  
the time commitment for the role. 
The Chairman’s fee is an all inclusive consolidated amount. The Chairman’s  
fee is paid in cash usually on a monthly basis in arrears and not in shares.
Fees are benchmarked against other FTSE-listed companies of a similar size  
and complexity to Vitec. Any future increases will take into account the need  
to ensure that the fee remains competitive and reflects the time commitment  
for the role.
The Chairman’s remuneration also covers his chairmanship of the  
Nominations Committee. 
Non-
Executive 
Director
To recruit and retain independent 
Non-Executive Directors reflecting the 
responsibilities and time commitment 
for the role to contribute to an effective 
Board and to deliver on the Group’s 
growth strategy and creation of long-
term sustainable shareholder value.
Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of the Company consist of the following:
• A base fee; 
•  An additional fee for the role of the Senior Independent Director; and 
•  An additional fee for chairing Board Committees.
Fees are usually reviewed annually and are benchmarked against other FTSE-
listed companies of a similar size and complexity to Vitec and are typically 
increased in line with annual salary increases for the Executive Directors. All fees 
above are usually paid in cash and not in shares and are paid monthly in arrears.
Any future increases will take into account the need to ensure that the  
fee remains competitive and reflects the time commitment for the role.  
The Board has not imposed a maximum level of fee payable.
Benefits To reimburse Non-Executive Directors for 
reasonable expenses and bear any costs 
associated with tax, where relevant.
Expenses are reimbursed as and when incurred (including travel and  
hotel accommodation).
Remuneration Report 62 The Vitec Group plc
Policy on outside appointments
The Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the 
individual and the Company for an Executive Director  
to take up one external non-executive appointment. 
Remuneration received by an Executive Director in respect  
of such an external appointment would be retained by the 
Director. Stephen Bird was appointed on 10 January 2013 as  
an independent Non-Executive Director of Dialight plc. In this 
role he receives a basic fee of £40,000 per annum and an 
additional £5,000 per annum in the role of Senior Independent 
Director. Under the terms of his service contract, Paul Hayes, 
with the agreement of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, 
may take up one external non-executive appointment of a listed 
company. As of the date of this report he has not taken up any 
such external non-executive appointment.
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Details of the Committee’s approach and policy on payment  
for loss of office are given in full in the 2013 Remuneration  
Policy Report. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts but serve under letters of appointment. 
The initial period of their appointments is three years but their 
appointments may, by mutual consent and with the approval 
of the Nominations Committee and the Board, be extended for 
a further three years. Appointments may be extended beyond 
six years by mutual consent and with the approval of the 
Nominations Committee and the Board, if it is in the interest  
of the Company to do so. Under the letters of appointment 
notice can be given by either party upon one month’s written 
notice. Apart from the disclosure under the Remuneration policy 
table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors there are  
no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration  
or loss of office payment under the letters of appointment. 
All the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman (as well as the 
Executive Directors) are subject to annual re-election by the 
shareholders at the AGM.
Copies of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, Chairman’s 
and each Non-Executive Director’s letters of appointment are 
available from the Group Company Secretary at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours at Bridge House, 
Heron Square, Richmond TW9 1EN and are also available on 
the Company’s website www.vitecgroup.com.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee has continued to take into account the views 
of its shareholders concerning the policy on remuneration  
of Directors.
The Company received over 96% support to the 2013 
Remuneration Policy Report and over 98% support to the  
2013 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2014 AGM 
indicating a strong level of support for the structure of  
Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee has further continued to engage with its 
major shareholders in 2014 on Directors’ remuneration. This 
particularly includes the issue of holding periods for long-term 
share incentives and the introduction of clawback provisions for 
the Annual Bonus Plan, Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred 
Bonus Plan. Further details on this are given in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration Report
Summary of Remuneration Policy Report continued
Date of 
Contract
Notice period 
from the 
Company to 
the Executive
Notice period from 
the Executive to 
the Company
Stephen Bird, 
Group Chief 
Executive – 
appointed on 14 
April 2009 
28 January 
2009
12 months 6 months
Paul Hayes, Group 
Finance Director 
– appointed on 13 
June 2011
3 June 2011 12 months 6 months 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
       
  
 Base salary / fees 
 
Benefits  Pension  Annual bonus Long-term incentives Total 
                       
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors                    
Stephen Bird 409,271 399,289 27,885 27,010 81,854 79,858 226,378 355,616 - 195,634
(4)
 745,388 1,057,407
Paul Hayes  281,357 274,495 22,630 22,254 56,271 54,899 160,022 253,050 - - 520,280 604,698
Non-Executive Directors                    
John McDonough 140,000 140,000 - - - - - - - - 140,000 140,000
Nigel Moore 57,000 53,000 - - - - - - - - 57,000 53,000
Carolyn Fairbairn 50,000 40,417 - - - - - - - - 50,000 40,417
Christopher Humphrey
(joined 1 December 2013) 41,000 3,333 - - - - - - - - 41,000 3,333
Lorraine Rienecker
(joined 1 December 2013) 41,000 3,333 - - - - - - - - 41,000 3,333
Mark Rollins
(joined 2 October 2013) 41,000 9,855 - - - - - - - - 41,000 9,855
Simon Beresford-Wylie  
(left 1 December 2013) - 41,250 - - - - - - - - - 41,250
John Hughes 
(left 30 June 2013) - 20,000 - - - - - - - - - 20,000
Maria Richter 
(left 15 May 2013) - 14,928 - - - - - - - - - 14,928
Total 1,060,628  999,900 50,515 49,264  138,125  134,757  386,400  608,666   - 195,634
(4)
  1,635,668 1,988,221
Section 3: 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on Tuesday, 12 May 2015.
Directors’ single figure of total remuneration (audited) 
The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 
and 2013:
Notes: 
1. Taxable benefits includes car allowance, healthcare cover and income protection.
2.  Each Executive Director receives a pension contribution of 20% of base salary into a pension arrangement of their choice 
(including the Company’s defined contribution scheme) or a cash allowance of 20% of base salary. Both Executive Directors 
currently take this contribution in the form of a cash payment.
3.  For the Annual Bonus 2014, both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes’ bonus potential was 125% of base salary. Further details  
are set out in the “Further notes” section on the following page.
4.  Long Term Incentives comprise LTIP and matching awards under the DBP awards made in 2012. Neither achieved 
performance conditions based on Total Shareholder Return and growth in adjusted basic earnings per share* and therefore 
will lapse on the third anniversary of their award on 16 and 12 April 2015 respectively. The 2011 awards under the LTIP and 
matching awards under the DBP partially achieved performance conditions ending on 31 December 2013 based upon Total 
Shareholder Return and adjusted basic earnings per share* growth and vested in March 2014. The 2013 figures in the table 
above have been updated to reflect the actual value received by the Director on the date of vesting rather than the value 
reported in 2013 that was based on the average market value of the Company’s ordinary shares over the quarter ended 
31 December 2013 which was £6.69 per ordinary share. Further details are provided in the “Further notes” section on the 
following pages.
5.  Each Director has confirmed in writing to the Company that the information in the single figure remuneration table is correct 
and that they have not received from the Company any other items of remuneration other than disclosed.
Remuneration Report 64 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Further notes to the Directors’ single figure of total 
remuneration table
(1) Base salary
The table below shows base salaries for 2014: 
(2) Benefits
The single figure of total remuneration table sets out the total 
value of benefits received by each Executive Director in 2014.  
The table below sets out details of these. 
(3) Pension allowance
The table below sets out the value of the cash payment in lieu of 
pension for each Executive Director in 2014:
(4) Annual bonus
In 2014, each Executive Director was entitled to receive subject 
to performance a maximum bonus of up to 125% of base salary, 
half of which is deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The financial elements of the annual bonus plan for each 
Executive Director were based upon actual financial results 
achieved for Group profit before tax* and Group conversion  
of operating profit* into operating cash flow
#
 (over a quarterly 
and full year average target) measured against financial targets 
set by the Board. The Group profit before tax* financial element 
represents 50% of the maximum bonus that could be earned 
and the Group conversion of operating profit* into operating 
cash flow
#
 represents 25% of the maximum bonus that could  
be earned.
Under the rules of the annual bonus plan there is a link between 
the two financial performance conditions so that the conversion 
of operating profit* into operating cash flow
#
 element will only 
pay out if the Group profit before tax* element has at least 
achieved threshold performance.
The Remuneration Committee considered that these two financial 
performance conditions are key financial measures for the 
Group driving the right behaviour in terms of achieving profit* and 
operating cash flow
#
 generation and had the most direct impact 
upon shareholder value for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The personal objective element of the 2014 annual bonus 
plan for each Executive Director, representing 25% of the 
maximum bonus that could be earned, is based upon individual 
performance measured against stretching personal objectives set 
by the Board and Remuneration Committee, as set out below:
Executive Director Car 
allowance
Healthcare 
cover
Income 
Protection
Stephen Bird £20,458 £2,627 £4,800
Paul Hayes £15,203 £2,627 £4,800
Executive Director 2014 Salary
Stephen Bird £409,271
Paul Hayes £281,357
Executive Director Pension allowance
Stephen Bird £81,854
Paul Hayes £56,271
Stephen Bird - 2014 Personal Objectives
•  Continue to build a world class organisation – including 
recalibration of personal objective process for the 
Operations Executive; ensuring that the Operations 
Executive is focused on delivery of the strategic plan to the 
end of 2017; and continue the development of succession 
planning and talent development across the Group including 
the implementation of the diversity action plan.
•  Develop a growth strategy for the Group – including 
development of a stretching and achievable plan to deliver   
a targeted revenue and profit* rate  by the end of 2017, 
focus on ambitious growth developing addressable market 
and geographic expansion, develop the organisation to 
deliver the growth strategy and communicate internally       
to the organisation.
•  Develop and get approval of the 2015 budget with targeted 
growth in profit before tax*.
•  Develop further cost reduction proposals to respond to 
changing market conditions.
•  Assess strategic options for the IMT business and 
implement.
•  Focus on merger and acquisition opportunities that   
address the Group’s growth strategy and meet or exceed  
its financial targets. 
Paul Hayes - 2014 Personal Objectives
•  Support the Group Chief Executive in reviewing the  
Group’s strategy and communication to stakeholders.    
This included developing a clear growth strategy for the 
Group and preparing and delivering an exit strategy for    
the IMT business.
•  Development and approval of 2015 budget with targeted 
growth in profit before tax*.
•  Support acquisition activity in terms of identifying and 
reviewing appropriate value adding opportunities. 
Ensure that there is effective due diligence and that new 
businesses are effectively integrated into the Group.
•  Continue to drive the finance team as a world class 
organisation to maintain strong controls, good reporting 
and acting as effective business partners focused on profit* 
and operating cash flow
#
 generation.
•  Support the induction of new Non-Executive Directors 
who joined the Board in late 2013 particularly focusing on 
supporting them becoming active members of the Audit 
Committee.
•  Lead an effective tax strategy for the Group.
•  Develop a personal development plan in conjunction with 
the Group Chief Executive. 65 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
2014 Annual Bonus Outcome 
The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 
including the financial trigger points used in determining whether a bonus was payable. 
**  In assessing Group performance, the losses of IMT prior to disposal of £1.3 million have been excluded. This treatment is 
consistent with prior years for similar transactions. The £38.5 million Group profit before tax* represents an average of:
   -  £36.6 million being the reported Group profit before tax* with the losses of IMT excluded; and
   -    £40.3 million being the Group profit before tax* with the losses of IMT excluded and adjusted for constant foreign exchange 
rates with those of 2013.
A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the above trigger points for both financial targets. The Remuneration 
Committee considered that these trigger points were appropriate and sufficiently stretching for 2014 given the uncertain 
macroeconomic environment and challenging markets that the Company faced. 
Under the rules of the annual bonus plan the Remuneration Committee retains a full and absolute discretion as to whether  
a bonus is payable or not, and that discretion may only be used in exceptional circumstances, taking into account the overall 
financial performance of the Company. Any use of this discretion in connection with an Executive Director will be clearly  
explained in the Remuneration Report.
Half of the 2014 annual bonus will be deferred into the 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan. The 2014 deferred bonus will be used to 
purchase core award shares held in trust for a three year period. In accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy Report,  
no matching award shares can be earned under the Deferred Bonus Plan. After three years, the core award shares   
are released from the Trust to the Executive Directors. 
Name Bonus 
potential
Elements of bonus 
potential
Threshold Target Maximum Actual Group Performance/
Assessment of personal 
objective performance
Pay-out and % of 
maximum 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
125% of 
annual salary
50% Group PBT* £35.6m £38.2m £42.0m £38.5m** £124,060
25% Group conversion 
of operating profit* into 
operating cash flow
#
76% 84% 92% 69% £0 (0%)
25% Personal objectives 80% £102,318
TOTAL £226,378 
(44.25%)
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director
125% of 
annual salary
50% Group PBT* £35.6m £38.2m £42.0m £38.5m** £85,286
25% Group conversion 
of operating profit* into 
operating cash flow
#
76% 84% 92% 69% £0 (0%)
25% Personal objectives 85% £74,736
TOTAL £160,022 
(45.5%)
Remuneration Report 66 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
(5) Long Term Incentives – Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) and Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”)
The long-term incentive awards value shown in the single figure 
of total remuneration table relate to the following awards: 
Awards made in 2012 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2014
These relate to awards made in 2012 under the LTIP and 
matching awards under the DBP . Awards are measured based 
50% upon the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
measured against a comparator group and 50% subject to 
growth in the Company’s adjusted basic earnings per share* 
(“EPS”). Each performance condition is entirely independent 
from the other performance condition and there is no re-testing 
of either performance condition. The detail of each performance 
condition for each award is set out below.
For that part of an award made in 2012 under the LTIP 
measured against TSR, if the Company’s TSR performance is  
at the median of the comparator group at the end of the three 
year performance period, 25% of that element of an award may 
vest. The full element of an award may vest if the Company’s 
TSR performance is in the top 25% of the comparator group. 
There is a pro-rata straight line vesting between these two 
points. The comparator group comprises the constituents  
of the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial services companies 
and investment trusts) over a three year performance period.  
The Remuneration Committee considered that this index has  
a greater level of complexity and internationality and was most 
comparable to Vitec’s business operations where approximately 
90% of revenues are generated outside of the UK.
For that part of an award made in 2012 under the LTIP 
measured against EPS growth, if the percentage growth in 
the EPS of the Company exceeds 6% per annum (Compound 
Average Annual Growth Rate), 25% of that element of an 
award may vest. Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth 
in EPS over the performance period exceeds growth by 12% 
(Compound Average Annual Growth Rate) or greater. There is  
a pro-rata straight line vesting between these two points.
The same performance conditions applied to matching awards 
made in 2012 under the DBP as for the LTIP except that at 
median performance for TSR or 6% EPS growth one matching 
share vests for every three core award shares and at the upper 
quartile point for TSR and 12% EPS growth one matching  
share vests for every one core award share.
An award lapses if the lower point under both performance 
conditions is not achieved during the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee also considered the  
underlying financial performance of the Company before  
it confirmed vesting. 
Performance out-turn 
The table below provides an estimate of the value of the awards 
and the potential level of vesting achieved as a result. The 2015 
Remuneration Report will disclose the actual value of the awards 
when they vest in April 2015:
TSR is calculated on the basis of growth in the Company’s share 
price over a three year performance period plus dividends paid 
during that period and is expressed as a percentage of average 
compound annual growth. Share price performance is averaged 
over three months at the start and end of a performance period 
to eliminate volatility that may result in anomalous outcomes. 
The TSR performance is independently verified by Deloitte on 
behalf of the Committee and is ranked against the comparator 
group companies’ TSR performance to determine the outcome.
EPS is determined in accordance with note 2.5 of the Financial 
Statements on page 94.
Awards made in 2011 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2013
These relate to awards made in 2011 under the LTIP and 
DBP . The performance conditions for these awards are the 
same as those outlined above (awards made in 2012) except 
that:- For the TSR element the comparator group comprised 
approximately 60 companies of similar market capitalisation 
to the Company and having at least 50% of their turnover 
arising outside the UK. For median performance against the 
comparator group, 35% of an award vested and for full vesting 
of an award TSR performance of the Company had to be in 
the top 20% of the comparator group. The EPS growth figures 
were 5% growth per annum in excess of RPI and 10% growth 
per annum in excess of RPI respectively. The Remuneration 
Committee also considered the underlying financial performance 
of the Company before it confirmed vesting.
Both performance conditions were measured to 31 December 
2013 and the final outcome resulted in 0% of the TSR element 
vesting and 57.1% of the EPS element vesting. The combined 
vesting level of 28.55% for the LTIP and 0.28 matching award 
shares for every core award share held for the DBP resulted  
in awards vesting to participants in March 2014.
2012 Awards Actual performance Vesting as a % of award
TSR Below median 0%
EPS Less than 6% per annum 0%
Total vesting 0% 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
* Face value has been calculated using the Company’s share price at the date of the award of 620.5 pence. 
Deferred Bonus Plan 2014 awards
The following table provides details of the awards made under the DBP on 31 March 2014. The same performance conditions 
apply to these awards as described above for LTIP awards made in 2014.
* Face value has been calculated using the Company’s share price at the date of the award of 628 pence. 
Director Type of award Number 
of shares 
awarded
Face value*
(£)
Face value
(% of salary)
Threshold vesting
(% of face value)
Maximum 
vesting
(% of face value)
End of performance 
period
Stephen Bird
Performance 
shares
65,958 £409,271 100%
25% 100% 31 December 2016
Paul Hayes 45,343 £281,357 100%
Director Type of award Number of 
core shares 
awarded
Face value*
(£)
Threshold vesting
(% of face value)
Maximum vesting
(% of face value)
End of performance period
Stephen Bird 
Core award 
shares using 
deferred 
annual cash 
bonus
28,313 £177,805
1 matching share for 
every 3 core award 
shares
1 matching share for 
every 1 core award 
share
31 December 2016
Paul Hayes 20,147 £126,523
Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 awards 
Other outstanding awards
Awards made in 2013 and vesting in respect of 
performance to 31 December 2015
For awards made in 2013, 50% of an award is subject to 
TSR with the Company’s TSR performance ranked against 
the constituents of the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial 
services companies and investment trusts) over a three year 
performance period. Threshold performance for the TSR 
performance condition will be at the median point of the 
comparator group and will result in 25% of an award vesting. 
Full vesting for the TSR element will be at the upper quartile 
point of the comparator group. A straight line sliding scale will 
operate between each of the above points. Below threshold 
performance none of the award will vest.
50% of the award will be subject to EPS growth over a three 
year performance period. For awards made in 2013 the EPS 
growth figures were set at 6% per annum for 25% vesting and 
12% per annum for full vesting. A straight line sliding scale will 
operate between each of the above points and below 6% EPS 
growth none of the award will vest. Subject to satisfaction of 
performance conditions to 31 December 2015, these awards 
will vest in March 2016.
Awards made in 2014 and vesting in respect of
performance to 31 December 2016
Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 awards
The table below provides details of the awards made under 
the LTIP on 2 April 2014. Performance for these award is 
measured over the three financial years from 1 January 
2014 to 31 December 2016. They are subject to the same 
performance conditions as for the 2013 award except that 
the EPS growth figure is an absolute growth figure of 6% per 
annum for threshold with 25% of this part of the award vesting 
and EPS absolute growth of 12% plus per annum resulting in 
all of this part of the award vesting, with a straight line sliding 
scale between these two points. None of this part of the award 
will vest for EPS absolute growth lower than 6% per annum.
Dividends that would have been paid on shares vesting under 
the LTIP during the performance period are re-invested in 
additional shares for each of the above awards.
There is no re-testing of any performance condition under  
any of the above awards and the Remuneration Committee  
will also consider the underlying financial performance of  
the Company before it confirms vesting of any of the  
above awards.
TSR is calculated on the basis of growth in the Company’s 
share price over a three year performance period plus 
dividends paid during that period and is expressed as a 
percentage of average compound annual growth. Share 
price performance is averaged over three months at the start 
and end of a performance period to eliminate volatility that 
may result in anomalous outcomes. The TSR performance is 
independently verified by Deloitte on behalf of the Committee 
and is ranked against the comparator group companies’ TSR 
performance to determine the outcome.
Remuneration Report 68 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Director 1 January 2014 31 December 2014
John McDonough, Chairman 50,000 50,000
Nigel Moore 26,154 26,154
Carolyn Fairbairn - -
Mark Rollins - 4,900
Christopher Humphrey 5,000 5,000
Lorraine Rienecker - -
Payments to Past Directors
There were no payments in 2014 to past directors of the 
Company. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were paid the 
following fees in 2014:
Fees for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, Committee 
Chairmen and Senior Independent Director roles are reviewed 
annually by the Board with the support of Deloitte providing 
market data to ensure that fees remain appropriate given time 
commitment and the need to attract the right experience for the 
role. There is no commitment to increase fees annually.  The 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other 
benefits from the Company. 
Directors’ Shareholding Requirements and Share Interests
The Board has determined that Executive Directors of the 
Company are required to build up, over a reasonable period  
of time, a substantial holding of shares in the Company of at 
least one times base salary. A reasonable period is considered 
to be the life of a performance period tied to an award vesting 
under the Company’s LTIP or DBP . Both Executive Directors 
satisfied this requirement throughout the whole of 2014 and 
up to the date of this report. Other members of the Operations 
Executive are encouraged to do the same up to a level of 50% 
of base salary. Each member of the Operations Executive has 
achieved this level of shareholding by 31 December 2014.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors of the Company 
have no such requirement and have discretion as to whether 
to hold shares in the Company or not. The following table sets 
out the interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company held by 
each Director (or connected persons) of the Company during 
the year ended 31 December 2014:
Executive Director’s shareholdings as at  
31 December 2014
Chairman’s and Non-Executive Directors’ shareholdings 
as at 31 December 2014
1.  The closing mid-market share price on 31 December 2014 was £5.935 and 
the calculation of the percentage shareholding requirement achieved for the 
Executive Directors is based on this closing mid-market share price.
2.  The shares shown in the beneficial holdings table above were acquired by the 
Directors using their own funds and not through any share incentive scheme (or 
similar) with the exception of the following disclosures in notes 3 and 4 below.
3.  Stephen Bird’s share interests include 67,228 shares (at 31 December 2014) 
purchased in the market using deferred annual cash bonus and held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust, the trust used to hold shares in respect of awards 
made under the Vitec Group 2005 DBP . These shares will vest out of the DBP 
in 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively. Neither these shares nor any of the other 
shares held by Stephen Bird have any performance conditions attached to 
them. During the year ended 31 December 2014 Stephen Bird acquired 19,590 
shares and 11,724 shares through the exercise of awards under the LTIP and 
DBP respectively arising from awards made in 2011.
4.  Paul Hayes’ share interests include 40,036 shares (at 31 December 2014) 
purchased in the market using deferred annual cash bonus and held by the 
Employee Benefit Trust, the trust used to hold shares in respect of awards 
made under the Vitec Group 2005 DBP . These shares will vest out of the DBP 
in 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively. Neither these shares nor any of the other 
shares held by Paul Hayes have any performance conditions attached to them.
5.  There has been no change to the Directors’ shareholdings described in the 
table above in the period from 31 December 2014 to 24 February 2015.
Role 2014 
Annual 
Fee
Comment
Chairman £140,000 The fee was agreed upon the 
Chairman’s appointment to the Board 
on 15 March 2012. The fee will be 
reviewed in 2015.
Non-Executive 
Director
£41,000 Base fee paid to Non-Executive 
Directors. Fee effective from 1 January 
2014.
Chairman of Audit 
Committee
£10,000 Fee was increased on 1 January 2014. 
The fee will be reviewed in 2015.
Chairman of 
Remuneration 
Committee
£9,000 Fee was increased on 1 January 2014. 
The fee will be reviewed in 2015.
Senior Independent 
Director 
£6,000 Fee was increased on 1 January 2014. 
The fee will be reviewed in 2015.
Executive 
Director
Share 
ownership 
requirement 
(% of 
salary)
Number 
of shares 
owned 
outright 
(including 
connected 
persons)
Number 
of shares 
beneficially 
owned 
(DBP core 
award 
shares)
Number 
of shares 
unvested  
and 
subject to 
performance 
(DBP 
matching 
and LTIP 
shares) 
Ownership 
requirements 
met (based 
on shares 
owned 
outright and 
core award 
shares)
Stephen 
Bird
100% 173,228 67,228 253,143 349%
Paul 
Hayes
100% 29,000 40,036 167,844 145% 69 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Sharesave
The Group operates an all-employee savings-related share option scheme in the UK (Sharesave) and a similar international 
plan in respect of overseas employees in certain countries (US, Italy, Costa Rica, France and Germany). The scheme and plan 
are open to all the Group’s employees in those countries, including the Executive Directors. Both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes 
participate in the UK scheme and the details are shown below.
 
(1)
  The market price for the grant of shares under option was calculated on the basis of a three day average of the closing mid-market share price from 29 August 2012 to 
31 August 2012 inclusive. A 20% discount was applied to this price under this HMRC approved Sharesave plan. 
(2)
  The market price for the grant of shares under option was calculated on the basis of a three day average of the closing mid-market share price from 27 August 2014 to 
29 August 2014 inclusive. A 20% discount was applied to this price under this HMRC approved Sharesave plan.
(3)
  There is no performance condition attached to the exercise of the Sharesave plan which is an all-employee plan.
Director Date of  
grant
At  
1 January 
2014 
(shares)
Options 
exercised 
during the 
year
Options 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Options 
granted 
during the 
year
At 31 
December 
2014 
(shares)
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Market  
price at  
date of grant 
(pence) 
(1) & (2)
Date from 
which 
exercisable 
(3)
Expiry date
Stephen 
Bird
26 September 
2012
1,657 - - - 1,657 543 678.5 1 November 
2015
30 April 2016
Paul 
Hayes
26 September 
2012
1,657 - - - 1,657 543 678.5 1 November 
2015
30 April 2016
25 September 
2014
- - - 743 743 484 604.75 1 November 
2017
30 April 2018
Long Term Incentive Plan
Each year the Executive Directors are made a conditional award of shares in the Company. Up until 2015 this has been at a level 
representing 100% of annual base salary, based on the three day average closing mid-market share price of the Company in the 
period just prior to the award. From 2015, awards to Executive Directors have been increased to a level representing 125% of 
annual base salary to partly compensate for the removal of the matching share award element under the Deferred Bonus Plan. 
Both Executive Directors have agreed to waive this increase in 2015 and so awards in 2015 will be at the level representing 100% 
of annual base salary. The award is subject to satisfaction of performance conditions over a three year performance period. The 
following table sets out the outstanding awards under the LTIP as at 31 December 2014 for each of the Executive Directors:
(1)
  The LTIP award made on 16 April 2012 did not achieve either of its performance conditions based on EPS growth and TSR performance compared to a comparator 
group. As a consequence the award will lapse on its third anniversary of 16 April 2015.
Director Date of 
award
Awards at 
1 January 
2014
Award 
exercised 
during the 
year
Associated 
dividend 
shares 
with the 
exercised 
award
Awards 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Awards 
made 
during 
the year
At 31 
December 
2014
Market 
price on 
which 
award 
made 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date 
(pence)
Face value 
of award
Percentage 
of interest 
that vests 
if threshold 
performance 
achieved
End of 
performance 
period
Stephen 
Bird
14 
March 
2011
62,352 17,801 1,789 44,551 - - 595 624.75 100% of 
annual 
salary
35% 31 
December 
2013
16 April 
2012 
(1)
58,124 - - - - 58,124 674 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2014
21 
March 
2013
61,833 - - - - 61,833 645 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2015
2 April 
2014
- - - - 65,958 65,958 620.5 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2016
Total 182,309 17,801 1,789 44,551 65,958 185,915
Paul 
Hayes
16 April 
2012 
(1)
39,958 - - - - 39,958 674 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2014
21 
March 
2013
42,507 - - - - 42,507 645 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2015
2 April 
2014
- - - - 45,343 45,343 620.5 - 100% of 
annual 
salary
25% 31 
December 
2016
Total 82,465 - - - 45,343 127,808
Remuneration Report 70 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Deferred Bonus Plan
Each year, Executive Directors are required to defer a proportion of their annual bonus into the DBP . Bonuses deferred up until the 
2014 AGM and used to purchase core award shares could attract matching award shares subject to satisfaction of performance 
conditions over a three year performance period. Following consultation with shareholders and in line with best practice, the 
matching award element has been removed from the DBP for awards from the 2014 AGM onwards.
Note: The DBP award made on 12 April 2012 did not achieve either of its performance conditions based on EPS growth and TSR performance compared to a 
comparator group. As a consequence the matching award will lapse on its third anniversary of 12 April 2015.
Director Date of 
award
Awards 
at 1 
January 
2014 
(shares) 
Awards 
exercised 
during the 
year
Associated 
dividend 
shares with 
the exercised 
awards
Awards 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Awards 
made 
during 
the year
At 31 
December 
2014
Market 
price on 
which 
award 
made 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
exercise 
date 
(pence)
Face value 
of award
Percentage 
of interest 
that vests 
if threshold 
performance 
achieved
End of 
performance 
period
Stephen 
Bird
29 March 
2011  
(core 
award)
28,690 28,690 - - - - 608 624.75 100% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2013
29 March 
2011 
(matching 
award)
28,690 8,033 3,691 20,657 - - 608 624.75 100% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2013
12 April 
2012 (core 
award)
22,946 - - - - 22,946 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2014
12 April 
2012 
(matching 
award)
22,946 - - - - 22,946 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2014
8 April 
2013 (core 
award)
15,969 - - - - 15,969 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2015
8 April 
2013 
(matching 
award)
15,969 - - - - 15,969 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2015
31 March 
2014 (core 
award)
- - - - 28,313 28,313 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2016
31 March 
2014 
(matching 
award)
- - - - 28,313 28,313 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2016
Total 135,210 36,723 3,691 20,657 56,626 134,456
Paul 
Hayes
12 April 
2012 (core 
award)
8,843 - - - - 8,843 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2014
12 April 
2012 
(matching 
award)
8,843 - - - - 8,843 677 - 100% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2014
8 April 
2013 (core 
award)
11,046 - - - - 11,046 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2015
8 April 
2013 
(matching 
award)
11,046 - - - - 11,046 641 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2015
31 March 
2014 (core 
award)
- - - - 20,147 20,147 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
Not 
applicable
31 
December 
2016
31 March 
2014 
(matching 
award)
- - - - 20,147 20,147 628 - 50% of 
annual 
bonus
33.30% 31 
December 
2016
Total 39,788 – – – 40,294 80,072 71 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Performance graph of the Company’s ordinary  
shares compared to comparator group 
From 2013, the Company is required to include a line graph 
showing the Company’s ordinary share performance compared 
to an appropriate index initially over a five year period, but 
building up to a ten year performance period over subsequent 
years. The graph below illustrates the Company’s annual Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) (share price growth plus dividends  
that have been declared, paid and re-invested in the 
Company’s shares) relative to the FTSE 250 for the preceding 
six year period, assuming an initial investment of £100. This 
index has been chosen since it is the comparator group 
(excluding financial services companies and investment trusts) 
for one of the performance conditions tied to awards under the 
LTIP . The Committee notes that the FTSE 250 index is a 
recognised broad market equity index, relatively complex and 
international in nature and is comparable to the Company’s 
business operations where approximately 90% of revenues  
are generated outside the UK.
Each point is a 30 trading day average of the indices. TSR data 
is taken from Datastream.
TSR comprises share price growth plus dividends paid over a 
three year period and is expressed as a percentage of average 
compound annual growth.
Percentage change in remuneration of the  
Group Chief Executive 
The table below sets out a comparison of the following 
elements of remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive, 
Stephen Bird, in the year ended 31 December 2014 compared 
to the year ended 31 December 2013 and compared to that 
of UK based employees: Annual Salary; Taxable Benefits; and 
Annual Bonus. The Remuneration Committee has selected this 
comparator group on the basis that the Group Chief Executive 
is UK based and this provides a local market reference, is a 
sizeable population and a fair representation of the Group’s 
employee base.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out for the year ended 31 December 
2014 compared to the year ended 31 December 2013 the 
actual expenditure of the Company in terms of remuneration 
paid to or receivable by all employees of the Vitec Group and 
distributions to shareholders by way of dividends. There have 
been no share buybacks or other significant distributions 
and payments required to be disclosed that would assist in 
understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 
the Year Ending 31 December 2015 
This section provides an overview of how the Committee is 
proposing to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2015.
(1) Base salary
The table below sets out the 2015 base salary for each Executive 
Director, together with the percentage increase from 2014:
In determining the increases for 2015, the Committee took into 
account a number of factors, including Company and individual 
performance, the executive’s responsibilities and experience, 
pay increases for the Company’s employees, market rates for 
Executive Director remuneration, the need for retention of a 
talented executive team and prevailing economic conditions.
(2) Benefits
The car allowance taxable benefit has been increased in line 
with base salary increases for 2015. The other taxable benefits 
of private healthcare and income protection are respectively 
premium based and contractually based. 
Annual Salary 
(% change 
in 2014 
compared to 
2013)
Taxable 
benefits (% 
change in 2014 
compared to 
2013)
Annual Bonus 
(% change 
in 2014 
compared to 
2013)
Stephen Bird,  
Group Chief 
Executive
2.5% 2.5% -25%
UK based 
employees
2.5% 2.5% -51%
200
150
100
250
300
350
400  
450  
£
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
31 Dec
2013 
31 Dec
2014
The Vitec Group plc           FTSE 250
Year ended 
31 December 
2014
Year ended 
31 December 
2013
% change
Total remuneration 
paid to all Vitec 
Group employees
£90.7m £92.5m -1.9%
Total dividends paid  
to shareholders
£10.3m £9.8m 5.1%
Performance table setting out the total remuneration  
of the Group Chief Executive 
The following table sets out the single figure of total 
remuneration paid and the amount vesting under short-term 
and long-term incentives (as a percentage of the maximum 
that could have been achieved) to the Group Chief Executive 
for each of the six years ended 31 December 2014. 
Year 
(ended 31 
December)
Group Chief 
Executive
CEO single 
figure of  
total 
remuneration
Annual Bonus 
payout against 
maximum 
opportunity % 
(including actual 
amount paid)
Long-term 
incentive 
vesting rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity %
2014 Stephen 
Bird
£745,388 44.25% 
(£226,378)
-
2013 Stephen 
Bird
£1,057,407 71% 
(£355,616)
28.55% 
(£195,634)
2012 Stephen 
Bird
£1,697,841 79.4% 
(£386,434)
92.4% 
(£817,428)
2011 Stephen 
Bird
£2,053,828 87.3% 
(£323,816)
100%
2010 Stephen 
Bird
£812,946 98.75% 
(£355,994)
-
2009 Stephen 
Bird (from 14 
April 2009)
£487,087 68.7% 
(£172,069)
-
2009 Alastair 
Hewgill (from 
1 January 2009 
to 14 April 
2009)
£151,634 42%    
(£51,911)
-
Executive Director 2015 Salary Increase
Stephen Bird £419,503 2.5%
Paul Hayes £288,391 2.5%
Remuneration Report 72 The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
(3) Pension allowance
The pension allowances remain unchanged from 2014 
representing 20% of base salary. Both Executive Directors 
currently take this contribution in the form of a cash payment. 
The table below shows the value of the cash allowance in 2015:
(4) Annual Bonus
The maximum opportunity remains unchanged since 2014 at 
125% of base salary. Half of any annual bonus earned for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 will be deferred into the DBP 
for a period of three years and held in the form of shares in the 
Company. There will be no matching award that can be earned 
on this deferred bonus. The table below provides information  
on the performance measures against which performance for 
the 2015 annual bonus plan will be measured: 
The performance measures selected reflect the strategic and 
operational objectives of the Group. The Committee considers 
that the specific targets and personal objectives for 2015 are 
commercially sensitive and therefore has not disclosed them. 
The Committee will disclose these targets and objectives  
once a bonus has been paid and subject to the Committee 
considering that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
(5) Long Term Incentive Plan
Executive Directors will receive an award of shares under the 
LTIP equivalent to 100% of base salary in 2015. As advised 
in the 2013 Remuneration Report, to part compensate for the 
removal of the matching award element of the Deferred Bonus 
Plan the Committee has agreed that LTIP awards from the 2014 
AGM to Executive Directors will be at the rate of 125% of salary 
from that date. Both Executive Directors have agreed to waive 
this increase in 2015. These awards will be made in the 42 day 
period following the announcement of the full year results for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 that will be announced on 
25 February 2015. There will be no changes to the performance 
conditions from the awards granted in 2014, namely: 50% 
of the award will be subject to TSR with the Company’s TSR 
performance ranked against the constituents of the FTSE 250 
index (excluding financial services companies and investment 
trusts) over a three year performance period; and 50% of the 
award will be subject to adjusted basic earnings per share* 
growth over a three year performance period. The Remuneration 
Committee has determined that the EPS targets for minimum 
and maximum vesting levels for 2015 will be 6% and 12% 
absolute growth per annum. Both Executive Directors have 
further agreed that any awards vesting under the LTIP 2015, 
after deduction of taxes, will be subject to a further two year 
holding period, thereby more closely aligning their interests  
with the long-term interests of shareholders. 
Malus and clawback 
Under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, Long Term Incentive 
Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan, awards up until 2015 have been 
subject to a malus rule whereby the Remuneration Committee 
has the power to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions 
upon a bonus or award in circumstances that the Committee 
determines such action is appropriate including circumstances 
where a material misstatement of the Company’s audited 
financial results has occurred or serious reputational damage  
to the Company has occurred as a result of a participant having 
breached the Company’s Code of Business Conduct. Under the 
UK Corporate Governance Code that was published in 2014, 
which applies to financial periods commencing on or after  
1 October 2014 companies are now expected to include  
both clawback and malus provisions for all incentive awards. 
The Remuneration Committee has taken the decision to amend 
the rules of the LTIP , DBP and Annual Bonus Plan with effect 
from February 2015, to include a clawback provision where  
in the same circumstances as for malus, any future award that  
is paid out can be clawed back from a participant for a period  
of up to three years from it vesting or being paid out. 
(6) Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The fee structure for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
for 2015 is set out in the table below:
*  The Chairman’s fee will be reviewed by the Board in mid-2015 taking into 
account the nature of the role, the time commitment, performance of the 
individual and market conditions for the level of complexity of the role and the 
calibre of the individual. The fee disclosed above was put in place upon the 
Chairman’s appointment in March 2012.
**  The Non-Executive Director’s base fee was increased by 2.5% with effect from 
1 January 2015.
***  The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and Senior Independent Director fees will be reviewed by the 
Board in mid-2015 to ensure that they remain appropriate taking into account 
the nature of each role, the time commitment, performance of the respective 
individuals, market conditions for the complexity of the roles and the calibre  
of individuals. The last increases for each of these roles were with effect from  
1 January 2014.
The Board has agreed that the basic Non-Executive Director fee 
will typically be increased in line with the level of salary increases 
given to Executive Directors on an annual basis in future years 
and that the fees paid to the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committee will be reviewed again in July 2015.
Executive Director Pension contribution
Stephen Bird £83,900 
Paul Hayes £57,678 
Core measures for 2015 annual  
bonus plan
Weighting 
(% of overall opportunity)
Group profit before tax* 50%
Group percentage of operating profit* 
converted to operating cash flow
#
25%
Role specific personal objectives 
set by the Board and Remuneration 
Committee for the Executive Director
25%
Role 2015 fee 2014 fee
Chairman £140,000* £140,000
Non-Executive Director’s Base fee £42,025** £41,000
Chairman of Audit Committee £10,000*** £10,000
Chairman of Remuneration Committee £9,000*** £9,000
Senior Independent Director £6,000*** £6,000 73 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
Voting at Annual General Meeting
At the Company’s last AGM held on 8 May 2014, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report and the Directors’ 
Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2013 were put to separate votes from shareholders of the 
Company. The Policy Report resolution set out the policy 
for Directors’ remuneration from the date of the 2014 AGM 
through to the 2017 AGM and was a binding vote by way of 
an ordinary resolution. The intention is that the Policy Report 
will remain in place for three years setting out Directors 
remuneration. No payments outside of this Policy can be made 
to Directors without shareholders having approved a revised 
policy in advance of payment. A second resolution was put 
to shareholders on the Annual Remuneration Report, which is 
an advisory vote by way of an ordinary resolution that set out 
the detail of remuneration paid to Directors during 2013. Both 
resolutions were voted and approved by shareholders on a 
poll. The table below sets out the proxy votes voted for, against 
and withheld against both resolutions. In 2015 and 2016, 
shareholders will be asked to vote on the Annual Remuneration 
Report at the respective year’s AGM. Only if there is a need 
for the Policy Report to be changed in these years will 
shareholders be asked to reconsider the Policy Report or if 
shareholders do not approve the Annual Remuneration Report. 
 
As at the date of the Company’s AGM on 8 May 2014   
the Company had 44,186,930 Ordinary Shares in issue.  
The Remuneration Committee considers that an against  
or withheld vote of 20% or more of the votes cast is deemed 
to be significant in connection with a resolution on Directors’ 
remuneration. Based on the level of support to both 
resolutions on remuneration at the 2014 AGM, the Committee 
did not consider that there were any significant issues of 
concern. In the event that a significant level of concern is 
raised at future AGMs, both the Chairman of the Board and 
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will contact  
the Company’s major shareholders following an AGM to 
understand the precise detail of the concern being raised. 
Subject to that, the Committee and the Board as a whole will 
consider how best to address the concern being raised. This 
may involve a revision to the Company’s Policy on Directors’ 
Remuneration at a subsequent AGM or some other change 
which can be implemented without further shareholder 
consultation. The Committee and the Board are committed  
to an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on 
material matters of concern.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee comprised the following 
members during 2014:
Carolyn Fairbairn - Chairman, Nigel Moore, Mark Rollins, 
Lorraine Rienecker and Christopher Humphrey.
All of the Committee members are independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the policy 
base salaries, annual cash bonus arrangements, participation  
in incentive schemes, pension arrangements and all other 
benefits received by the Executive Directors.
The Committee also oversees the framework of remuneration, 
for the Operations Executive, including terms of service, 
pay structure, annual cash bonus, pensions, share incentive 
arrangements and all other benefits.
The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it 
deems necessary, to assist with consideration of remuneration 
matters. The Chairman, John McDonough, the Group Chief 
Executive, Stephen Bird, the Group Finance Director, Paul 
Hayes, the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton and the 
Group Development and HR Director, Martin Green, attended 
meetings by invitation in the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The Executive Directors or members of the Operations 
Executive are not present when their own remuneration   
is being considered.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, with the 
Chairman or the relevant Non-Executive Director abstaining 
when his or her remuneration is considered.
For further information regarding governance for the 
Remuneration Committee see pages 48 and 49 of this   
Annual Report.
External advisors
The Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP 
as the Committee’s appointed remuneration advisor during the 
year ended 31 December 2014. Deloitte have a wide range 
of experience and knowledge on executive remuneration for 
multinational companies such as the Company and are able 
to provide detailed background and context to enable the 
Committee to come to an informed decision on executive 
remuneration. This advice related to disclosures in the 2013 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, measurement of performance 
conditions associated with long-term incentive arrangements, 
a proposal to renew the Company’s LTIP and DBP at the 2014 
AGM and general remuneration advice. Deloitte’s total fees 
for 2014 work and advice relating to executive remuneration 
was £26,350 (2013: £58,800). Deloitte also provided other 
services to the Company during the year, including work and 
advice relating to expatriate tax, international relocations and 
corporate finance. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and operates under that group’s voluntary 
code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from 
Deloitte during 2014 has been objective and independent.  
The Committee also received advice and administrative 
support during 2014 from the Group Company Secretary, 
Jon Bolton, and the Group Business Development and HR 
Director, Martin Green.
This Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by  
the Remuneration Committee and signed on its behalf by: 
Carolyn Fairbairn
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
24 February 2015
Resolution For proxy 
votes and 
% of votes 
cast
Against proxy 
votes and % 
of votes cast 
Withheld 
proxy votes
Binding vote on 
Remuneration Policy 
Report
33,140,814 
(96%)
1,380,577 (4%) 2,210,503
Advisory vote on the 
Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 
December 2013
33,953,787 
(98.4%)
562,604 (1.6%) 2,215,503
Remuneration Report 74 The Vitec Group plc
Strategic Report
The statements and reviews on pages 1 to 39 comprise the 
Strategic Report which contains certain information, outlined below, 
that is incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference:
•  an indication of the Group’s likely future business developments;
•  an indication of the Group’s research and development activities;
•  information on the Group’s policies for the employment of disabled 
persons and employee involvement; and
•  the Group’s disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
Directors
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2014 and up to the 
date of this report are set out on pages 38 and 39 along with their 
photographs and biographies.
There were no changes to the Board during the year and up to the 
date of this report.
All current Directors, with the exception of Nigel Moore, will be 
standing for reappointment at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 
Tuesday, 12 May 2015. The remuneration of the Directors including 
their respective shareholdings in the Company is set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 73. 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and indemnification 
of Directors
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its Directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each 
of its Directors to the extent permitted by law. Qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 324 of the Companies 
Act 2006) were adopted on 16 March 2009 for those Directors on 
the Board at that time and have been agreed by all Directors joining 
the Board since that date. These indemnities remain in force in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may incur 
to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
Share capital
The Company has only ordinary shares of 20 pence nominal value  
in issue. Note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 
114 summarises the rights of the ordinary shares as well as the 
number issued during 2014. An analysis of shareholdings is  
shown on page 132. The closing middle market price of a share  
of the Company on 31 December 2014, together with the range 
during the year, is also shown on page 132. For details of own 
shares held by the Company see note 4.3 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 24 February 2015, the Company had been advised under the 
Disclosure and Transparency Regime, or had ascertained from its 
own analysis, that the following held interests of 3% or more of the 
voting rights of its issued share capital:
Committees of the Board
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. Details of these Committees, including membership 
and their activities during 2014 are contained in the Corporate 
Governance section of this Annual Report and in the 
Remuneration Report.
Corporate responsibility  
The Group’s report on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 
28 to 37. The Group has a Code of Business Conduct which has 
been communicated to all employees and is available on the 
Company’s website. The Group has also adopted specific policies 
which cover the following key areas: health and safety; risk and 
fraud; employment; whistleblowing; the environment; human rights; 
community impact and involvement; and relationships with 
suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. It regularly   
reviews these policies and revises them as and when necessary.
Corporate governance 
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages 40 to 55 
and forms part of this Directors’ Report.
Companies Act 2006 disclosures
In accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
Directors disclose the following information:
•  The Company’s capital structure and voting rights are summarised 
on page 114, and there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any 
agreement between holders of securities that result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights;
•  There exist no securities carrying special rights with regard to the 
control of the Company;
•  Details of the substantial shareholders and their shareholdings in 
the Company are listed above;
•  Shares awarded under the core award of the Company’s Deferred 
Bonus Plan are held in a nominee capacity by the Employee 
Benefit Trust (EBT). The Trustees of the EBT do not seek to 
exercise voting rights on shares held in the EBT. No voting 
rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual 
beneficiaries; 
•  The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of 
Directors, amendment to the Articles of Association and powers 
to issue or buy back the Company’s shares are contained in  
the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies 
Act 2006;
Directors’ Report
Shareholder Number of 
voting rights
% of voting 
rights
Delta Lloyd NV 6,514,780 14.70
Manfrotto 4,788,702 10.80
Aberforth Partners 4,636,607 10.46
Fidelity Investments 4,457,048 10.06
M&G Investment Management 2,860,966 6.45
Schroder Investment Management 2,381,738 5.37
Heronbridge Investment Management 2,240,049 5.05
JO Hambro Capital Management 2,154,255 4.86
Nmás1 2,116,142 4.77
Royal London Asset Management 2,074,092 4.68 75 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
•  There exist no agreements to which the Company is party that 
may affect its control following a takeover bid; and
•  There exist no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office that  
may occur because of a takeover bid.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the rights of 
shareholders including voting rights, distribution rights, attendance 
at general meetings, powers of directors, proceedings of directors 
as well as borrowing limits and other governance controls. A copy 
of the Articles of Association can be requested from the Group 
Company Secretary.
Conflicts of interest 
During the year no Director held any beneficial interest in any 
contract significant to the Company’s business, other than a 
contract of employment. The Company has procedures set out 
in the Articles of Association for managing conflicts of interest. 
Should a Director become aware that they, or their connected 
parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction 
with the Group, they are required to notify the Board as soon as 
reasonably practicable. 
Political donations 
Further to shareholder approval at the 2013 AGM empowering the 
Directors to make political donations, it is confirmed that no such 
donations were made in the year ended 31 December 2014.  
The Company’s policy is not to make political donations. 
Financial instruments 
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the 
Group and the exposure of the Group to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, and liquidity risk is outlined in note 4.2 to the 
consolidated financial statements in page 112.
Going concern 
The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and consider that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Directors 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•  For the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•  For the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in  
the parent company financial statements; and
•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy,  
at any time, the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
In addition, each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it 
provides all the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor  
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information (as defined in Section 418(2) of the 
Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
that information.
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
The 2015 AGM will be held at 10.00am on Tuesday, 12 May  
2015 at Prince Philip House, 3 Carlton House Terrace, London 
SW1Y 5DG.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees will be 
in attendance at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders. 
With the exception of Nigel Moore who will be retiring from the 
Board at the close of the 2015 AGM, all Directors will be standing 
for reappointment at the AGM.
The Company will be making use of the electronic voting facility 
provided by its registrars, Capita Asset Services. The facility 
includes CREST voting for members holding their shares in 
uncertificated form. For further information, please refer to the 
section on online services and electronic voting set out in the 
notes to the Notice of Meeting.
The notice of the AGM and an explanation of the resolutions 
to be put to the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting 
accompanying this Annual Report. The Board fully supports all the 
resolutions and encourages shareholders to vote in favour of each 
of them as they intend to in respect of their own shareholdings.
Auditor
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office  
as auditor and separate resolutions will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM concerning their reappointment and to authorise 
the Board to agree their remuneration. 
By order of the Board
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary
24 February 2015 76 The Vitec Group plc
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
members of The Vitec Group plc only
The risk Our response 
Carrying value of inventory 
(£55.0 million)  
Refer to note 3.3 of the 
financial statements
The inventory held at the year end covers a wide 
range of products and the demand for these and 
the ability of the Group to sell this inventory in the 
future may be adversely affected by many factors. 
Such factors include changes in customer and 
consumer preferences, competitor activity 
including pricing and the introduction of new 
products and technology. The risk is that the 
Group may not recover the cost of inventory  
via future sales, and may not hold appropriate 
provisions against obsolete and slow moving 
inventory. Accordingly, the net book value 
recorded may be materially incorrect.
Our audit procedures included:
•  inspecting the ageing of inventory to identify 
any slow moving inventory lines and we critically 
assessed whether appropriate provisions had 
been established for slow moving and obsolete 
inventory;
•  checking the average prices achieved on sales 
in the year across the range of product lines to 
test whether these exceeded the book value of 
inventory;
•  comparing the methodology and assumptions used 
by the Group in calculating the inventory provisions 
to those used in the prior years and, as part of this, 
we considered whether we would expect a change 
to the methodology and assumptions based on 
any changes to the current markets that the Group 
serves, noting the demand factors highlighted in 
this table;
•  considering the historical accuracy of provisions 
recorded by examining the utilisation or release     
of previously recorded provisions; and
•  considering the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures (see note 3.3 of the financial 
statements) in relation to inventory.
Recoverability of trade 
receivables (£37.2 million) 
  
Refer to note 3.3 of the 
financial statements
Vitec sells products to a wide customer base 
located across numerous countries each with 
different macroeconomic environments, and with 
no dependency on any one particular customer. 
The recoverability of trade receivables is dependent 
on the credit worthiness of customers and their 
ability to settle the amounts due. There is a risk of 
non-payment and non recovery of the amounts 
recorded as trade receivables at the year end. 
Accordingly provisions for bad debt are required 
for amounts that are no longer considered 
recoverable.
Our audit procedures included:
•  considering the appropriateness of the provisions 
for bad debt recorded against trade receivable 
balances with reference to the ageing of receivables 
and cash received after the year end;
•  considering the historical accuracy of provisions for 
bad debt recorded by examining the utilisation or 
release of previously recorded provisions; and 
•  considering the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures (see note 3.3 of the financial 
statements) in relation to provisions for risks 
concerning recoverability of trade receivables.
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of The Vitec Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 79 to 131. 
In our opinion: 
•   the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
•   the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union; 
•   the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
•   the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit are shown in the table below. 
For further reference to these risks, refer to pages 52 to 55 (Report from Nigel Moore, Chairman of the Audit Committee) and page 
86 (Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates). 77 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report
The risk Our response
Current tax liability       
(£6.1 million)
  
Refer to note 2.4 of the 
financial statements
The level of current tax liability recognised requires 
judgements as to the likely outcome of decisions 
to be made by the relevant tax authorities across 
the large number of tax jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. There is a risk that the judgements 
on which tax liabilities are based do not take into 
account or properly reflect the latest available tax 
information or an appropriate application of tax 
legislation, and as a result the Group’s tax liabilities 
are either over or understated.
Our audit procedures included:
•  challenging the appropriateness of the assumptions 
applied and estimates made in relation to current 
tax liabilities by considering the range of possible 
outcomes that may be assessed under the 
applicable tax laws;
•   involving our own tax specialists to assist in critically 
assessing the assumptions used by reference to 
international and local tax legislation in different 
jurisdictions; and
•  assessing whether the Group’s tax disclosures set 
out in note 2.4 of the financial statements are 
appropriate and in accordance with relevant 
accounting standards.
Acquisition accounting –
contingent considerations
 
Refer to note 3.4 of the 
financial statements
Establishing the fair value of the contingent 
considerations for SIS and SmallHD is inherently 
subjective as it involves future projections 
and requires estimation with regard to future 
performance. There is a risk that the key 
assumptions, estimates and judgements, in 
particular those relating to the forecast revenue 
growth and profit margins, on which the calculations 
are based are inappropriate and that as a result the 
associated goodwill is understated. In addition, any 
payments that would be made relating to contingent 
considerations shall be charged to the Income 
Statement as and when incurred.
Our audit procedures included:
•  inspecting the forecasts that were approved by the 
Board to support the acquisitions and assessing 
these against the actual performance in 2014 of SIS 
and SmallHD;
•  challenging the key assumptions underlying the 
future forecast by considering past performance, 
competition and projected growth;
•  considering the historical accuracy of budgets and 
forecasts prepared by the Group; and
•  considering the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures about the contingent consideration as 
set out in note 3.4 of the financial statements.
Independent Auditor’s Report
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £2.8 million. This has been determined with 
reference to a benchmark of Group gross revenue (of which  
it represents 1%). We consider revenue to be the most 
appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure 
year on year than Group profit before tax. We report to   
the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £0.14 million, in addition to other 
identified misstatements that warranted reporting on  
qualitative grounds.
The Group has over 50 reporting components and we 
subjected 26 in the UK, Italy and France to audits for Group 
reporting purposes and 6 in the UK, US and Costa Rica to 
specified risk-focused audit procedures. The latter were not 
individually financially significant enough to require an audit for 
Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual 
risks that needed to be addressed. These Group procedures 
covered 74% of Group revenue, 79% of Group profit before 
tax and 83% of Group total assets.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key 
reporting components of the Group were all performed to a 
materiality level of £2.0 million set by the Group audit team. 
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in  
these locations. These instructions covered the significant 
audit areas that should be covered by these audits (which 
included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed 
above) and set out the information required to be reported 
back to the Group audit team. The Group audit team visited 
reporting components in the following locations: UK, US and 
Italy. Telephone meetings were held with the auditors at all 
other reporting component locations.
The remaining 26% of Group revenue, 21% of Group profit 
before tax and 17% of Group total assets is represented by  
20 reporting components around the world. For the remaining 
components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group 
level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these.
In our audit report for the year ended 31 December 2013, we included Goodwill carrying value as one of the risks of material 
misstatement. While we continue to perform audit procedures over this matter, we considered this risk to be less significant in 
2014 as the impairment analysis for 2013 highlighted the level of headroom on all cash generating units. 78 The Vitec Group plc
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
•   the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
•   the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the Annual Report that contains  
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that  
is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
•   we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
•   the Corporate Governance Statement does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion: 
•   adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
•    the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
•   certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
•   we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•   the Directors’ statement, set out on page 75, in relation to 
going concern; and
•   the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages  
40 to 55 relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope of the report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of  
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on  
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this   
report as if set out in full and should be read to provide   
an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work  
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Robert Brent (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL
24 February 2015
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
members of The Vitec Group plc only  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Table of Contents
Primary Statements
 Consolidated Income Statement ............................. 80
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income .. 81
 Consolidated Balance Sheet ................................... 82
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity ........ 83
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows .................. 84
Section 1 - Basis of Preparation ...................................... 85
Section 2 - Results for the Year ....................................... 87
 2.1  Profit before tax  
(including segmental information) ...................... 87
 2.2  Restructuring costs and charges associated  
with acquired businesses .................................. 90
 2.3 Net finance expense ......................................... 90
 2.4 Tax ................................................................... 91
 2.5 Earnings per share ............................................ 94
Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities ................... 95
 3.1 Intangible assets ............................................... 95
 3.2 Property, plant and equipment .......................... 98
 3.3 Working capital ............................................... 100
 3.4 Acquisitions  ................................................... 102
 3.5 Disposals  ....................................................... 106
 3.6 Provisions ....................................................... 106
Section 4 - Capital Structure .......................................... 108
 4.1 Net debt ......................................................... 108
 4.2 Financial instruments ...................................... 109
 4.3 Share capital and reserves .............................. 114
Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes .............................. 115
 5.1 Employees ...................................................... 115
 5.2 Pensions ........................................................ 116
 5.3 Share-based payments .................................. 120
 5.4 Leases ............................................................ 122
 5.5 Related party transactions .............................. 122
 5.6 Principal Group investments ........................... 123
 5.7 Subsequent events ......................................... 123
The Vitec Group plc Company Financial Statements
 Company Balance Sheet ...................................... 124
 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 125
 Notes to the Company financial statements .......... 126
Five Year Financial Summary ............................................. 131
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar ........... 132
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in  
producing these notes together with any key judgements  
and estimates used. Text boxes provide an introduction  
to each section.
The notes are grouped under the following sections: 80 The Vitec Group plc
         2014 2013 
        Notes £m £m
Revenue          2.1   309.6   315.4 
Cost of sales          2.1   (181.7)  (181.3) 
Gross profit           127.9   134.1 
Operating expenses          2.1   (100.3)  (109.8) 
Operating profit          2.1   27.6   24.3 
 Comprising    
  - Operating profit before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses      38.8   39.5 
  - Restructuring costs          2.2   (2.7) (11.4) 
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses         2.2   (8.5) (3.8) 
            27.6   24.3 
Net finance expense          2.3   (3.5) (3.9) 
Loss on disposal of business           (4.0)   - 
Profit before tax           20.1   20.4 
 Comprising    
  - Profit before tax, excluding restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business    35.3   35.6 
  - Restructuring costs         2.2 (2.7) (11.4) 
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses        2.2 (8.5) (3.8) 
  - Loss on disposal of business         3.5 (4.0)   - 
            20.1   20.4 
Taxation          2.4   (7.1) (6.4) 
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent         13.0   14.0 
Earnings per share          2.5   
Basic earnings per share           29.4p   31.9p
Diluted earnings per share           29.3p   31.8p 
Average exchange rates    
Euro          1.24 1.17
US$          1.65 1.56
Consolidated Income Statement  
 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
 For the year ended 31 December 2014
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Profit for the year          13.0   14.0 
Other comprehensive income:  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:  
Remeasurements of defined benefit obligation         1.1  0.1 
Related tax          (0.2)  (0.3) 
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss:  
Foreign exchange gain recycled to the Income Statement on disposal of business       (5.2)  - 
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries        4.5  (2.8) 
Net investment hedges - net (loss)/gain          (2.0)   0.5 
Cash flow hedges - reclassified to the Income Statement         (2.2) (1.5) 
Cash flow hedges - effective portion of changes in fair value        (2.0)   2.6 
Related tax          1.3 (0.3) 
Other comprehensive expense, net of tax           (4.7) (1.7) 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent       8.3   12.3  82 The Vitec Group plc
         2014 2013 
        Notes £m £m
Assets    
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets          3.1   87.1   76.3 
Property, plant and equipment          3.2   54.8   53.5 
Trade and other receivables          3.3   0.5   0.4 
Derivative financial instruments          4.2   -   1.0 
Deferred tax assets          2.4   14.2   14.0 
            156.6   145.2 
Current assets    
Inventories          3.3   55.0   55.3 
Trade and other receivables          3.3   51.1   48.5 
Derivative financial instruments          4.2   1.5   2.5 
Current tax assets          2.4   1.0   2.7 
Cash and cash equivalents          4.1   9.2   12.9 
            117.8   121.9 
Total assets           274.4   267.1 
Liabilities    
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts          4.1   1.3   - 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings          4.1   0.1   - 
Trade and other payables          3.3   46.3   48.1 
Derivative financial instruments          4.2   2.5   0.1 
Current tax liabilities          2.4   6.1   5.2 
Provisions          3.6   9.2   6.5 
            65.5   59.9 
Non-current liabilities    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings          4.1   78.7   74.4 
Other payables          3.3   -   0.8 
Post-employment obligations          5.2   7.7   9.1 
Provisions          3.6   2.1   1.4 
Deferred tax liabilities          2.4   1.8   1.3 
             90.3   87.0 
Total liabilities           155.8   146.9 
Net assets           118.6   120.2 
Equity    
Share capital           8.9   8.8 
Share premium           13.4   12.1 
Translation reserve           (7.0)  (4.3) 
Capital redemption reserve           1.6   1.6 
Cash flow hedging reserve           (0.6)   2.3 
Retained earnings           102.3   99.7 
Total equity          4.3   118.6   120.2 
Balance Sheet exchange rates    
Euro          1.29 1.20
US$          1.56 1.66
Approved by the Board on 24 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by:   
Paul Hayes    
Group Finance Director    
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
       Capital Cash flow   
    Share Share Translation redemption hedging Retained Total 
    capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2014     8.8   12.1   (4.3)   1.6   2.3   99.7   120.2 
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year     -   -   -   -   -   13.0   13.0 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year     -   -   (2.7)   -   (2.9)   0.9  (4.7) 
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid     -   -   -   -   -   (10.3)  (10.3) 
Own shares purchased     -   -   -   -   -   (1.5)  (1.5) 
Share-based payment charge, net of tax     -   -   -   -   -   0.5   0.5 
New shares issued
 (1)
     0.1   1.3   -   -   -   -   1.4 
Balance at 31 December 2014      8.9   13.4   (7.0)   1.6   (0.6)   102.3   118.6 
        
Balance at 1 January 2013     8.8   10.4   (2.0)   1.6   1.5   94.3   114.6 
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year     -   -   -   -   -   14.0   14.0 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year     -   -   (2.3)   -   0.8   (0.2)  (1.7) 
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid     -   -   -   -   -   (9.8)  (9.8) 
Own shares purchased     -   -   -   -   -   (1.5)  (1.5) 
Share-based payment charge, net of tax     -   -   -   -   -   2.9   2.9 
New shares issued
 (1)
     -   1.7   -   -   -   -   1.7 
Balance at 31 December 2013     8.8   12.1   (4.3)   1.6   2.3   99.7   120.2 
(1)
  In 2014, the contingent consideration of Teradek was satisfied in part by the issue of new Vitec ordinary shares worth £0.5 million.  
In 2013, the acquisition of Teradek was funded in part by the issue of new Vitec ordinary shares worth £1.3 million. 84 The Vitec Group plc
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 For the year ended 31 December 2014
         2014 2013 
        Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities    
Profit for the year           13.0   14.0 
Adjustments for:     
  Taxation           7.1   6.4 
  Depreciation           14.2   12.4 
  Amortisation of intangible assets           5.3   4.5 
  Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software       (2.1)  (2.1) 
  Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments          0.2   - 
  Share-based payment charge           0.5   1.4 
  Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration since date of acquisition        4.2   0.8 
  Disposal of business           4.0   - 
  Net finance expense           3.5   3.9 
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions         49.9   41.3 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories           (2.1)   4.9 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables           (2.7)   1.8 
(Decrease)/increase in payables           (2.1)   3.1 
(Decrease)/increase in provisions           (1.0)   1.3 
Cash generated from operating activities           42.0   52.4 
Interest paid           (3.3)  (3.6) 
Tax paid           (3.5)  (8.5) 
Net cash from operating activities           35.2   40.3 
Cash flows from investing activities     
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and software         5.2   3.8 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment           (17.5)  (19.3) 
Capitalisation of software and development costs          (4.7)  (3.4) 
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired         3.4   (13.3)  (8.5) 
Disposal of business           (1.3)   - 
Net cash used in investing activities           (31.6)  (27.4) 
Cash flows from financing activities     
Proceeds from the issue of shares           0.9   0.4 
Own shares purchased           (1.5)  (1.5) 
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings          2.4   1.9 
Dividends paid           (10.3)  (9.8) 
Net cash used in financing activities           (8.5)  (9.0) 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents         4.1   (4.9)   3.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January           12.9   9.3 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held          (0.1)  (0.3) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December          7.9   12.9  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
This section lays out the Group’s accounting policies that 
relate to the financial statements as a whole. Where an 
accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is 
described in the note to which it relates. 
The Vitec Group plc (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2014 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to 
as the “Group”).
As required by EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) the Group 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
EU (“IFRS”), and have been approved by the Directors.
The financial statements are principally prepared on the basis of 
historical cost. Areas where other bases are applied are identified 
in the accounting policy outlined in the relevant note.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP .
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Strategic Report. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review. In addition, note 4.2 “Financial 
Instruments” includes the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and its exposure to foreign currency risks, interest  
rate risks and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, including 
undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year of £63.5 million 
(see note 4.2 “Financial Instruments”). The Directors believe that  
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled 
by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the rights to 
variable returns from its involvement with an entity and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.  
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year  
are included in the financial statements up to, or from,  
the date that control exists.
Foreign currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling 
with the reporting currency of the Group’s subsidiaries generally 
being that of the local country. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated 
at the year end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in 
the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such 
differences are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost 
are translated at the exchange rate on the day of the transaction, 
unless they are stated at fair value in which case they are 
translated at the exchange rate of the day the fair value was 
determined.
The assets and liabilities of overseas companies, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation,  
are translated at the year end exchange rate. 
The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated 
at the weighted average exchange rate for the year. Where 
differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in the 
translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income. 
The cash flows of these companies are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rate for the year. 
In the consolidated financial statements, currency translation  
gains and losses on external loans and borrowings and on  
long-term inter-company loans that form part of the net investment 
in the subsidiaries are recognised directly in the translation reserve 
within equity and other comprehensive income.
In respect of all overseas companies, only those translation 
differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition  
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.  
On disposal of such a company, the related translation reserve  
is released to the Income Statement as part of the gain or loss  
on disposal. 86 The Vitec Group plc
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
 
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
The following provides information on those policies that the 
Directors consider critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding 
future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The 
Directors review the judgements and estimates on an ongoing 
basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the 
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods 
affected. The Directors believe that the consolidated financial 
statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and 
provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and 
financial position.
Working capital
Provisions over trade receivables are maintained to reflect 
expected credit losses based on collection history and specific 
risks identified on a customer-by-customer basis. Provisions 
against slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory are estimated 
to reflect its net realisable value. See note 3.3 “Working Capital”.
Pension benefits
The actuarial valuations associated with the pension schemes 
involve making assumptions about discount rates, future salary 
increases, future pension increases and mortality rates. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. Further details 
about the assumptions used are set out in Note 5.2 “Pensions”.
Impairment testing
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment 
are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including 
discount rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently 
subjective. Details about the assumptions used are set out in note 
3.1 “Intangible assets”.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method, 
based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets, liabilities 
and assumed contingent considerations are measured at fair 
value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities 
based on these fair values. IFRS 3 requires the identification of 
acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The 
methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of 
estimates including forecast performance. Accordingly determining 
the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and assumed 
contigent considerations involves the use of significant estimates 
and assumptions (including discount rates, asset lives and 
recoverability and forecast performance). Details concerning the 
acquisitions made in the year are set out in note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. 
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in 
determining the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
Tax benefits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against 
which temporary differences and unused tax losses can be 
utilised. Details on the tax charge and assets and liabilities 
recorded are set out in note 2.4 “Tax”.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are no new standards, amendments to standards or 
interpretations which are expected to have a significant impact  
on the financial statements of the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2014 or in the foreseeable future. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87
This section focuses on the profitability of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures relating to  
the following:  
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)   
2.2 Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses   
2.3 Net finance expense   
2.4 Tax   
2.5 Earnings per share   
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
This shows the analysis of the Group’s Profit before tax by reference to its two Divisions. Further segmental  
information and an analysis of key operating expenses are also shown here.  
Accounting policies
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is stated exclusive of sales tax and consists of sales to third parties after an allowance for returns, trade discounts  
and volume rebates.   
Goods and services sold   
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when both the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred  
to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. This is normally when title passes to the customer.   
Revenue from rental of assets is recognised over the duration of the rental contract, on a straight line basis, at the amount  
billed to the customer.   
Section 2 – Results for the Year  88 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
 2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
Segment reporting
The Group has two reportable segments which are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the  
Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board). Further details on the nature of these segments and the products and 
services they provide are contained in the Strategic Report.      
        Corporate and   
    Broadcast
 (1)  
Photographic 
(2)
 unallocated Consolidated
   Videocom Services Total Broadcast
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:          
  Sales   133.4   140.0   12.7   9.4   146.1   149.4   130.9   141.2   -   -   277.0   290.6 
  Services   6.1   3.1   26.5   21.7   32.6   24.8   -   -   -   -   32.6   24.8 
Total revenue from external customers  139.5   143.1   39.2   31.1   178.7   174.2   130.9   141.2   -   -   309.6   315.4 
Inter-segment revenue
 (3)
  1.6   2.2   0.1   -   1.7   2.2   0.3   0.6   (2.0)   (2.8)   -   - 
Total revenue  141.1   145.3   39.3   31.1   180.4   176.4   131.2   141.8   (2.0)   (2.8)   309.6   315.4 
Segment result  17.5   17.9   2.4   1.5   19.9   19.4   18.9   20.1   -   -   38.8   39.5 
Restructuring costs  (1.4)   (5.3)   -   (0.5)   (1.4)   (5.8)   (1.3)   (5.6)   -   -   (2.7)  (11.4) 
Fair value adjustment to contingent  
consideration since date of acquisition  (4.2)   (0.8)   -   -   (4.2)   (0.8)    -   -   -   (4.2)  (0.8) 
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions  (0.9)   (0.4)   -   -   (0.9)   (0.4)   -   -   -   -   (0.9)  (0.4) 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets  (3.0)   (2.2)   -   -   (3.0)   (2.2)   (0.4)   (0.4)   -   -   (3.4)  (2.6) 
Operating profit  8.0   9.2   2.4   1.0   10.4   10.2   17.2   14.1   -   -   27.6   24.3 
Net finance expense              (3.5)  (3.9) 
Loss on disposal of IMT business
 (1)
                     (4.0)   - 
Taxation              (7.1)  (6.4) 
Profit for the year              13.0   14.0 
Segment assets  130.6   120.5   31.4   26.2   162.0   146.7   84.9   85.5   3.1   5.3   250.0   237.5 
Unallocated assets              
  Cash and cash equivalents             9.2   12.9   9.2   12.9 
  Current tax assets             1.0   2.7   1.0   2.7 
  Deferred tax assets             14.2   14.0   14.2   14.0 
Total assets              274.4   267.1 
Segment liabilities  27.8   27.0   4.3   6.6   32.1   33.6   25.2   25.3   10.5   7.1   67.8   66.0 
Unallocated liabilities              
  Bank overdrafts             1.3   -   1.3   - 
  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings             78.8   74.4   78.8   74.4 
  Current tax liabilities             6.1   5.2   6.1   5.2 
  Deferred tax liabilities             1.8   1.3   1.8   1.3 
Total liabilities              155.8   146.9 
Cash flows from operating activities  14.4   14.8   3.8   6.8   18.2   21.6   14.6   15.3   2.4   3.4   35.2   40.3 
Cash flows from investing activities  (19.1)   (13.5)   (7.9)   (7.8)   (27.0)   (21.3)   (4.4)   (5.8)   (0.2)   (0.3)   (31.6)  (27.4) 
Cash flows from financing activities  -   -   -   -   -   -   0.9   -   (9.4)   (9.0)   (8.5)  (9.0) 
Capital expenditure               
  Property, plant and equipment   2.2   3.7   12.8   11.4   15.0   15.1   2.5   4.2   -   -   17.5   19.3 
  Software and development costs   2.6   1.7   0.1   0.1   2.7   1.8   2.0   1.6   -   -   4.7   3.4 
(1)
  The Broadcast Division was previously presented as the Videocom and Services Divisions, and is now managed as one Division. The Videocom Division and the 
Services Division have been disclosed separately for comparative purposes. This includes the IMT business which was previously recorded within the Videocom 
Division and was sold by the Group during the second half of 2014.
(2)
 The Photographic Division was previously called the Imaging Division. 
(3)
 Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in either 2014 or 2013. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89
Geographical segments  
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Analysis of revenue from external customers, by location of customer  
United Kingdom          27.6   26.5 
The rest of Europe          69.7   71.6 
North America          143.3   142.0 
Asia-Pacific          53.3   56.8 
The rest of the World          15.7   18.5 
Total revenue from external customers          309.6   315.4 
The Group’s operations are located in several geographical locations, and sell products and services on to external customers  
in all parts of the world.
Operating expenses  
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Analysis of operating expenses   
  - Restructuring costs
 (1)
          1.8   6.9 
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses         8.5   3.8 
  - Other administrative expenses           39.8   43.7 
Administrative expenses          50.1   54.4 
Marketing, selling and distribution costs          41.5   46.0 
Research, development and engineering costs         8.7   9.4 
Operating expenses          100.3   109.8 
(1)
  Of the total £2.7 million (2013: £11.4 million) restructuring costs, £1.8 million (2013: £6.9 million) is included in operating expenses and the remaining  
£0.9 million (2013: £4.5 million) in cost of sales.
Operating profit  
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
The following items are included in operating profit  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements     0.1   0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services  
  - The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation        0.4   0.4 
  - Transaction and other services          0.2   0.2  90 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
2.2 Restructing costs and charges associated with acquired businesses 
Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses are excluded from key performance measures in order  
to more accurately show the underlying current business performance of the Group in a consistent manner. This also reflects 
how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis. Restructuring costs include employment termination  
and other site rationalisation costs. Charges associated with acquired businesses include non-cash charges such as 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and cash charges such as transaction costs and fair value adjustments to 
contingent consideration since date of acquisition.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Restructuring costs
 (1)
          (2.7)  (11.4) 
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration since date of acquisition
 (2)
       (4.2)  (0.8) 
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions
 (3) 
         (0.9)  (0.4) 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets          (3.4)  (2.6) 
Charges associated with acquired businesses         (8.5)  (3.8) 
(1)
  One-off restructuring costs of £2.7 million primarily relate to the Group streamlining certain operations by downsizing selected activities mainly in the US and Israel. 
This includes employment termination costs of £0.9 million and other site rationalisation and closure costs of £1.8 million. These actions have better positioned the 
Group for the future.
(2)
  A charge of £4.2 million (US$7.0 million) has been recorded in respect of contingent consideration of Teradek, a prior period acquisition.  
See note 3.6 “Provisions”.
(3)
  Transaction costs of £0.9 million (SIS: £0.1 million, Autocue: £0.6 million, SmallHD: £0.2 million) were incurred in relation to acquisitions in the year.  
See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
2.3 Net finance expense  
This note details the finance income and expense generated from the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
Accounting policies
Net finance expense comprises:   
 - interest payable on borrowings and interest receivable on funds invested;    
 - the amortisation of loan costs; 
 - other interest receivable;       
 - foreign exchange gains and losses on cash and inter-company loans that are not net investment hedges; and   
 - net interest expense on net defined benefit scheme liabilities. 
Net finance expense  
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Finance income   
Other interest receivable          0.3   - 
Net currency translation gains          0.1   - 
            0.4   - 
Finance expense   
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings        (3.6)  (3.6) 
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities
 (1)
       (0.3)  (0.3) 
            (3.9)  (3.9) 
Net finance expense          (3.5)  (3.9) 
(1)
 See note 5.2 “Pensions” .  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91
2.4 Tax 
This note lays out the tax accounting policies, the total tax charge or credit in the Income Statement, and tax assets and 
tax liabilities in the Balance Sheet. This includes amounts relating to deferred tax.
Accounting policies
Income tax
The tax expense in the Income Statement represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.     
  
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of  
previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax 
provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax  
rates substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.     
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carried forward unused tax credits and unused  
tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences,  
and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, can be utilised.       
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent  
of the probable level of taxable profit that would be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.   
    
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the following temporary differences:       
 -  Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and  
 -  Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal is controlled by the  
Company and they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Tax - Income Statement  
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
The total taxation charge/(credit) in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:      
Before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business
Current tax          7.0   11.2 
Deferred tax           3.6  (0.2) 
            10.6   11.0 
Restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business   
Current tax
 (1)
          (0.7)  (4.6) 
Deferred tax
 (2)
          (2.8)  - 
            (3.5)  (4.6) 
Summarised in the Income Statement as follows      
Current tax          6.3   6.6 
Deferred tax           0.8  (0.2) 
            7.1   6.4 
(1)
  Current tax credits of £0.7 million (2013 £4.6 million) were recognised in respect of restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and  
disposal of business. This tax credit is split between restructuring costs of £0.4 million (2013 £3.5 million) and amortisation of intangible assets in the period  
of £0.3 million (2013 £1.1 million).
(2)
  Deferred tax credits of £2.8 million (2013 £nil) were recognised in respect of restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of 
business. This is made up of £1.6 million in respect of acquisitions (including the Teradek earnout), £0.3 million in respect of restructuring costs and £0.9 million  
in respect of amortisation of intangible assets. 92 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
 2.4 Tax
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Current tax expense        
Charge for the year          7.3   6.8 
Adjustments in respect of prior years          (1.0)  (0.2) 
Total current tax expense           6.3   6.6 
The UK current tax charge represents £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million) of the total Group current tax charge of £6.3 million (2013: £6.6 
million), with the remaining £6.2 million (2013: £6.5 million) charge relating to overseas tax. The UK corporate tax rate reduced from 23% 
to 21% on 1 April 2014 and a further reduction in the rate to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015 has been substantively enacted.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Deferred tax expense        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences        0.8 (0.2) 
The UK deferred tax charge represents £0.1 million (2013: £0.4 million credit) of the total Group deferred tax charge of £0.8 million  
(2013: £0.2 million credit), with the remaining £0.7 million (2013: £0.2 million) charge relating to overseas tax.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Tax charge/(credit) recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)      
Current tax recognised in SOCIE
 (3)
          (0.2)  (1.4) 
Deferred tax recognised in SOCIE
 (4)
          (0.9)   0.5 
            (1.1)  (0.9) 
(3) 
 Excess current tax deductions of £0.2 million related to share-based payments on exercised options have been reflected in the SOCIE.  
(4)  
Deferred tax credits relating to the impact of cash flow hedges of £1.3 million partially offset by a £0.2 million charge in respect of the UK and German defined 
benefit pension schemes and a £0.2 million charge in respect of the reversal of prior year estimated excess tax deductions related to share-based payments, 
have been reflected in the SOCIE.          
 
         2014 2013 
Reconciliation of Group tax charge         £m £m
Profit before tax          20.1   20.4 
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate at 21.5% (2013: 23.3%)       4.3   4.7 
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions          (0.3)   - 
Non-deductible expenses          0.7   0.6 
Impact of tax credits in respect of prior years         (1.0)  (0.4) 
Impact of tax losses not recognised          3.6   1.2 
Other          (0.2)   0.3 
Total income tax expense in Income Statement          7.1   6.4  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93
Tax - Balance Sheet 
Current tax 
The current tax liability of £6.1 million (2013: £5.2 million) represents the amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and  
prior periods. The current tax assets of £1.0 million (2013: £2.7 million) mainly relate to income tax receivable in the UK and the US. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
      Recognised Recognised Recognised   
      in on in Exchange  
     2014 income acquisitions reserves movements 2013 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories      2.5   (0.4)  - - -  2.9 
Intangible assets      (5.1)   (2.2)   (0.7)  -  (0.1)  (2.1) 
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      6.3   1.9  - -  0.3   4.1 
Property, plant, equipment & other      10.5   0.3  -  0.9   0.2   9.1 
        14.2   (0.4)   (0.7)   0.9   0.4   14.0 
Liabilities      
Intangible assets      (1.8)   (0.4)  - -  (0.1)  (1.3) 
        (1.8)   (0.4)   -   -   (0.1)  (1.3) 
Net       12.4   (0.8)   (0.7)   0.9   0.3   12.7 
      Recognised Recognised Eliminated   
      in on on Exchange  
     2013 income acquisitions disposals movements 2012 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories      2.9   (0.3)   0.3   -   -   2.9 
Intangible assets      (2.1)   (0.5)   (0.4)   -   0.1  (1.3) 
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      4.1   0.1   -   -   (0.1)   4.1 
Property, plant, equipment & other      9.1   1.1   0.1   (0.5)   (0.3)   8.7 
        14.0   0.4   -   (0.5)   (0.3)   14.4 
Liabilities      
Intangible assets      (1.3)   (0.2)   -   -   0.1  (1.2) 
        (1.3)   (0.2)   -   -   0.1  (1.2) 
Net      12.7   0.2   -   (0.5)   (0.2)   13.2 
Deferred tax assets have been offset against liabilities where assets and liabilities arise in the same jurisdiction and there is a legal  
right of offset.
Deferred tax assets totalling £9.5 million (2013: £9.0 million) have been recognised in the US on the basis that future profits are expected 
to be made in the US businesses such that it is probable that these assets will be utilised in the foreseeable future.   
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Losses          14.5   8.9 
Temporary differences on share options          -   0.2 
Total          14.5   9.1 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not sufficiently probable that these assets will reverse in 
the foreseeable future.
No taxes have been provided for liabilities which may arise on the distribution of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries on the basis of control, 
except where distributions of such profits are planned. Cumulative unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates totalled 
approximately £15.9 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £13.5 million). It is not practical to calculate the tax which would arise on remittance 
of these amounts and, as dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries to the UK should be exempt from additional UK tax, no significant tax 
charges would be expected.         94 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the Year
2.5 Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year.      
Diluted EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year, but adjusted for the effects of dilutive share options. The key features of share option contracts are 
described in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
The Adjusted EPS measure is used by management to assess the underlying performance of the ongoing businesses,  
and therefore excludes restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business,  
all net of tax.
The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below:
         2014 2013 
Profit         £m £m
Profit for the financial year          13.0   14.0 
Add back:      
Restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses, net of tax       7.7   10.6 
Loss on disposal of IMT business, net of tax         4.0   - 
Earnings before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business     24.7   24.6 
     Weighted average number Adjusted earnings 
     of shares ’000  per share Earnings per share
     2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 
     Number Number pence pence pence pence
Basic       44,190   43,869   55.9   56.1   29.4   31.9 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares      68   204   (0.1)   (0.2)   (0.1)  (0.1) 
Diluted      44,258   44,073   55.8   55.9   29.3   31.8  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
This section shows the assets and liabilities used to  
generate the Group’s trading performance. Liabilities  
relating to the Group’s financing activities are addressed  
in Section 4. Current tax and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are shown in Section 2.4 “Tax”.   
On the following pages, there are disclosures covering  
the following:   
3.1 Intangible assets    
3.2 Property, plant and equipment    
3.3 Working capital    
3.4 Acquisitions    
3.5 Disposals    
3.6 Provisions
3.1 Intangible assets
This shows the non-physical assets used by the Group  
to generate revenues and profits. These assets include  
the following:   
 - Goodwill    
 - Acquired intangible assets    
 - Software    
 - Capitalised development costs    
Accounting policies
Goodwill 
The goodwill recognised by the Group has all arisen as a result of 
acquisitions and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is allocated on acquisition to cash-generating 
units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination, and is 
not subject to amortisation but is tested annually for impairment. 
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates. This estimate 
of recoverable amount is determined at each Balance Sheet date.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant 
assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors 
such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating 
unit, including both its operating profit and cash flow performance. 
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is 
less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. 
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.    
All acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2010 are 
accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill on 
these acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the 
acquisition over the fair value to the Group of the identifiable net 
assets acquired, all measured at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired can be made 
within 12 months of the acquisition date where original fair values 
were determined provisionally. These adjustments are accounted for 
from the date of acquisition. Transaction costs that the Group incurs 
in connection with an acquisition, such as legal fees, due diligence 
fees and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed  
as incurred.   
Other intangible assets   
The other intangible assets are either acquired or internally 
generated (such as capitalised development costs).
Acquired intangible assets   
Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated 
amortisation at the rates indicated below:   
Order backlog up to 2 years
Brand 3 to 15 years
Customer relationships 3 to 10 years
Technology 3 to 10 years
Software 
The cost of acquiring software (including associated 
implementation and development costs where applicable) is 
classified as an intangible asset. Costs that are directly associated 
with the production of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group, and that are assessed as likely to 
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year,  
are also capitalised and recognised as intangible assets. Costs 
associated with maintaining computer software programmes are 
recognised as an expense as incurred. Software expenditure is 
amortised over its estimated useful life of between 3 to 5 years, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.
Capitalised development costs   
Research and development costs are charged to the Income 
Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless 
development expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation. 
Once detailed and strict criteria have been met that confirm  
that the product or process is both technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete  
the project, any further expenditure incurred on the project is 
capitalised. The capitalised expenditure includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overheads. 
Capitalised expenditure is amortised over the life of the project, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. 96 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
 3.1 Intangible assets
Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) 
containing goodwill   
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of 
Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs which are 
identified by the way goodwill is monitored for impairment.  
The most significant elements of the Group’s total consolidated 
goodwill of £61.3 million at 31 December 2014 are allocated to: 
Vitec Videocom: £27.0 million (2013: £23.4 million); Photographic: 
£12.9 million (2013: £12.6 million); and Haigh-Farr: £13.3 million 
(2013: £12.5 million). Vitec Videocom and Haigh-Farr CGUs sit 
within the Broadcast segment and the Photographic CGU sits 
within the Photographic segment. The remaining goodwill  
relates to CGUs which are not individually significant. Each CGU  
is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is a 
specific indication of impairment. The carrying value of the 
remaining CGUs exceed their recoverable amounts.
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value  
of goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use over 
a projected period of five years together with a terminal value.  
This reflects the projected cash flows of each CGU based on the 
actual operating results, the most recent Board approved budget, 
strategic plans and management projections.  
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are 
based relate to business performance over the next five years, 
long-term growth rates beyond 2018 and the discount rates 
applied. The key judgements are the level of revenue and 
operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating 
profit converted into cash flow in each year. Forecasts  
are based on past experience and take into account current  
and future market conditions and opportunities.
Growth rates for the period beyond 2019 are assumed to be  
2% (2013: 2%), which is considered to be at or below long-term 
market trends for significant CGUs.    
The cash flow projections have been discounted to present  
value using the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of  
capital adjusted for economic and CGU-specific risk factors 
including markets and size of business. Pre-tax rates of 9% to 
11% (2013: 10% to 12%) reflecting different geographies have 
been used for impairment testing (9% (2013: 10%) applied to  
the Haigh-Farr CGU and 11% (2013: 12%) applied to the  
Vitec Videocom and Photographic CGUs).   
The following specific individual sensitivities of reasonable possible 
change have been considered for each CGU in relation to the 
value in use calculations, resulting in the carrying amount not 
exceeding the recoverable amount: 
 -  if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1%; 
and   
 - a 1% point increase in the discount rate applied.    Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97
Intangible assets
        Acquired  Capitalised 
        intangible  development 
      Total Goodwill  assets Software costs 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Cost         
At 1 January 2013       126.8   65.4   46.0   13.0   2.4 
Currency translation adjustments       (2.6)   (1.1)   (1.4)   -  (0.1) 
Additions       3.5   0.1   -   1.0   2.4 
Disposals       (0.4)   -   -   (0.4)   - 
Acquisitions
 (1)
       10.6   4.5   6.1   -   - 
At 31 December 2013       137.9   68.9   50.7   13.6   4.7 
At 1 January 2014       137.9   68.9   50.7   13.6   4.7 
Currency translation adjustments       4.5   2.8   2.0   (0.4)   0.1 
Additions       4.7   -   -   1.3   3.4 
Disposals       (0.1)   -   -   (0.1)   - 
Disposals - on divestment of business       (28.5)   (8.7)   (17.9)   -  (1.9) 
Acquisitions
 (1)
       8.9   3.1   5.8   -   - 
At 31 December 2014       127.4   66.1   40.6   14.4   6.3 
Amortisation      
At 1 January 2013       58.6   13.1   34.0   10.2   1.3 
Currency translation adjustment       (1.2)   (0.2)   (1.0)   -   - 
Amortisation in the year       4.5   -   2.6   1.2   0.7 
Disposals       (0.3)   -   -   (0.3)   - 
At 31 December 2013       61.6   12.9   35.6   11.1   2.0 
At 1 January 2014       61.6   12.9   35.6   11.1   2.0 
Currency translation adjustment       1.7   0.6   1.4   (0.3)   - 
Amortisation in the year       5.3   -   3.4   1.1   0.8 
Disposals       (0.1)   -   -   (0.1)   - 
Disposals - on divestment of business       (28.2)   (8.7)   (17.9)   -  (1.6) 
At 31 December 2014       40.3   4.8   22.5   11.8   1.2 
Carrying amounts     
At 1 January 2013       68.2   52.3   12.0   2.8   1.1 
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014       76.3   56.0   15.1   2.5   2.7 
At 31 December 2014       87.1   61.3   18.1   2.6   5.1 
(1)
  See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.      98 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
This shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include the following:  
 - Land and buildings    
 - Plant, machinery and vehicles    
 - Equipment, fixtures and fittings      
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Certain land and buildings  
that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, 
being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.
Rental assets are recorded as plant and machinery.
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over 
their estimated useful lives. The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and expected residual 
value at the end of its life. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows:  
Freehold land     not depreciated
Freehold and long leasehold buildings     up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements     shorter of estimated useful life or remaining period of the lease
Plant and machinery     4 to 10 years
Motor vehicles     3 to 4 years
Equipment, fixtures and fittings     3 to 10 years
Rental assets     3 to 6 years 
Impairment of assets   
Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment may include changes in technology and market conditions. 
   Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99
Property, plant and equipment        
         Plant, Equipment, 
        Land machinery fixtures 
        and and and 
       Total buildings vehicles fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2013         143.4   29.6   97.8   16.0 
Currency translation adjustments         0.1   0.2   -  (0.1) 
Transfers between asset categories         -   -   (0.1)   0.1 
Additions         19.3   1.5   17.0   0.8 
Disposals         (20.2)   (0.2)   (18.9)  (1.1) 
At 31 December 2013         142.6   31.1   95.8   15.7 
At 1 January 2014         142.6   31.1   95.8   15.7 
Currency translation adjustments         (0.3)   (0.7)   0.6  (0.2) 
Additions         17.5   0.3   16.3   0.9 
Disposals         (16.8)   -   (16.0)  (0.8) 
Disposals - on divestment of business         (2.4)   -   (0.6)  (1.8) 
Acquisitions         1.5   -   1.5   - 
At 31 December 2014         142.1   30.7   97.6   13.8 
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2013         94.8   13.0   70.8   11.0 
Currency translation adjustment         0.5   0.1   0.5  (0.1) 
Transfers between asset categories         -   -   (0.2)   0.2 
Depreciation charge in the year         12.4   1.4   9.6   1.4 
Disposals         (18.6)   (0.1)   (17.5)  (1.0) 
At 31 December 2013         89.1   14.4   63.2   11.5 
At 1 January 2014         89.1   14.4   63.2   11.5 
Currency translation adjustment         (1.1)   (0.5)   (0.4)  (0.2) 
Depreciation charge in the year         14.2   1.4   11.8   1.0 
Disposals         (13.7)   -   (12.9)  (0.8) 
Disposals - on divestment of business         (1.2)   -   (0.6)  (0.6) 
At 31 December 2014         87.3   15.3   61.1   10.9 
Carrying amounts     
At 1 January 2013         48.6   16.6   27.0   5.0 
At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014         53.5   16.7   32.6   4.2 
At 31 December 2014         54.8   15.4   36.5   2.9 
Plant, machinery and vehicles includes equipment rental assets with an original cost of £47.2 million (2013: £42.5 million) and 
accumulated depreciation of £24.1 million (2013: £24.8 million).    
Capital commitments at 31 December 2014 for which no provision has been made in the accounts amount to £0.2 million (2013:  
£0.5 million).     100 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.3 Working capital
Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activities. The Group therefore 
defines working capital as inventory, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables.    
Careful management of working capital is vital as it ensures that the Group can meet its trading and financing obligations 
within its ordinary operating cycle.  
Accounting policies
Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business combinations 
is valued at fair value. Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to bring 
the inventory to its existing location and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress cost includes an appropriate 
share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is accounted for on an average cost or first-in, first-out method  
as appropriate. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion  
and selling expenses. Provisions for inventories are recognised when the book value exceeds its net realisable value.   
In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised at the invoice value less provision for impairment. The carrying value of trade receivables is 
considered to approximate fair value.   
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that amounts due will not be collected according to the original 
terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired.   
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
Inventories
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Raw materials and components          15.0   14.8 
Work in progress          8.6   9.3 
Finished goods          31.4   31.2 
Inventories, net of impairment provisions          55.0   55.3 
During the year £3.3 million (2013: £5.5 million) was recognised as an expense resulting from the write-down of inventory. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101
Trade and other receivables
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Short-term receivables   
Trade receivables, net of impairment provisions         37.2   35.8 
Other receivables          8.5   8.9 
Prepayments and accrued income          5.4   3.8 
            51.1   48.5 
Long-term receivables   
Other receivables          0.5   0.4 
Total receivables          51.6   48.9 
   
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Gross trade receivables - days overdue
 (1)
 
Current          31.2   30.2 
1-30 days          5.7   5.8 
31-60 days          1.4   1.2 
61-90 days          0.3   0.4 
over 90 days          1.4   1.4 
Gross trade receivables          40.0   39.0 
(1)
 Days overdue are measured from the date an invoice was due to be paid.
          Sales 
          returns and 
        Total Bad debts discounts 
        £m £m £m
Impairment provisions against trade receivables   
Balance at 1 January 2014         3.2   1.8   1.4 
Net increase during the year         3.6   0.3   3.3 
Utilised during the year         (4.0)   (0.3)  (3.7) 
Balance at 31 December 2014         2.8   1.8   1.0 
Trade and other payables
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Current trade and other payables  
Trade payables          26.5   25.1 
Other tax and social security costs          2.7   2.6 
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income         17.1   20.4 
            46.3   48.1 
Long-term payables   
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income         -   0.8 
Total payables          46.3   48.9 
    102 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.4 Acquisitions
This note outlines how the Group has accounted for businesses that it has acquired.   
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. As part of the acquisition accounting the 
Group has adopted a process to identify the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities and contingent considerations 
assumed. This includes the separate identification of intangible assets and to allocate the consideration paid. This process 
continues as information is finalised, and accordingly the fair value adjustments presented in the tables below are provisional.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 until the assessment is complete the allocation period will remain open up to a maximum of  
12 months from the acquisition date so long as information remains outstanding. Acquisition-related costs are recognised  
in the Income Statement as incurred in accordance with IFRS 3.   
Acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns. Such 
opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses represent much of the assessed value  
of goodwill.  
Acquisition of SIS 
On 24 March 2014, the Broadcast Division of the Group acquired the assets of the Speciality Cameras division of SIS Outside 
Broadcasts Limited (SIS) through a business combination for a cash consideration of £1.8 million.    
The acquired speciality camera assets are renowned for the innovative solutions that deliver viewers to the heart of live events.  
The acquisition complements the Group’s existing range of broadcast equipment and its products will be marketed through the  
Group’s global distribution network.    
Under the terms of the acquisition, there is a potential contingent consideration of up to £1.4 million that is dependent on the 
performance against demanding revenue targets for certain future events by the year 2017. Management’s assessment at the 
acquisition date is that £nil will be payable. Any payment that would be made shall be charged to the Income Statement as and  
when incurred.    
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of SIS is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -   0.4   0.4 
Property, plant and equipment         1.2    1.2 
           1.2   0.4   1.6 
Goodwill           0.2 
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources          1.8 
No net deferred tax asset or liability has arisen on the net assets acquired.
Acquisition of Autocue 
On 6 October 2014, the Group acquired the whole of the issued and to be issued share capital of Autocue Group Limited (Autocue),  
a private company based in the UK, for a net cash consideration of £6.1 million after taking account of £2.4 million of cash in the 
business at acquisition date.   
Autocue is a long established and highly respected brand of teleprompting hardware and software. The acquisition complements  
the Group’s existing Autoscript business and enables it to diversify its product base by extending its range of prompting solutions  
from broadcast to pro-videography. Autocue operates within the Broadcast Division.     Annual Report & Accounts 2014 103
A summary of the effect of the acquisition Autocue is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -   3.6   3.6 
Inventories         0.3   -   0.3 
Trade and other receivables         0.5   -   0.5 
Trade and other payables         (0.5)   (0.5) 
Corporation tax receivable         0.1    0.1 
Cash         2.4   -   2.4 
Deferred tax         -   (0.7)  (0.7) 
           2.8   2.9   5.7 
Goodwill           2.8 
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources          8.5 
The trade receivables acquired had a fair value and a gross contractual value of £0.4 million.  
Acquisition of SmallHD 
On 10 December 2014, the Group acquired the net assets of SmallHD, based in the US, through a business combination for an initial 
cash consideration of US$4.6 million (£2.9 million).    
SmallHD is a leading provider of high-quality and high-definition on-camera field monitors used by broadcasters and independent content 
creators. The acquisition complements the Group’s existing video activities, including Teradek, which serves a similar customer base and  
its products will be marketed through the Group’s global sales and distributor network. SmallHD operates within the Broadcast Division.
Under the terms of the acquisition, there is a potential contingent consideration of up to US$25.4 million (£16.3 million) that is 
dependent on the performance against demanding EBITDA targets over the two and a half year period to 30 June 2017. Management’s 
assessment at the acquisition date is that £nil is payable for this period to 30 June 2017. This reflects that these targets are over and 
above those included in the Board approved acquisition projections. Any payment that would be made relating to this period shall be 
charged to the Income Statement as and when incurred.    
A summary of the effect of the acquisition SmallHD is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -   1.8   1.8 
Property, plant and equipment         0.3    0.3 
Inventories         1.3   -   1.3 
Trade and other receivables         0.2   -   0.2 
Trade and other payables         (0.8)   (0.8) 
           1.0   1.8   2.8 
Goodwill           0.1 
Consideration satisfied from existing cash resources          2.9 
The trade receivables acquired had a fair value and a gross contractual value of £0.1 million. No net deferred tax asset or liability has 
arisen on the net assets acquired. 104 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
 3.4 Acquisitions
The results of the acquisitions made during the period have been included in the Broadcast Division and comprise the following.
        SIS Autocue SmallHD 
         £m   £m   £m 
Revenue         0.5   0.7   0.2 
Operating profit
 (1)
         -   -   - 
Had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2014), they would have contributed £10.7 million (SIS: £0.6 
million, Autocue: £3.9 million, SmallHD: £6.2 million) to revenue and £0.7 million (SIS: £0.1 million, Autocue: £0.6 million, SmallHD: £nil) 
to the operating profit
 (1)
 of the Group. 
(1)
  Operating profit is stated before amortisation of intangible assets and after allocation of Head Office costs.
An analysis of the cash flows relating to acquisitions is provided below:  
           2014 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Cash consideration           13.2 
Transaction costs            0.9 
Cash acquired          (2.4) 
Net cash outflow in respect of 2014 acquisitions          11.7 
Cash paid in relation to Haigh-Farr, acquired in December 2011         0.7 
Cash paid in relation to Teradek, acquired in August 2013
 (2)
         1.8 
Cash paid in 2014 in respect of contingent consideration for prior year acquisitions        2.5 
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (3)
         14.2 
(2)
  During the year US$2.9 million (£1.8 million) was paid in cash and a further US$0.8 million (£0.5 million) was satisfied by the issue of 72,933 new Vitec Group ordinary 
shares in relation to Teradek.
(3)
  Of the £14.2 million net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions, transaction costs of £0.9 million are included in cash flows from operating activities and the net cash 
consideration paid of £13.3 million is included in cash flows from investing activities.    Annual Report & Accounts 2014 105
Acquisition of Teradek
On 28 August 2013, the Group acquired the partnership interests in T eradek, LLC (“T eradek”), a private company based in Irvine, California, US. 
The acquisition was funded in part by the issue of 214,847 new Vitec Group ordinary shares worth US$2.0 million (£1.3 million) to be held 
in escrow for two years post-completion, and net cash consideration of US$11.3 million (£7.3 million) after taking account of US$0.5 million 
(£0.3 million) of cash in the business at acquisition date. 
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Teradek is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -   6.1   6.1 
Property, plant and equipment         0.3   (0.3)   - 
Inventories         1.6   (0.3)   1.3 
Trade and other receivables         0.8   -   0.8 
Trade and other payables         (1.0)   -  (1.0) 
Provisions         -   (0.1)  (0.1) 
Cash         0.3   -   0.3 
           2.0   5.4   7.4 
Goodwill           4.5 
Consideration            11.9 
Satisfied by   
  - Issue of new ordinary shares            1.3 
  - Deferred and contingent consideration           3.0 
  - Cash consideration            7.6 
             11.9 
The trade receivables acquired had a fair value of £0.7 million and a gross contractual value of £0.8 million. No net deferred tax asset or 
liability had arisen on the net assets acquired.   
Of the US$4.7 million (£3.0 million) deferred and contingent consideration, US$3.7 million (£2.3 million) was paid in 2014. The remaining 
US$1.0 million (£0.6 million) is payable in 2015.   
Under the terms of the acquisition, there was a total potential contingent consideration of US$15.5 million that was dependent on the 
performance against demanding EBIT targets over the three year period to 31 December 2015. In 2014 the Group paid £2.0 million 
(US$3.2 million) in relation to Teradek’s performance in 2013, of which £1.5 million was paid in cash and the remaining £0.5 million was 
satisfied by the issue of 72,933 new Vitec Group ordinary shares. A further £4.2 million (US$7.0 million) has been charged to the Income 
Statement relating to T eradek’ s performance in 2014 and is subject to final agreement. This is payable in 2015. Up to a third of any deferred 
consideration paid to the vendors may be satisfied by issuing new Vitec Group ordinary shares with the remainder paid in cash. The 
recipients of these shares are required to hold them for a certain period under the terms of this acquisition.
An analysis of the cash flows relating to acquisitions is provided below:  
          2013 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Total purchase consideration           11.9 
Issue of new ordinary shares          (1.3) 
Deferred and contingent consideration          (3.0) 
Cash consideration           7.6 
Transaction costs            0.4 
Cash acquired          (0.3) 
Net cash outflow in respect of 2013 acquisition          7.7 
Contingent consideration in relation to Haigh-Farr, acquired in December 2011        1.2 
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (4)
          8.9 
(4)
  Of the £8.9 million net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions, transaction costs of £0.4 million were included in cash flows from operating activities and the net cash 
consideration paid of £8.5 million was included in cash flows from investing activities. 106 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities
3.5 Disposals
On 3 November 2014, the Group sold its IMT business which was based in the US and was included in the Broadcast Division.  
The disposal enables management to place greater focus on opportunities in its core activities in the Broadcast and Photographic Divisions.
A loss of £4.0 million arose on disposal after taking into account impairment and exit costs together with the net assets disposed  
(£9.5 million including £4.6 million of inventories) offset by cash consideration (£0.3 million) and the previously recorded foreign exchange 
gain that has been recycled to the Income Statement (£5.2 million). The total net cash outflow, after exit costs, is expected to be £3.8 million 
of which £1.3 million was paid in the period, and the remaining £2.5 million, of which £1.8 million ($2.9 million) relates to the onerous lease 
provision, is expected to be paid by the end of 2016.    
3.6 Provisions
A provision is recognised by the Group where an obligation exists, relating to events in the past, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it.  
Accounting policies
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate.       
Provisions for warranties, based on historical warranty data, are recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced.       
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it. 
         Onerous Deferred and 
         lease contingent 
      Total Warranty Restructuring and other consideration 
      £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014       7.9   1.3   2.7   0.3   3.6 
Charged to the Income Statement       10.2   0.5   2.7   2.8   4.2 
Provisions utilised during the year       (7.1)   (0.7)   (3.2)   (0.2)  (3.0) 
Provisions reversed during the year       (0.1)   (0.1)   -   -   - 
Currency translation adjustments       0.4   -   -   0.1   0.3 
At 31 December 2014       11.3   1.0   2.2   3.0   5.1 
Current       9.2   0.5   2.2   1.4   5.1 
Non-current       2.1   0.5   -   1.6   - 
         11.3   1.0   2.2   3.0   5.1  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 107
Warranty provisions      
Warranties over the Group’s products typically cover periods of between one and five years. The provision represents management’s 
best estimate of the Group’s liability based on past experience.      
Restructuring      
The restructuring provision is in relation to the Group streamlining certain operations by downsizing selected activities mainly in  
the US and Israel. These planned actions are intended to better position the Group for the future. The restructuring provision which 
principally relates to committed redundancy costs is expected to be utilised by the end of 2015.
Onerous lease contracts and other      
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Group entered into in  
previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated lives of the leases of up to two years, or earlier if exited.  
A charge of £1.8 million ($2.9 million) was made to the Income Statement in relation to the property lease of the disposed IMT  
business in the US (see note 3.5 “Disposals”)      
The other provision of £1.0 million is in relation to potential exit costs on the disposal of IMT business (see note 3.5 “Disposals”). 
Deferred and contingent consideration      
At 31 December 2013 a deferred and contingent total consideration of £3.6 million was provided in respect of prior years’ acquisitions  
of which the Group paid £3.0 million in the year. £2.5 million (Haigh-Farr: £0.7 million, Teradek: £1.8 million) of this was paid in cash  
and the remaining payment of £0.5 million to Teradek was satisfied by the issue of 72,933 new Vitec ordinary shares.
A charge of £4.2 million (US$7.0 million) to the Income Statement is in relation to the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 
payable to Teradek. This was as a result of Teradek’s performance for the year ending 31 December 2014 exceeding management’s 
assessment at acquisition date. Up to a further £2.6 million (US$4.0 million) is payable in 2016 conditional upon the achievement of 
performance targets for the year ending 31 December 2015. This will be charged to the Income Statement as and when incurred.  
Up to a third of any deferred consideration paid to the vendors may be satisfied by issuing new Vitec ordinary shares with the  
remainder paid in cash. The recipients of these shares are required to hold them for a certain period under the terms of this acquisition.  
See note 2.2 “Charges associated with acquired businesses”.      
The deferred and contingent consideration provision at 31 December 2014 of £5.1 million ($8.0 million) after currency translation 
adjustments is in respect of the prior period acquisition of Teradek.        108 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
This section outlines the Group’s capital structure. The Group defines its capital structure as its equity and non-current  
interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and aims to manage this to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so 
that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group manages the capital 
structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the 
underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, it may return capital to shareholders, through dividends 
and share buy backs, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group considers its dividend policy at least twice  
a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan.  
The Group focuses on leverage, credit ratings and interest cost, particularly when considering investment.  
On the following pages there are disclosures concerning the following:   
 4.1 Net debt    
 4.2 Financial instruments    
 4.3 Share capital and reserves   
4.1 Net debt
 The Group’s net debt comprises the following:    
 - Interest-bearing loans and borrowings    
 - Cash and cash equivalents (cash on hand and demand deposits at banks)    
 - Bank overdrafts that are payable on demand      
Accounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet represent cash on hand and demand deposits at banks. Demand deposits are 
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash without penalty and that are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.    
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, these transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the related borrowings.   
Analysis of net debt  
The table below analyses the Group’s components of net debt and their movements in the year.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents          (4.9)   3.9 
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings          (2.4)  (1.9) 
(Increase)/decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows          (7.3)   2.0 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held          (0.1)  (0.3) 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on debt held          (2.0)   0.5 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on net debt          (2.1)   0.2 
Movements in net debt in the year           (9.4)   2.2 
Net debt at 1 January           (61.5)  (63.7) 
Net debt at 31 December           (70.9)  (61.5) 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet          9.2   12.9 
Bank overdrafts           (1.3)   - 
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows         7.9   12.9 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings           (78.8)  (74.4) 
Net debt at 31 December           (70.9)  (61.5) Annual Report & Accounts 2014 109
4.2 Financial instruments
This provides details on:
 - Financial risk management 
 - Derivative financial instruments 
 - Fair value hierarchy 
 - Interest rate profile 
 - Maturity profile of financial liabilities  
Financial risk management  
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing 
expose it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its 
business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.   
  
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way 
the Group is managed. Financial risk management policies 
are set by the Board of Directors. These policies are 
implemented by a central treasury department that has 
formal procedures to manage foreign currency risk,  
interest rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where 
appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments.  
The Group has clearly defined authority and approval  
limits built into these procedures.   
Foreign currency risk   
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase 
transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective 
functional currencies of Group companies (transactional exposures) 
and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into 
the Group’s reporting currency of Sterling (translational exposures). 
The Group has businesses that operate around the world and 
accordingly record their results in a number of different functional 
currencies. Some of these operations also have some customers 
or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency. The Group’s results 
which are reported in Sterling are therefore exposed to changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates across a number of different 
currencies with the most significant exposures relating to the US 
Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR) and Japanese Yen (JPY). The Group  
proactively manages a proportion of its short-term transactional 
foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments, 
but remains exposed to the underlying translational movements 
which remain outside the control of the Group.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency 
risks through the use of forward exchange contracts including the 
US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Forward exchange contracts 
are typically used to hedge approximately 75% of the Group’s 
forecasted foreign currency exposure in respect of forecast cash 
transactions for the following 12 months. Forward exchange 
contracts may also be used to hedge a proportion of the forecast 
cash transactions for the following 13 to 24 months. The forward 
exchange contracts currently have maturities of less than one  
year at the Balance Sheet date.     
The Group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks 
relate to both the Income Statement and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries which are converted into Sterling on consolidation. 
The Group does not seek to hedge the translational exposure that 
arises primarily to changes in the exchange rates of the US Dollar, 
Euro and Japanese Yen against Sterling. However the Group does 
finance overseas investments partly through the use of foreign 
currency borrowings in order to provide a net investment hedge 
over the foreign currency risk that arises on translation of its  
foreign currency subsidiaries.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated 
cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling 
foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-
term imbalances. In addition the Group manages the denomination 
of surplus cash balances across the overseas subsidiaries to allow 
natural hedging where effective in any particular country.
It is estimated that the Group’s operating profit before restructuring 
costs and charges associated with acquired businesses for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 would have increased/decreased 
by approximately £1.7 million from a ten cent stronger/weaker US 
Dollar against Sterling, by approximately £1.3 million from a ten 
cent stronger/weaker Euro against Sterling and by approximately 
£0.3 million from a ten Yen stronger/weaker Japanese Yen 
against Sterling. This reflects the impact of the sensitivities to the 
translational exposures and to the proportion of the transactional 
exposures that is not hedged. The Group, in accordance with its 
policy, does not use derivatives to manage the translational risks. 
During 2014 the Group’s operating profit benefited from a net gain 
of £1.8 million (2013: £1.7 million loss) upon the crystallisation of 
forward exchange contracts as described later in this note.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises of both the interest rate price risk 
that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the 
interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, it is estimated that a 
general increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest 
rates, would decrease/increase the Group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £0.8 million.
Liquidity risk     
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due. 
The Group has a five year £100 million Multicurrency Revolving 
Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate comprising of five banks: 
three UK banks, one American bank, and one European bank, 
that expires in July 2017. The Group was utilising 46% of the £100 
million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility at 31 December 
2014. In 2011 the Group drew down US$50 million from a Private 
Placement shelf facility with repayment due in May 2017. 110 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Credit risk     
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to meet its 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial  
assets such as trade receivables, cash balances and derivative 
financial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to  
credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each  
financial asset, including derivative financial instruments,  
in the Group Balance Sheet.
a) Trade receivables 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. Trade receivables are subject to credit limits, and 
control and approval procedures in the operating companies.  
Due to its large geographic base and number of customers,  
the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit  
risk on its trade receivables.
b) Cash balances and derivative financial instruments 
Credit risk associated with cash balances is managed by 
transacting with a number of major financial institutions worldwide 
and periodically reviewing their credit worthiness. Transactions 
involving derivative financial instruments are managed centrally. 
These are only with banks that are part of the Group’s £100 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement. Accordingly, 
the Group’s associated credit risk is limited. The Group has no 
significant concentration of credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments 
This is a summary of the derivative financial instruments 
that the Group holds and uses to manage risk. The value of 
these derivatives changes over time in response to underlying 
variables such as exchange rates and are carried in the 
Balance Sheet at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined 
by estimating the market value of that contract at the 
reporting date. Derivatives with a positive fair value are 
recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities, 
and presented as current or non-current based on their 
contracted maturity dates.
Accounting policies 
Derivative financial instruments 
In accordance with Board approved policies, the Group uses 
derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange 
contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
rates arising from operational activities. These are designated 
as cash flow hedges. It does not hold or use derivative financial 
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Cash flow hedges are used to hedge the variability in cash flows 
of highly probable forecast transactions or a recognised asset or 
liability, caused by changes in exchange rates.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated in a cash  
flow hedge relationship with a highly probable forecast transaction, 
the effective part of any change in fair value arising is deferred in 
the Cash flow hedging reserve within Equity, via the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
part is recognised in the Income Statement within net finance 
expense. Amounts deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve are 
reflected in the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged 
item is recognised in the Income Statement. 
If a hedging instrument expires or is sold but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a derivative is used to hedge economically the foreign 
exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the Income Statement.
If a derivative financial instrument is not formally designated 
in a cash flow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is 
recognised in the Income Statement. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 111
Forward exchange contracts 
The following table shows the forward exchange contracts in place at the Balance Sheet date. These contracts mature in the next  
12 months, therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next 12 months.
       As at 31 Average As at 31 Average 
       December exchange December exchange 
        2014 rate of 2013 rate of 
      Currency millions contracts millions contracts
Cash flow hedging contracts     
USD / GBP forward exchange contracts      USD 14.8 1.62 13.5 1.56
USD / EUR forward exchange contracts      USD 36.0 1.33 56.2 1.32
EUR / GBP forward exchange contracts      EUR 17.4 1.21 17.2 1.20
JPY / GBP forward exchange contracts      JPY 459.0 163.6 506.9 143.7
JPY / EUR forward exchange contracts      JPY 629.0 136.7 618.0 121.5
A net gain of £1.8 million (2013: £1.7 million gain) relating to forward exchange contracts that crystallised during the year was charged to 
the Income Statement. 
Fair value hierarchy
The following summarises financial instruments carried at fair values and the major methods and assumptions used  
in estimating these fair values.
The different levels of fair value hierarchy have been defined as follows:     
Level 1 
Fair value measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   
Level 2 
Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).     
Level 3
Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
The table below shows the carrying values and fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
       Carrying  Carrying  
       value Fair value value Fair value 
       2014 2014 2013 2013 
       £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets        1.5   1.5   3.5   3.5 
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities        (2.5)   (2.5)   (0.1)  (0.1) 
Cash at bank and in hand        9.2   9.2   12.9   12.9 
Net trade receivables        37.2   37.2   35.8   35.8 
Trade payables        (26.5)   (26.5)   (25.1)  (25.1) 
Fixed rate borrowings        (33.0)   (34.1)   (30.2)  (31.7) 
Floating rate borrowings        (47.1)   (47.1)   (44.2)  (44.2) 
          (61.2)   (62.3)   (47.4)  (48.9) 
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where  
payments are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.     
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using appropriate yield curves,  
to the net present values.     
All financial instruments are deemed Level 2. 112 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital Structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Interest rate profile 
The table below analyses the Group’s interest rate exposure arising from bank loans by currency.
Accounting policies 
Net investment hedge accounting     
The Group uses US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s 
net investment in overseas companies.      
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, 
the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the translation reserve within Equity, via the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Income Statement.   
   
The effective portion will be recycled into the Income Statement on the sale of the foreign operation.    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     
The table below analyses the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, by currency.
         Fixed rate  Floating rate 
         Total borrowings borrowings 
Currency        £m £m £m
US Dollar         47.5   32.1   15.4 
Euro         25.7   0.9   24.8 
Sterling         5.3   -   5.3 
Japanese Yen         1.6   -   1.6 
At 31 December 2014         80.1   33.0   47.1 
US Dollar         44.1   30.2   13.9 
Euro         16.6   -   16.6 
Sterling         12.0   -   12.0 
Japanese Yen         1.7   -   1.7 
At 31 December 2013         74.4   30.2   44.2 
The floating rate borrowings comprise borrowings bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR. The fixed rate borrowings in US Dollar  
are due for repayment on 11 May 2017.     
      Annual Report & Accounts 2014 113
Maturity profile of financial liabilities     
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows (including interest), so will not always reconcile with the carrying amounts disclosed on the 
Balance Sheet.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including undiscounted future interest payments.
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
       amount cash flows one year years years 
2014      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured interest-bearing loans and borrowings      (80.1)   (86.4)   (3.6)   (82.8)   - 
Trade payables       (26.5)   (26.5)   (26.5)   -   - 
Forward exchange contracts       (2.5)   (2.5)   (2.5)   -   - 
         (109.1)   (115.4)   (32.6)   (82.8)   - 
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
      amount cash flows one year years years 
2013      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured interest-bearing loans and borrowings      (74.4)   (82.8)   (2.2)   (80.6)   - 
Trade payables       (25.1)   (25.1)   (25.1)   -   - 
Forward exchange contracts       (0.1)   (0.1)   (0.1)   -   - 
         (99.6)   (108.0)   (27.4)   (80.6)   - 
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:
         2014 2013 
Expiring in:         £m £m
Less than one year     
  - Uncommitted facilities            9.3   10.8 
More than one year but not more than five years     
  - Committed facilities            54.2   55.8 
Total           63.5   66.6  114 The Vitec Group plc
4.3 Share capital and reserves
This note explains the movements in share capital, and the nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity. 
The movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.    
The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its employee remuneration packages. Options that have been granted 
and remain outstanding at 31 December 2014 are set out below. The various share-based payment schemes are explained 
in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
Share capital
         Number of Nominal 
         shares value 
         (thousands) £m
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2014          44,061   8.8 
Consideration for acquisition          73   - 
Exercise of share options          188   0.1 
At 31 December 2014           44,322   8.9 
Each ordinary share carries one vote, participates equally with the other ordinary shares in distribution of dividends and capital (including 
on a winding up) and is not redeemable.   
At 31 December 2014 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes:
        Number of  Dates 
        shares Exercise normally 
        (thousands) prices  exercisable
UK Sharesave Schemes          327   131p-543p   2015-2019 
International Sharesave Schemes          410   131p-543p   2015-2018 
           737   
Other Reserves   
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity are as follows:   
Translation reserve   
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.   
Cash flow hedging reserve   
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective 
cash flow hedge relationships.   
Own shares held   
Own shares held by the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. As at 31 December 
2014 the Company Employee Benefit Trust held 44,330 ordinary shares.   
Dividends    
After the Balance Sheet date the following final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 was recommended by the Directors and 
subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 12 May 2015 will be paid on 15 May 2015. The dividend has not been provided for 
at the year end and there are no tax consequences.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
14.7p per ordinary share (2013: 14.1p per ordinary share)        6.5   6.2 
Section 4 – Capital Structure Annual Report & Accounts 2014 115
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
This section explains items that are not explained elsewhere in the financial statements.  
5.1 Employees
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Employee costs, including Directors’ remuneration, comprise:   
Wages and salaries          74.3   73.9 
Employers’ social security costs          10.5   11.5 
Employers’ pension costs - defined benefit schemes         1.0   1.1 
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes        1.4   1.5 
Other employment benefits          3.0   3.1 
Share-based payment charge          0.5   1.4 
            90.7   92.5 
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report. Employee costs exclude employment 
termination costs.
         2014 2013 
         Total Total
Average number of employees during the year   
Videocom          915   921 
Services          195   175 
Total Broadcast          1,110   1,096 
Photographic          744   781 
Head Office          22   21 
            1,876   1,898  116 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.2 Pensions
This note explains the accounting policies governing the Group’s treatment of the pension schemes, followed by an 
analysis of these schemes.
Accounting policies        
Defined contribution schemes        
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The costs of providing pensions for 
employees under defined contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit schemes 
The Group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by 
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined by reference to 
market yields at the Balance Sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.         
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in  
full in the period in which they arise in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.       
 
The Group recognises the ongoing service cost, past-service costs and any cost or income relating to the curtailment or settlement of 
a pension scheme in operating expenses in the Income Statement. The unwinding of the discount (above) is recognised as part of net 
financial expense.
Pension schemes        
The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Italy, Germany, Japan, Israel and France. The UK defined benefit scheme 
was closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Group are now offered membership of the 
defined contribution pension scheme. Other overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution schemes. 
Defined contribution schemes        
The total Income Statement charge of the defined contribution schemes for the year ended 31 December 2014 was £1.4 million (2013: 
£1.5 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2014 (or at 31 December 2013).
Defined benefit schemes        
The Group’s defined benefit schemes are disclosed below.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised on the Group Balance Sheet 
Plan assets        
  - Equities           18.7   24.0 
  - Bonds           27.7   23.2 
  - Other           10.1   3.0 
Total fair value of plan assets          56.5   50.2 
Present value of defined benefit obligation          (64.2)  (59.3) 
Net deficit recognised in the Group Balance Sheet         (7.7)  (9.1)  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 117
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Analysis of net recognised deficit 
Total funded plan (UK Pension scheme)          (3.8)  (5.1) 
Total unfunded plans (non-UK Pension schemes)         (3.9)  (4.0) 
Liability recognised on the Group Balance Sheet         (7.7)  (9.1) 
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
  - Administration costs incurred during the period          1.1   1.2 
  - Past service gain           (0.1)  (0.1) 
Included in operating expenses          1.0   1.1 
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities        0.3   0.3 
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         1.3   1.4 
UK pension scheme        
The UK pension scheme, being significant, is disclosed below.        
The nature of the UK scheme is a funded final salary scheme closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. As a result, 
since that date, no contributions are payable in respect of future accrual of benefits. As the 5 April 2013 funding valuation of the scheme 
disclosed a funding surplus, no recovery plan is required under the Pensions Act 2004. As such, member and employer contributions 
to the scheme over the year to 31 December 2015 are expected to be £nil. The scheme is subject to all legislation and regulations that 
apply to UK occupational pension schemes.        
The main risk to which the Group is exposed to by the scheme is that the cost of the benefits provided by the scheme is greater than 
expected, for example due to lower than expected investments returns or members of the scheme living longer than expected, which 
may result in additional contributions being required from the Group.
            
         2014 2013
Impact on defined benefit obligation (DBO) of changes in the three key individual assumptions
Discount rate increased by 0.1% points         -2% -2%
Inflation increased by 0.1% points         +1% +2%
Life expectancy reduced by one year         -3% -2%
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation 
of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown. 
         2014 2013 
         % pa   % pa 
Assumptions used by the actuary to value the liability of the defined benefit plan, on 31 December were:    
Price inflation (RPI)          3.0   3.3 
Price inflation (CPI)          2.0   2.3 
Life expectancy of male / female aged 65 in 2014         22.7 / 25.0   22.6 / 24.9 
Life expectancy of male / female aged 50 in 2014         23.7 / 26.1   23.6 / 26.1 
Pension increase rate (% pa)        
  - Discretionary (pre - 6 April 1997 accrual in excess of GMP)        2.9   3.2 
  - Guaranteed LPI 5% (6 April 1997 - 30 June 2008)         2.9   3.2 
  - Guaranteed LPI 5%, with 3% floor          3.2   3.4 
  - Guaranteed LPI 2.5% (accrual from 1 July 2008)         2.0   2.4 
Discount rate          3.6   4.5  118 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
 5.2 Pensions
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Change in DBO for the year to 31 December        
Present value of DBO at start of year          55.3   53.8 
Interest cost          2.4   2.3 
Actuarial gain on experience          (2.1)  (1.9) 
Actuarial loss on demographic assumptions          -   0.7 
Actuarial loss on financial assumptions          7.0   1.9 
Actual benefit payments          (2.2)  (1.4) 
Past service gains          (0.1)  (0.1) 
Present value of DBO at end of year          60.3   55.3 
At 31 December 2014, the weighted-average duration of the scheme’s DBO was 18 years (2013: 19 years). The proportion of DBO in 
respect of pensions in payment is 50% and that in respect of deferred pensioners is 50%. 
       Fair   Fair 
       value Quoted Unquoted value 
       2014 split  split 2013 
       £m % % £m
Scheme assets and proportion which have quoted market price, at 31 December
Bonds        27.7  100  -   23.2 
Equities        18.7  73 27  24.0 
Diversified growth (bonds and equities)        8.7  100  -   - 
Cash/non-cash assets        1.0   -  100  0.5 
Insurance policies        0.4   -  100  0.3
Property        -   -   -   2.2 
Total value of assets        56.5     50.2 
Note: The asset values shown are, where relevant, estimated bid values of market securities.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Change in fair value of assets for the year to 31 December         
Fair value of assets at start of year          50.2   49.0 
Interest income on scheme assets          2.2   2.1 
Return on scheme assets greater than discount rate         6.5   0.7 
Actual benefit payments          (2.2)  (1.4) 
Administration expenses paid          (0.2)  (0.2) 
Fair value of assets at end of year          56.5   50.2  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 119
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Development of net balance sheet position at 31 December        
Present value of defined benefit obligation          (60.3)  (55.3) 
Assets at fair value           56.5   50.2 
Net defined benefit scheme liability          (3.8)  (5.1) 
        
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of net balance sheet position        
Net defined benefit scheme liability at start of year          (5.1)  (4.8) 
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         (0.3)  (0.3) 
Remeasurement effects recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)       1.6   - 
Defined benefit scheme liability at end of year         (3.8)  (5.1) 
        
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement        
  - Administration costs incurred during the period          0.2   0.2 
  - Past service gains           (0.1)  (0.1) 
Included in operating expenses          0.1   0.1 
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liability        0.2   0.2 
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         0.3   0.3 
        
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in OCI      
Actuarial gain due to liability experience          (2.1)  (1.9) 
Actuarial loss due to liability assumption changes         7.0   2.6 
Actuarial loss arising during the period          4.9   0.7 
Return on scheme assets less than discount rate         (6.5)  (0.7) 
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI         (1.6)   - 
        
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Defined benefit pension scheme cost        
Administration costs incurred during the period          0.2   0.2 
Past service gains           (0.1)  (0.1) 
Net interest expense on net defined benefit pension scheme liability         0.2   0.2 
Remeasurement effects recognised in OCI           (1.6)   - 
Total defined benefit pension scheme cost         (1.3)   0.3  120 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.3 Share-based payments
Group employees participate in a number of employee incentive schemes including a Sharesave Scheme, a Long Term 
Incentive Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan.      
This note explains the accounting policy governing share-based payments and the impact of various share schemes 
operated by the Group.
Accounting policies        
Share-based payments        
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. The fair value of the equity-settled employee share option grants is 
calculated at grant date and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes, with a corresponding adjustment 
to equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options that will vest, except where forfeiture arises 
from share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.     
The fair values of options are calculated using Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo simulation models. Vesting conditions are limited to  
non-market based conditions such as service conditions and performance conditions (adjusted earnings per share targets).
Any potential employer’s Social Security liability on options granted is calculated based on the intrinsic value of the options and charged 
to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes.     
Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisfied by market purchase or issue of new shares. Shares purchased in the 
market are held in the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust.     
A description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that existed at any time during the period, including the general 
terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options granted, and the method of 
settlement (for example whether in cash or equity) is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payments expense        
The amount recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with employees for the year ended 31 December 
2014 was £0.4 million (2013: £1.3 million), of which £0.1 million credit (2013: £0.1 million credit) related to employers’ tax liability.  
   
The outstanding employers’ tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for UK awards was £nil (2013: £0.2 million).
Share options outstanding at the end of the period        
Options outstanding under the 2002 UK Sharesave Scheme, 2002 International Sharesave Plan, 2011 UK Sharesave Scheme and  
2011 International Sharesave Plan as at 31 December 2014, together with their exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
          Weighted 
         Weighted average 
        Number average remaining 
        outstanding exercise contractual 
         (thousands) price (£) life (years) 
Range of Exercise Prices 
£1.30 - £1.40          5   1.31   2 
£3.01 - £4.00          7   3.53   1 
£4.51 - £5.00          238   4.84   4 
£5.01 - £5.50          487   5.22   2 
Total          737   5.05   3  Annual Report & Accounts 2014 121
Movements in these share option plans were as follows:
          Weighted 
           average 
         Sharesave  Exercise 
         (thousands) Price (£)
Awards at 31 December 2012          889   4.14 
Exercised during 2013          (195)   3.49 
Lapsed during 2013          (133)   5.05 
Granted during 2013          198   5.06 
Awards at 31 December 2013          759   4.14 
Exercised during 2014          (372)   3.59 
Lapsed during 2014          (83)   5.29 
Granted during 2014          433   4.98 
Awards at 31 December 2014          737   5.05 
Awards exercisable at 31 December 2014         -   4.72 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £5.91 (2013: £6.00).
  2011 2011 UK and 2011 UK and 2005 2005 
  International International International Long Term Deferred 
  Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Incentive Bonus 
Arrangement  Plan 2 Year Scheme 3 Year Scheme 5 Year Plan Plan
Nature of arrangement  “Save as you  “Save as you “Save as you  Share award  Share award 
    earn scheme”   earn scheme” earn scheme”   plan  plan 
Date of grant 25 Sep 2014 25 Sep 2014 25 Sep 2014 2 April 2014 31 March 2014
Number of instruments  
granted (thousands)  202   193   39   588   75 
Exercise Price £5.15 £4.84 £4.84  n/a   n/a 
Share price at date of grant £6.03 £6.03 £6.03 £6.16 £5.97
Contractual Life (years)  2.3   3.6   5.6   n/a   n/a 
Expected Option Life (years)  2.3   3.3   5.3   n/a   n/a 
         Relative TSR 
        Relative TSR performance against 
       performance against comparator group, 
    2 year service 3 year service 5 year service comparator group,  and adjusted 
    period and savings period and savings period and savings and adjusted EPS growth for 
Vesting conditions requirement requirement requirement EPS growth matching awards
Settlement   Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares 
Expected Volatility
 (1)
  23.0%  23.0%  23.0%  23.5%  23.5%
Risk free interest rate  1.13%  1.45%  1.81%  n/a  n/a
Expected Dividend Yield  4.00%  4.00%  4.00%  n/a  n/a
Expected departures  
(per annum from grant date)  5%  5%  5%  10%  5%
Expected outcome of  
non-market based related  
performance condition   n/a    n/a    n/a   0%  0%
Fair value per granted  
instrument determined  
at the grant date  £0.99  £1.19  £1.22 £6.16/£2.74
 (2)
 £5.97/£2.73
 (2)
Valuation Model Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo
 (3)
 Monte Carlo
 (3)
(1)
  The expected volatility is based on historical volatility determined by the analysis of daily share prices over a period commensurate with the expected lifetime of 
the award and ending on the date of grant of the award. Due to significant fluctuations in Vitec’s share price during the year a uniform rate has been used for all 
the Sharesave options as a reasonable estimate of volatility going-forward.
(2)
  The first figure represents fair value of awards subject to adjusted EPS growth criteria and the second figure represents fair value of awards subject to TSR criteria.
(3)
  For the 2005 LTIP and 2005 DBP Matching awards, a Monte-Carlo simulation has been used. Under this valuation method, the share price for Vitec is projected 
at the end of the performance period as the TSR for Vitec and the companies in the comparator group. Based on these projections, the number of awards that 
will vest is determined. Thousands of simulations are run and the fair value of the award is calculated as the product of the vesting probability and the share price 
at the date of grant. 122 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other Supporting Notes
5.5 Related party transactions
A related party relationship is based on the ability of one party to control or significantly influence the other.
The Group has identified the Directors, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of the Operations Executive as 
related parties to the Company under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Transactions with key management personnel    
Details of Directors’ remuneration along with their pension, share incentive, bonus arrangements and holdings of the Company’s shares 
are shown in detail in the Remuneration Report.   
The compensation of the seven (2013: seven) members of the Operations Executive during the year, including the Executive Directors  
is shown in the table below.
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Salaries          1.7   1.7 
Performance-related bonuses          0.8   1.5 
Share-based payment charge
 (1)
          0.1   0.6 
Other short-term employee benefits           0.2   0.2 
Post employment benefits          0.2   0.2 
(1)
  IFRS 2 charge recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with members of the Operations Executive.
5.4 Leases
Operating leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices, warehouses and factory 
facilities. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
Accounting policies        
Leases        
Operating leases are those which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the rentals of which 
are charges to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
     Land and  Total Land and  Total 
     buildings Other  2014 buildings Other 2013 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
Expiring within one year      1.1   0.1   1.2   0.4   0.1   0.5 
Expiring two to five years      8.2   1.1   9.3   8.5   1.0   9.5 
Expiring after five years      2.6   -   2.6   9.0   -   9.0 
        11.9   1.2   13.1   17.9   1.1   19.0 
During the year £4.9 million (2013: £5.0 million) was recognised in the Income Statement in respect of operating lease payments. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 123
5.6 Principal Group investments
The Group’s principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014 are listed below. All subsidiaries are 100% owned within the Group.
        Country of incorporation
Vitec Group US Holdings, Inc           US 
Vitec Group Holdings Limited            UK 
Vitec Investments Limited           UK 
Broadcast  
Autocue Group Limited           UK 
Vitec Videocom Limited           UK 
Vitec Videocom, Inc           US 
Vitec Videocom Limitada           Costa Rica 
Haigh-Farr, Inc           US 
Camera Corps Ltd           UK 
Teradek, LLC           US 
Vitec Broadcast Services Inc           US 
Photographic  
Manfrotto Distribution, Inc           US 
Manfrotto Distribution KK           Japan 
Vitecgroup Italia Spa           Italy 
Manfrotto UK Limited           UK 
Manfrotto Bags Ltd           Israel 
Exemption has been taken under section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 to list all the subsidiary undertakings of the Group.  
A full list of related subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
5.7 Subsequent events
There were no events after the Balance Sheet date that require disclosure. 124 The Vitec Group plc
         2014 2013 
        Notes £m £m
Fixed assets    
Tangible fixed assets         f)   1.3   1.4 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings         g)   419.3   398.3 
            420.6   399.7 
Current assets   
Debtors         h)   4.7   6.9 
Cash at bank and in hand          1.1   13.9 
            5.8   20.8 
Liabilities falling due within one year   
Creditors         i)   (8.4)  (11.4) 
Provisions         j)   (0.1)  (0.2) 
            (8.5)  (11.6) 
Net current assets/(liabilities)          (2.7)   9.2 
Total assets less current liabilities          417.9   408.9 
Liabilities falling due after one year   
Creditors         i)   (112.9)  (105.1) 
Provisions         j)   -  (0.1) 
            (112.9)  (105.2) 
Net assets          305.0   303.7 
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital         k)   8.9   8.8 
Share premium account         l)   13.4   12.1 
Revaluation reserve         l)   0.9   0.9 
Merger and other reserves         l)   55.3   55.3 
Profit and loss account         l)   226.5   226.6 
Equity shareholders’ funds          305.0   303.7 
 Approved by the Board on 24 February 2015 and signed on its behalf:    
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
The Vitec Group plc 
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
Company Balance Sheet  
 As at 31 December 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 125
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 
 For the year ended 31 December 2014
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Profit for the financial year           11.2   19.2 
Dividends paid           (10.3)  (9.8) 
Retained profit for the year           0.9   9.4 
Own shares purchased           (1.5)  (1.5) 
Share based payment charge, net of tax           0.5   2.9 
New shares issued           1.4   1.7 
Net increase in shareholders’ funds           1.3   12.5 
Opening shareholders’ funds           303.7   291.2 
Closing shareholders’ funds           305.0   303.7  126 The Vitec Group plc
a) Basis of preparation
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). 
Under section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under FRS 1 (revised) the Company is exempt from the requirement to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows 
are included in the Group consolidated financial statements. 
Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds that  
it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to  
that standard. 
Under FRS 8 the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries  
which form part of the Group.
b) Accounting policies  
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
financial statements:
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on that day. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the year end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and  
the year end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such differences are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Fixed assets and depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost or valuation of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other fixed assets are depreciated as follows: 
Freehold buildings    up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements    over the remaining period of the lease
Motor vehicles    3 to 4 years
Equipment, fixtures and fittings    3 to 10 years
Fixed assets are stated at cost except that, as allowed under FRS 15 “Tangible Fixed Assets”, on adoption of that standard in the year 
ending 31 December 2000 when the book amounts of revalued land and buildings were retained. These book values are based on  
the previous revaluation on 31 March 1989 and have not been subsequently revalued. 
Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. A list of principal subsidiaries directly 
owned by the Company is contained within note 5.6 “Principal Group investments” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Leases 
Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis. 
Pensions 
The Company participates in the Group’s defined benefit scheme operated in the UK, which was closed to future benefit accrual  
with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Company are now offered membership of the defined contribution scheme.  
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the  
group defined benefit scheme’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as a defined contribution scheme.  
The amounts charged against profits represent contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period. 
Further details of the UK pension scheme are disclosed in note 5.2 “Pensions” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. Further details are disclosed in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”  
of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment. 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2014 127
c) Employees          
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Employee costs comprise: 
Wages and salaries           3.2   3.3 
Employers’ social security costs          0.4   0.4 
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes        0.1   0.1 
Share-based payment charge
 (1)
          0.5   1.4 
            4.2   5.2 
(1) 
Share-based payment charge represents the Group total.    
         2014 2013
Average number of employees during the year          22   21 
Further details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
d) Audit fees    
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was £0.1 million.    
Further details of the Group audit fee are disclosed in note 2.1 “Profit before tax” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
e) Dividends  
         2014 2013 
          £m   £m 
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 
Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year      6.2   5.9 
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year         4.1   3.9 
            10.3   9.8 
A final dividend of 14.7p per share has been recommended by the Board. 128 The Vitec Group plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
f) Tangible fixed assets            
        Freehold  Equipment, 
        land and Leasehold fixtures and 
       Total buildings buildings fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation    
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2013        3.2   2.6   0.5   0.1 
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2014         1.8   1.5   0.2   0.1 
Charge for the year         0.1   -   0.1   - 
At 31 December 2014         1.9   1.5   0.3   0.1 
Net book value     
At 1 January 2014         1.4   1.1   0.3   - 
At 31 December 2014         1.3   1.1   0.2   - 
Freehold land and buildings disclosed at a revalued net book value of £1.2 million would have been stated under historical cost at  
£0.7 million and a net book value of £nil.     
The revalued amount of the land and buildings has been retained as allowed for by the transitional provisions set out in FRS 15  
“Tangible Fixed Assets”.
The Company had the following commitments during the following year, under non-cancellable operating leases:
         Land and buildings
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
 Expiring within one year           0.2   - 
 Expiring in two to five years           0.1   0.3 
            0.3   0.3 
g) Investments in subsidiary undertakings   
         Investment  
         in other  
        Total shares Loans 
        £m £m £m
Cost  
At 1 January 2014          398.9   336.1   62.8 
Additions          21.0   8.9   12.1 
At 31 December 2014          419.9   345.0   74.9 
Provisions     
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014         0.6   0.6   - 
Net book value     
At 1 January 2014          398.3   335.5   62.8 
At 31 December 2014          419.3   344.4   74.9 
The additions in investments during the year reflect the Company’s restructuring of certain subsidiary holding and financing companies. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 129
h) Debtors           
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings           1.8   0.2 
Corporation tax           0.5   1.2 
Other debtors           0.8   1.6 
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts         1.0   3.4 
Deferred tax assets           0.3   0.3 
Prepayments and accrued income           0.3   0.2 
            4.7   6.9 
i) Creditors           
         2014 2013 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings           5.1   5.1 
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts         1.0   3.4 
Other creditors           0.2   0.1 
Accruals and deferred income           2.1   2.8 
            8.4   11.4 
Amount falling due after more than one year     
Bank loans (unsecured)           77.9   74.4 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertaking           35.0   30.7 
            112.9   105.1 
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil).
j) Provisions            
          Onerous 
          lease 
          £m
At 1 January 2014           0.3 
Provisions utilised during the year          (0.2) 
At 31 December 2014           0.1 
Due within one year           0.1 
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Company entered into in 
previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the lease or earlier if exited. 130 The Vitec Group plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
k) Called up share capital      
         Number of  
         shares Nominal 
         (thousands)  value £m
Issued and fully paid     
At 1 January 2014           44,061   8.8 
Consideration for acquisitions           73   - 
Exercise of share options           188   0.1 
At 31 December 2014           44,322   8.9 
Details of share based payments and share options are stated in note 5.3 “Share-based payments” of the Group’s consolidated  
financial statements.
l) Reserves      
       Share  Merger Profit 
       premium Revaluation  and other and loss 
       account reserve  reserves account 
       £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014         12.1   0.9   55.3   226.6 
Dividends paid         -   -   -  (10.3) 
Own shares (Employee Benefit Trust) purchased        -   -   -  (1.5) 
Share based payment charge, net of tax         -   -   -   0.5 
New shares issued         1.3   -   -   - 
Profit for the year         -   -   -   11.2 
At 31 December 2014         13.4   0.9   55.3   226.5 
Other reserves represents the capitalisation of the share premium account, £22.7 million in 1989 and £37.3 million in 1995 less  
£16.0 million of share repurchases in 1995.
m) Related party transactions 
The Company has identified a related party relationship with its Board, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of  
the Operations Executive as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and note 5.5 “Related party transactions” of the Group’s  
consolidated financial statements. There are no other related party transactions to disclose.
n) Post Balance Sheet events 
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board on 24 February 2015. There were no events after the balance  
sheet date that require disclosure. Annual Report & Accounts 2014 131
      2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue        309.6   315.4   345.3   351.0   309.6 
Operating profit
 (1)
       38.8   39.5   39.3   34.5   27.7 
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings      (3.6)   (3.6)   (3.2)   (1.9)  (1.2) 
Other finance income/(expense)       0.1   (0.3)   0.1   0.4   0.2 
Profit before tax
 (2)
       35.3   35.6   36.2   33.0   26.7 
Cash generated from operating activities        42.0   52.4   38.4   39.1   34.6 
Interest paid        (3.3)   (3.6)   (3.1)   (1.8)  (1.2) 
Tax paid        (3.5)   (8.5)   (10.8)   (11.1)  (0.9) 
Net cash from operating activities        35.2   40.3   24.5   26.2   32.5 
Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, software and development costs   (17.0)   (18.9)   (13.7)   (9.7)  (14.5) 
Free cash flow       18.2   21.4   10.8   16.5   18.0 
Capital employed      
Intangible assets        87.1   76.3   68.2   75.0   51.8 
Property, plant and equipment        54.8   53.5   48.6   50.1   53.4 
Other net assets        35.2   39.2   48.3   39.5   27.0 
         177.1   169.0   165.1   164.6   132.2 
Financed by      
Shareholders’ funds - equity        118.6   120.2   114.6   129.3   124.3 
Net debt        70.9   61.5   63.7   50.4   28.1 
Deferred tax        (12.4)   (12.7)   (13.2)   (15.1)  (20.2) 
         177.1   169.0   165.1   164.6   132.2 
Statistics      
Operating profit (%)
 (1)
       12.5   12.5   11.4   9.8   8.9 
Effective tax rate (%)
 (2)
       30.0   30.9   32.9   32.7   33.0 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (p)
 (3)
       55.9   56.1   55.8   51.4   41.9 
Basic earnings per share (p)        29.4   31.9   13.6   34.7   42.8 
Dividends per share (p)        24.0   23.0   22.0   20.5   19.0 
Year end mid-market share price (p)        594.0   639.0   635.3   555.7   585.0 
(1)
  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses in 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011; and before significant items in 2010. 
(2)
  Before restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business in 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011; and before significant  
items in 2010.
(3)
  Differences between adjusted basic and basic earnings per share arise from restructuring costs, charges associated with acquired businesses,  
disposal of business and related tax in the years in question.
Five Year Financial Summary 
 Years ended 31 December 132 The Vitec Group plc
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar
Shareholder information
The Investors section of the Company’s website,   
www.vitecgroup.com, contains detailed information on news, key 
financial information, annual reports, financial calendar, share price 
information, dividends and key contact details. The following is 
a summary and readers are encouraged to view the website for 
more detailed information.
Shareholder enquiries
For all enquiries about your shareholding please contact the 
Company’s registrar:
*  Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras. Lines are open from 9.00am  
to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
** Calls will be charged at standard overseas rates.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables 
shareholders to reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in 
the Company. Application forms can be obtained from Capita.  
You must arrange for your Dividend Reinvestment Plan application 
form to be received by Capita no later than Monday, 20 April  
2015 to join the plan for the final dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
International dividend payment service
Overseas shareholders can receive their dividends in a local 
currency instead of in Sterling and can find out more about this 
by calling the international phone number above or by visiting 
http://international.capitaregistrars.com. Any election to receive 
dividends in local currency in respect of the final dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 payable on Friday, 15 May 2015 
must be received by Capita no later than the record date for the 
final dividend, Friday, 17 April 2015.
Share price information
The closing middle market price of a share of The Vitec Group plc 
on 31 December 2014 was £5.94. During the year, the share price 
fluctuated between £5.40 and £6.89. The Company’s share price 
is available from the Group’s website, www.vitecgroup.com, with 
a 15-minute delay, and from the Financial Times website, www.
ft.com, with a similar delay. 
Share scams
Shareholders should be aware that fraudsters may try and 
use high pressure tactics to lure investors into share scams. 
Information on share scams can be found on the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s website, www.fca.org.uk/scams, or via their 
consumer helpline: 0800 111 6768.
Financial calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2014
Capita Asset Services (“Capita”)
Website www.capitashareportal.com
Email shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Address The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU
Phone from UK 0871 664 0300* 
Phone from overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3399**
  Number %  Number % 
Shares held of holders of holders of shares of shares
Up to 1,000 509 52.1 194,596 0.4
1,001 to 5,000 278 28.4 660,592 1.5
5,001 to 10,000 57 5.8 424,065 1.0
10,001 to 50,000 72 7.4 1,759,126 4.0
50,001 to 100,000 17 1.7 1,306,793 2.9
100,001 and over 45 4.6 39,976,602 90.2
 978 100 44,321,774 100
Institutions 
and companies 323 33.0 41,997,819 94.8
Individuals including  
Directors and their 
families 655 67.0 2,323,955 5.2
 978 100 44,321,774 100
Ex-dividend date for 2014 final dividend Thursday, 16 April 2015
Record date for 2014 final dividend Friday, 17 April 2015
Annual General Meeting Tuesday, 12 May 2015 (10.00 a.m.)
2014 final dividend payment date Friday, 15 May 2015
Announcement of 2015 half year results Thursday, 6 August 2015
Proposed 2015 interim dividend payment date October 2015
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/Investors/Shareholderservices Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Inside this report
Corporate 
Governance
38 Board of Directors 
40  Chairman’s Report
52  Audit Committee Report
Remuneration  
Report
56  Remuneration Committee Chairman    
 Statement
58  Summary of Remuneration Policy Report
63  Annual Report on Remuneration 
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
76 Independent Auditor’s Report 
Directors’ Report
74 Directors’ Report 
Corporate 
Responsibility
28  Continuing Progress with Corporate    
 Responsibility
29 Business Ethics 
30  Environment 
32 Employees 
36 Community & Charitable Donations 
Financial Statements
79  Table of Contents
80  Primary Statements 
85  Section 1 - Basis of Preparation 
87 Section 2 - Results for the Year 
95 Section 3 - Operating Assets and Liabilities 
108  Section 4 - Capital Structure
115  Section 5 - Other Supporting Notes 
124 Company Financial Statements 
131 Five Year Financial Summary 
132  Shareholder Information and  
 Financial Calendar 
Strategic Report
01  Highlights 
02  Chairman’s Statement 
04  Vitec Group Overview
06  What We Do
08  Group Chief Executive’s Review 
10  Our Business Model 
12  Progress On Our Strategic Priorities
13  Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Update: Broadcast 
16 Market Update: Photographic 
18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
20  Financial Review
24  Broadcast Division 
26  Photographic Division 
Where 
the story 
comes to 
life
The Vitec Group plc
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Strategic Report through to the end of 
the Directors’ Report (pages 1 to 75) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the Group operates. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may 
be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
The Vitec Group plc website
www.vitecgroup.com
Annual Report & Accounts online
www.vitecgroup.com/annual_report_2014 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
The Vitec Group plc 
Annual Report
& Accounts
2014
