 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England no. 227691 Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by Royles Print Ltd
Vitec is an international Group 
principally serving customers  
in the broadcast, photographic 
and military, aerospace and 
government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well 
known premium brands on 
which its customers worldwide 
rely. Vitec is organised in three 
divisions: Videocom, Imaging  
& Staging and Services.
Videocom designs and 
distributes systems and 
products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, film and 
video production and MAG.
Imaging & Staging designs, 
manufactures and distributes 
equipment and accessories  
for photography, video  
and events. 
Services provides equipment 
rental, workflow design and 
technical support for camera, 
video, audio, fibre optic and 
wireless technology used by 
TV production teams and  
film crews. 
 
More information can be  
found at our website:  
www.vitecgroup.com
The Vitec Group plc
Directors’ Report
Highlights 01 
The Group at a glance 02 
Chairman’s Statement 04 
Group Chief Executive’s Review 06 
Financial Review 14 
Videocom Division 20
Imaging & Staging Division 22 
Services Division 24 
The Vitec Group Operations Executive 25
 Board of Directors 26 
 
Remuneration Report  31 
Corporate Responsibility Report 42
Corporate Governance  50 
Independent Auditors’ Report 58 
 
Consolidated financial statements 2011
Introduction and table of contents 59 
Consolidated Income Statement 60
 Consolidated Statement  61  
of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 62
 Consolidated Statement  63  
of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  64  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  65 
 
Company financial statements 2011
Company Balance Sheet 103 
 Reconciliation of Movements 104  
in Shareholders’ Funds 
Notes to the Company financial statements 105  
 
Five Year Financial Summary 110  
 Shareholder Information and 111 
Financial Calendar
Financial 15
Total Shareholder Return 38
Environmental impact 45
Health & Safety 46
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Board and Operations Executive monitor 
a number of financial and non-financial KPIs to 
measure our performance over time. Details of  
our KPIs can be found on the following pages: Key points
•	 Revenue	gr owth	of	13.4%	and	a	24.5%	incr ease		
in	operating	pr ofit*
•	 Gr owth	in	Br oadcast	and	V ideo	markets
•	 Manfr otto	Powerbrand	pr oducts	selling	ahead	of		
our	expectations
•	 Acquisition	and	successful	integration	of	the	Lastolite		
lighting	accessories	business
•	 Completion	of	Haigh-Farr	acquisition	to	complement		
our	MAG	activities
•	 Pr ofit	befor e	tax*	r ose	by	23.6%	to	£33.0	million
•	 Recommended	9.6%	incr ease	in	final	dividend	to		
12.5	pence	per	shar e	gives	rise	to	a	full	year	dividend		
of	20.5	pence	per	shar e
Highlights
Revenue
£351.0m
Operating profit*
£34.5m
Adjusted basic earnings  
per share*
51.4p
Net debt
£50.4m
Revenue  
£m
 273.8
            337.7
         315.1
      309.6 
               351.0
Operating profit
*
  
£m
             32.6
                      38.4
 24.5
       27.7 
                34.5
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share*
pence
          46.0
                    55.9
36.5
     41.9 
               51.4
Net debt 
£m
           38.4
                           53.0
             40.6
28.1 
                        50.4
* 		 Befor e 	 Significant 	 items. 	 Significant 	 items 	 ar e 	 those 	 items 	 of 	 financial 	 performance 	 that 	 the 	 Dir ectors 	 consider 	 should 	 be 	 separately 	 disclosed 	 to 	 assist 	 in 	 	
the 	 understanding 	 of 	 the 	 underlying 	 trading 	 and 	 financial 	 performance 	 achieved 	 by 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 (see 	 Note 	 2.2 	 to 	 the 	 consolidated 	 financial 	 statements 	 2011).
07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 
The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										1 2										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Videocom Division 
Premium broadcast equipment
Supports	/	LED	lighting	/	mobile	power	/	bags	/	pr ompters
Law enforcement and defence microwave video solutions
V ideo	transmission	/	r eceive	systems	/	speciality	antennae
The Group at a glance
TV news & broadcast microwave video solutions
V ideo	transmission	/	r eceive	systems The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										3
Imaging & Staging Division
Services Division
Broadcast production support
Equipment	r ental	and	used	equipment	sales	/	fibr e	optic	integration	and	installation
Premium photographic equipment 
Supports	/	bags	/	LED	lighting	/		
lighting	accessories
Staging systems
* Manufactured and distributed under licence
* 
All	rights	r eserved.	The	above	ar e	our	trademarks	and	all	names,	characters,	images,	marks	and	logos	shown	ar e	pr otected	by	national	and	inter national		
trademark,	copyright	and	other	intellectual	pr operty	laws,	conventions,	tr eaties	and	rights	and	ar e	owned	by	The	V itec	Gr oup	plc	or	its	subsidiaries.		
Our	marks	and	our	inter est	in	them	ar e	valuable	commer cial	pr operty	and	will	be	pr otected	fr om	infringement	wher e	deemed	necessary .
V itec	benefits	significantly	fr om	the	wide	geographical	
spr ead	of	its	business.	In	2011,	45%	of	our	r evenues	
by	destination	came	fr om	North	America,	with	the	
r emainder	split	between	Eur ope	(33%),	Asia	Pacific	
(17%)	and	Rest	of	W orld	(5%).	Only	7%	of	our	r evenue	
is	derived	fr om	the	UK.	W e	curr ently	have	a	dir ect	
pr esence	in	14	countries	ar ound	the	world:	the	UK,	
USA,	Mexico,	Brazil,	Costa	Rica,	France,	Germany ,	
Italy ,	Netherlands,	Slovakia,	Israel,	Japan,	China		
and	Singapor e. 4										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Chairman	Michael	Harper		
looks	ahead	with	confidence
Chairman’ s	Statement
Y our	Company	is	well	positioned	and	the	Boar d	is	confident	in	the	pr ospects	for	futur e	
gr owth	with	a	clear	strategy ,	excellent	pr oducts,	a	focused	and	dedicated	management	
team	and	an	appr opriate	level	of	committed	finance	to	support	delivery .
Revenue	was	£351.0	million	compar ed	to	£309.6	million	in	2010		
(13.4%	higher).	W e	ar e	pleased	to	have	deliver ed	pr ofit	befor e	tax*	of	
£33.0	million	compar ed	to	£26.7	million	in	2010.	Basic	ear nings	per	
shar e	befor e	Significant	items	ar e	51.4	pence	compar ed	to	41.9	pence		
in	2010.	This	r esult	has	been	deliver ed	against	the	backgr ound	of	
continuing	uncertainty	in	the	global	economy	and	investment	in	our	
business,	notably	the	Manfr otto	Powerbrand	initiative.	Y our	Company		
is	well	positioned	and	the	Boar d	is	confident	in	the	pr ospects	for	futur e	
gr owth	with	a	clear	strategy ,	excellent	pr oducts,	a	focused	and	dedicated	
management	team	and	an	appr opriate	level	of	committed	finance	to	
support	delivery .
The	Boar d	has	r ecommended	a	final	dividend	of	12.5	pence	per	shar e	
(2010:	11.4	pence	per	shar e)	that	will	be	subject	to	appr oval	at	the	
Company’ s	Annual	General	Meeting	to	be	held	on	T uesday ,	8	May	2012.	
If	appr oved,	the	final	dividend	will	be	paid	on	Friday ,	11	May	2012	to	
shar eholders	on	the	r egister	at	the	close	of	business	on	Friday ,	20	April	
2012.	The	full	year	dividend	of	20.5	pence	per	shar e	(2010:	19.0	pence	
per	shar e)	equates	to	a	dividend	cover	of	2.5	times	(2010:	2.2	times)	
based	on	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	befor e	Significant	items.	W e	will	again	
be	of fering	the	Dividend	Reinvestment	Plan	for	the	final	dividend	to	enable	
shar eholders	to	r einvest	their	dividend	into	V itec	shar es	should	they	wish.
The	Gr oup	has	achieved	str ong	r esults		
for	2011	despite	an	uncertain	economy ,	
building	on	our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy	with	
both	organic	gr owth	and	the	acquisitions		
of	Lastolite	and	Haigh-Farr .	 The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										5
Significant	pr ogr ess	has	been	
made	in	2011	on	the	gr owth	
strategy .	The	br oadcast	and	video	
market	continued	to	r ecover .		
Our	pr oduct	businesses	have	each	
performed	str ongly ,	especially	in	
the	Asian	and	Middle	East	markets.	
In	the	photographic	market,	we	
began	to	see	the	benefits	of	
impr oved	sales	thanks	to	the	
launch	of	an	integrated	range	of	
pr oducts	under	the	Manfr otto	
brand.	This	range	was	only	fully	
distributed	thr oughout	our	key	
markets	fr om	September	2011		
and	we	have	gained	market	shar e	
since	then.	The	MAG	market	has	
pr oven	mor e	challenging	given	the	
backgr ound	of	potential	defence	
spending	constraints	but	law	
enfor cement	r emains	r esilient.		
W e	continue	to	pursue	significant	
acquisition	opportunities	in	this	
market	with	our	pr oven	technology .	
T o	support	our	gr owth	strategy		
we	made	two	acquisitions	in		
2011.	In	Mar ch	2011	we	acquir ed	
Lastolite	for	consideration	of	up		
to	£9.8	million.	This	UK	based	
business	is	a	leading	designer ,	
manufactur er	and	supplier	of	
lighting	contr ol	accessories	and	
backgr ounds	for	the	photo,	video	
and	cinema	industry .	Since	
acquisition	this	business	has		
been	successfully	integrated	into	
the	Gr oup	and	is	p e r f o r m i n g 	 i n	 	
line 	 with 	 expectations. 	In	mid-
December	2011,	we	acquir ed	
Haigh-Farr ,	a	world	leader	in		
the	design,	development	and	
manufactur e	of	flight	body	
antennae	for	simple	and	
sophisticated	communication	
applications	for	an	initial	cash	
consideration	of	$31.0	million		
(£20.0	million).	Haigh-Farr	will	
complement	the	existing	MAG	
activities	of	the	Gr oup.	
The	Boar d	has	undergone	a	series	 	
of	changes	in	2011.	W ill	Wyatt	
stood	down	fr om	the	Boar d		
after	nine	years’	service	at	the	
conclusion	of	the	Annual	General	
Meeting	on	19	May	2011.		
I	would	like	to	place	on	r ecor d	the	
Boar d’ s	thanks	to	W ill	who	gave	
valuable	service	during	this	period,	
notably	to	the	Remuneration	
Committee	and	in	the	r ole	of	Senior	
Independent	Dir ector .	Nigel	Moor e	
has	succeeded	W ill	as	Senior	
Independent	Dir ector .	Following	
Richar d	Cotton	leaving	as	Gr oup	
Finance	Dir ector	on	4	February	
2011	we	have	appointed	Paul	
Hayes	as	Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector	
with	ef fect	fr om	13	June	2011.	
Nick	Humby	acted	as	Interim		
Chief	Financial	Officer	in	the		
period	between	these	changes		
and	pr ovided	excellent	support	to	
the	Boar d	in	this	r ole.	The	Boar d	
has	also	focused	on	succession	
amongst	the	independent	Non-
Executive	Dir ectors	taking	into	
account	the	need	for	the	right	skills	
and	diversity .	The	Boar d	appointed	
John	Hughes	with	ef fect	fr om		
11	Mar ch	2011	and	Car olyn	
Fairbair n	with	ef fect	fr om		
1	February	2012	as	independent	
Non-Executive	Dir ectors.	Both	
bring	excellent	skills	to	the	Boar d	
particularly	in	the	MAG	and	
Br oadcast	sectors	and	listed	
company	envir onment.	
During	2011	the	Boar d	has	
undertaken	its	first	exter nally	
facilitated	evaluation	in	compliance	
with	the	UK	Corporate	Gover nance	
Code.	The	output	is	summarised		
in	gr eater	detail	in	the	Corporate	
Gover nance	section	of	the	Annual	
Report,	however	the	headline	
output	is	that	the	Boar d	is	highly	
capable,	ef fective	and	compliant,		
and	has	str ong	gover nance		
in	place.	The	Boar d	further	
consider ed	the	issue	of	diversity		
in	light	of	Lor d	Davies’	r eport	on	
W omen	on	Boar ds	and	the	need	
for	companies	to	r eport	on	the	
issue	of	diversity .	W e	published	our	
diversity	statement	in	September	
2011	and	ar e	working	in	
accor dance	with	it.	
Finally ,	on	behalf	of	the	Boar d		
I 	 would 	 like 	 to 	 thank 	 our 	 employees	
for	their	commitment	to,	and	
passion	for ,	the	Company ,	
particularly	enabling	significant	
pr ogr ess	on	the	Thr ee	Market	
Strategy	and	delivering	a		
good	r esult	for	2011.
Michael Harper
Chairman
*		 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011). 6										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Gr oup	Chief	Executive	Stephen	Bir d		
r eviews	performance	and	strategy
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
Our	str ong	performance	in	2011	was		
driven	by	sales	of	established	pr oducts,		
the	launch	of	new	pr oducts	including	
Manfr otto	Powerbrand	and	an	ear nings	
enhancing	acquisition.	
Financial performance 
V itec	deliver ed	str ong	pr ofitable	gr owth	
in	2011	as	we	continued	to	execute	
our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy .
Reported	r evenue	r ose	by	13.4%,	to	
£351.0	million	(2010:	£309.6	million)	
including	contributions	for	part	of	the	
year	fr om	Lastolite	acquir ed	in	Mar ch	
2011	and	Haigh-Farr	acquir ed	in	
December	2011.	Revenue	was	
boosted	by	str ong	gr owth	in	our	
br oadcast 	 and 	 photographic 	 equipment	
markets	and	continued	pr ogr ess	in		
a	lumpy	MAG	market.
Reported 	 operating 	 pr ofit* 	 incr eased 	 	
by 	 24.5% 	 to 	 £34.5 	 million 	 (2010:	 	
£27.7 	 million), 	 with 	 organic 	 gr owth 	 of	
18.0% 	 at 	 constant 	 exchange 	 rates.	 	
The 	 operating 	 margin 	 incr eased 	 to	
9.8% 	 (2010: 	 8.9%). 	 Reported 	 Gr oup	
pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax* 	 was 	 23.6% 	 higher 	 at 	
£33.0 	 million 	 or 	 16.8% 	 on 	 an 	 organic	
basis 	 at 	 constant 	 exchange 	 rates.	
Underlying 	 Gr oup 	 basic 	 ear nings 	 per	
shar e* 	 was 	 up 	 22.7% 	 at 	 51.4 	 pence	
per 	 shar e 	 (2010: 	 41.9 	 pence 	 per 	 shar e).
Cash	generation	was	good	and		
as	planned,	with	fr ee	cash	flow	of	
£17.3	million	(2010:	£18.0	million)	after	
incr eases	in	inventory	and	r eceivables	
to	support	sales	gr owth	and	new	
pr oduct	launches	including	Manfr otto	
Powerbrand.	The	working	capital	to	
sales	ratio	r emained	steady	at	15.9%	
(31	December	2010:	15.8%).
Net 	 debt 	 at 	 31 	 December 	 2011 	 was	
£50.4 	 million 	 (31 	 December 	 2010:	 	
£28.1 	 million) 	 with 	 the 	 incr ease 	 primarily	
r eflecting 	 £28.7 	 million 	 of 	 acquisitions 	
made 	 in 	 the 	 year . 	 This 	 was 	 financed 	 by 	
£24.4 	 million 	 of 	 drawings 	 under 	 our	
£100 	 million 	 r evolving 	 cr edit 	 facility 	 and	
$50 	 million 	 (£32.2 	 million) 	 drawn 	 fr om 	 a	
new 	 $75 	 million 	 Private 	 Placement 	 shelf	
facility 	 that 	 was 	 put 	 in 	 place 	 during 	 the	
year . 	 V itec’ s 	 balance 	 sheet 	 r emains	
str ong 	 with 	 a 	 year -end 	 net 	 debt 	 to	
EBITDA 	 ratio 	 of 	 1.0 	 times 	 (31 	 December	
2010: 	 0.7 	 times).	
Three Market Strategy
W e	continued	to	execute	successfully	
our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy	in	2011.
Broadcast and video
W e	have	leading	brands	in	the	
br oadcast	and	video	market	which	
comprises	pr oducts	and	services	
aimed	at	television	networks	and	
studios	(br oadcast)	and	corporate,	
r eligious	and	educational		
entities	(video).
In	the	br oadcast	sector	we	have	
continued	to	maintain	our	pr emium	
market	position	and	believe	that		
we	have	incr eased	our	shar e	of	this	
market	thr ough	our	ability	to	bundle	
pr oducts	for	br oadcast	studios	and	
on-location	needs.	In	the	video	sector	
we	launched	a	major	new	range	of	
supports,	the	Sachtler	Ace,	designed	
for	the	needs	of	the	independent	
cameraman.	
*		 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011).
Up
+13.4%
Group revenue
£351.0m	
Revenue  
£m
         315.1
      309.6 
        351.0
09 10 11  The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										7
Photographic
W e	continued	to	supply	our	range		
of 	 pr oducts 	 (tripods, 	 heads, 	 bags, 	 and	
lighting	supports	and	contr ols)	to	the	
pr ofessional	photographic	segment.	
W e	have	also	invested	in	and	launched	
a	new	range	of	tripods,	bags,	lighting	
and	other	photographic	pr oducts	to	
the	consumer	segment	as	part	of	our	
Manfr otto	Powerbrand	sales	initiative.	
In	the	pr ofessional	segment,	we	
continued	to	serve	the	traditional	
photographic	speciality	stor es.	In	the	
consumer	segment,	we	incr eased	our	
penetration	in	consumer	e l e c t r o n i c s	
stor es 	 and 	 in 	 mass 	 mer chandiser	
outlets	as	well	as	online.	Based	on	
independent	r esear ch	data,	we	have	
incr eased	our	market	shar e	in	the		
US	and	in	Eur ope	in	tripods	and	bags.
Military, aerospace and 
government (MAG)
W e	continue	to	leverage	our	br oadcast	
micr owave	technology	into	the	MAG	
market.	W e	have	had	success	in	
winning	significant	or ders	particularly		
in	the	law	enfor cement	segment	and	
have	begun	to	make	inr oads	in	the	
defence	segment,	especially	for	
unmanned	applications,	though	the	
pr ecise	timing	of	futur e	or ders		
r emains	uncertain.	
Product development
W e	continue	to	invest	in	new	pr oducts	
and	enhancements	to	our	existing	
range 	 and 	 in 	 our 	 r esear ch, 	 development	
and 	 engineering 	 capabilities. 	 After	 	
adjusting	for	capitalised	expenditur e		
of	£0.1	million	(2010:	£1.5	million)		
and	amortisation	of	£0.5	million		
(2010:	£0.2	million),	r esear ch,	
development	and	engineering	
expenditur e	on	a	like-for -like	basis		
was	£11.8	million	(2010:	£10.6	million).	
This	r epr esents	an	investment	equal	to	
4% 	 of 	 Gr oup 	 pr oduct 	 sales 	 (2010: 	 4%)	
a f t e r 	 a d j u s t i n g 	for	£0.5	million	of	
expenditur e 	 incurr ed 	 in 	 the 	 Clear -Com	
business	which	was	sold	in	2010.
Acquisitions and disposals
W e	acquir ed	Lastolite	in	Mar ch		
2011	for	a	total	potential	consideration	
of	£9.8	million	to	augment	our		
range	of	lighting	accessories	for	the	
photographic	market.	Lastolite	
supplies	a	market-leading	range	of	
lighting	contr ols	such	as	r eflectors		
and	has	been	successfully	integrated	
into	our	Imaging	&	Staging	Division.	
As	part	of	our	gr owth	into	the		
MAG	market,	we	acquir ed	Haigh-Farr	
in	mid-December	2011	for	an	initial	
cash	consideration	of	$31.0	million		
(£20.0	million)	subject	to	working	
capital	adjustments.	Haigh-Farr	
designs,	develops	and	manufactur es	
high	performance	antennae	for	
defence,	space	and	commer cial	
applications	and	we	ar e	confident	that	
it	will	enhance	our	penetration	into	
these	markets.
Our people
W e	continue	to	invest	in	the	
development	of	our	people	as		
the	capability	and	capacity	of	our	
organisation	is	a	cor e	component	of	
our	strategy .	In	2012	we	will	continue	
to	focus	on	attracting	and	engaging	
the	very	best	talent.
Opportunities for 2012  
and beyond
W e 	 have 	 good 	 short, 	 mid 	 and 	 long-term	
pr ospects	in	our	thr ee	main	markets.	
The 	 br oadcast 	 market 	 is 	 anticipated 	 to	
benefit	fr om	continued	changes	in	
camera	technology	and	has	become	
less 	 dependent 	 on 	 advertising 	 r evenue	
as	subscription	television	gains	in	
popularity . 	 Whilst 	 cost 	 pr essur es 	 in 	 the	
MAG 	 market 	 continue 	 and 	 the 	 timing 	 of	
the	awar ds	of	large	contracts	r emains	
variable,	we	believe	that	we	ar e	well-
placed	given	our	focus	on	intelligence,	
surveillance	and	r econnaissance,	
especially	on	unmanned	applications.	
Photography	continues	to	attract	new	
customers	as	the	number	and	type	of	
image-taking 	 devices 	 incr eases 	 and 	 the	
distribution	of	images	via	social	media	
becomes	mor e	popular .
Summary and outlook
In	2011	we	achieved	str ong	sales	
gr owth	in	the	Br oadcast	market		
wher e	V itec	has	an	extensive	global	
pr esence	with	well-established	market	
leading	pr oducts.	W e	have	continued	
to	invest	in	new	pr oduct	development	
and	early	sales	of	our	Manfr otto	
Powerbrand	have	exceeded	
expectations.	W e	have	added	market	
leading	pr oducts	and	technologies	
thr ough	our	Lastolite	and	Haigh-Farr	
acquisitions	and	made	encouraging	
pr ogr ess	in	the	lumpy	MAG	market.
	
Although	the	macr oeconomic	
envir onment	is	uncertain,	we	ar e	
investing 	 in 	 thr ee 	 cor e 	 markets 	 that 	 we	
believe	have	good	underlying	gr owth	
drivers.	W e	ther efor e	anticipate	
another	year	of	pr ogr ess	in	2012.
Stephen Bird
Gr oup	Chief	Executive
3
market
strategy 8										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Broadcast & video market update
3
market
strategy
Increase in video 
Ther e 	 has 	 been 	 a 	 significant 	 incr ease 	 in 	
the 	 amount 	 of 	 video 	 being 	 shot 	 globally .	
This 	 has 	 been 	 stimulated 	 by 	 the 	 ease 	 with	
which 	 videographers 	 can 	 captur e, 	 edit	 	
and 	 distribute 	 content 	 (for 	 example, 	 over	
the 	 inter net 	 on 	 Y ouT ube 	 and 	 a 	 gr eater	
popularity 	 of 	 hand-held 	 devices). 	 It 	 has	
also 	 gr own 	 thanks 	 to 	 the 	 incr eased 	 v i d e o	
capabilities 	 of 	 photographic 	 cameras.
Higher production values
Ther e 	 is 	 a 	 continued 	 tr end 	 towar ds 	 higher 	 pr oduction 	 values	
and 	 image 	 quality 	 in 	 br oadcast 	 which 	 is 	 shortening 	 camera	
r eplacement 	 cycles. 	 The 	 first 	 wave 	 of 	 high 	 definition 	 (1K) 	 is 	
well 	 underway 	 but 	 ther e 	 ar e 	 further 	 waves 	 (2K 	 and 	 4K) 	 to	
come. 	 In 	 addition 	 the 	 need 	 for 	 cr eative 	 dif fer entiation 	 has	
encouraged 	 the 	 development 	 of 	 new 	 cameras 	 which 	 can	
of fer 	 a 	 dif fer ent 	 image, 	 for 	 example 	 a 	 “film 	 look” 	 to 	 a 	 TV 	 show . 	
Broadcasters capital expenditure
Br oadcasters 	 ar e 	 curr ently 	 able 	 to 	 af for d	
capital 	 expenditur e 	 pr ojects 	 such 	 as 	 the	
construction 	 or 	 r efurbishment 	 of 	 studios.	
Those 	 br oadcasters 	 r eliant 	 on 	 subscription	
income 	 such 	 as 	 Sky 	 and 	 ESPN 	 have	
performed 	 well 	 despite 	 the 	 downtur n 	 between	
2009 	 and 	 2011 	 and 	 have 	 expanded 	 with	
new 	 operations 	 globally . 	 Likewise 	 in 	 emerging	
markets 	 such 	 as 	 Brazil, 	 China 	 and 	 the 	 states	
of 	 the 	 former 	 Soviet 	 Union, 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 desir e	
to 	 upgrade 	 old 	 facilities 	 and 	 ther e 	 is 	 now	
the 	 financial 	 capability 	 to 	 do 	 so. 	 The 	 savings 	
of fer ed 	 by 	 LED 	 lighting 	 compar ed 	 with	
traditional 	 lighting 	 over 	 the 	 life 	 of 	 the 	 pr oduct	
drive 	 the 	 r eplacement 	 of 	 those 	 pr oducts 	 too.
Vitec supplies the broadcast market with a variety  
of products and services to assist in the capture  
and transmission of video images. The products 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec are camera 
supports (pedestals, tripods and heads), bags,  
LED lights, prompters, mobile power (batteries  
and chargers) and microwave systems. The  
services provided by Vitec include broadcast 
equipment rental and installation. 
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 br oadcast 	 and 	 video 	 market 	 for	 	
pr oducts 	 and 	 services 	 supplied 	 by 	 Vitec 	 was 	 worth 	 ar ound	 	
£750 	 million 	 in 	 2011. 	 This 	 includes 	 the 	 traditional 	 br oadcast	 	
and 	 film 	 markets 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 the 	 video 	 pr oduction 	 market. 	
THE  
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										9
Broadcast equipment	
T o 	 maintain 	 our 	 shar e 	 and 	 position 	 in 	 manual 	 camera 	 supports 	 and	
portable 	 power 	 and 	 to 	 gr ow 	 our 	 shar e 	 in 	 r obotic 	 camera 	 systems,	
in 	 LED 	 lighting 	 and 	 in 	 micr owave 	 systems 	 outside 	 the 	 US. 	 W e 	 ar e	
investing 	 in 	 incr easing 	 our 	 service 	 of fering 	 to 	 customers 	 by 	 cr eating	
bespoke 	 one-stop 	 solutions.
Broadcast services 	
T o 	 focus 	 on 	 large 	 events 	 wher e 	 higher 	 pr oduction 	 values 	 ar e 	 most	
needed 	 and 	 to 	 secur e 	 multi-year 	 contracts 	 for 	 those 	 events.	
Video 
T o 	 develop 	 new 	 pr oducts 	 and 	 new 	 sales 	 channels 	 to 	 gr ow 	 our	
shar e 	 of 	 this 	 fast 	 gr owing 	 segment 	 which 	 we 	 serve 	 primarily 	 with	 	
our 	 Sachtler 	 and 	 Manfr otto 	 brands. 	 W e 	 also 	 bundle 	 our 	 pr oducts	 	
to 	 of fer 	 a 	 compelling 	 package 	 for 	 this 	 segment.	
Other markets 	
Wher e 	 attractive 	 and 	 feasible, 	 we 	 will 	 leverage 	 our 	 pr oducts 	 fr om	
the 	 Br oadcast 	 market 	 into 	 other 	 markets. 	 An 	 example 	 of 	 this 	 is 	 the	
use 	 of 	 our 	 batteries 	 and 	 chargers 	 for 	 the 	 US 	 medical 	 carts 	 market.	
VITEC MARKET POSITION
Supports Lighting
W ith	our	multiple	brands	(comprising	V inten,	
Sachtler ,	OConnor ,	V inten	Radamec	and	
Manfr otto)	covering	br oadcast	manual	
supports	and	r obotic	systems	and	supports	
for	the	video	segment,	we	have	the	pr emium	
position	and	largest	market	shar e.
Litepanels 	 led 	 the 	 way 	 in 	 the 	 adoption 	 of 	 LED	
lighting 	 in 	 the 	 video 	 segment 	 and 	 “on 	 location”	
for 	 br oadcast. 	 It 	 is 	 now 	 also 	 the 	 leader 	 in 	 the	 	
use 	 of 	 LEDs 	 for 	 use 	 in 	 br oadcast 	 studios.
Bags
W ith 	 our 	 Petr ol 	 and 	 Kata 	 brands, 	 we 	 ar e 	 the	
number 	 one 	 (by 	 value) 	 in 	 the 	 supply 	 of 	 bags	
for 	 the 	 video 	 segment.
Prompting
W ith 	 our 	 Autoscript 	 brand, 	 we 	 ar e 	 the 	 number	
one 	 (by 	 value) 	 for 	 pr ompting 	 equipment 	 to 	 the	
br oadcast 	 market.	
Mobile Power
Anton/Bauer 	 is 	 the 	 leading 	 brand 	 with 	 a 	 number	 	
one 	 position 	 (by 	 value) 	 in 	 the 	 after -market 	 for 	 camera	
batteries 	 and 	 chargers 	 in 	 the 	 br oadcast 	 sector .
Microwave Systems
IMT 	 is 	 the 	 number 	 two 	 in 	 the 	 br oadcast	
segment 	 and 	 the 	 number 	 one 	 in 	 the 	 US 	 video	
segment, 	 wher e 	 its 	 equipment 	 is 	 also 	 used 	 in	
sports 	 and 	 entertainment 	 applications.
OUR STRATEGY
Vitec 	 has 	 the 	premium position 	 and	
largest 	 market 	 shar e 10										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
3
market
strategy
THE  
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Continued growth in sales  
of cameras 
Ther e 	 has 	 been 	 continued 	 gr owth 	 in 	 sales	
of 	 cameras: 	 digital 	 SLR 	 unit 	 sales 	 have	
been 	 gr owing 	 at 	 over 	 20% 	 per 	 annum.	
Further 	 gr owth 	 of 	 SLR 	 volumes 	 is 	 expected	
due 	 to 	 the 	 impr oved 	 video 	 capability 	 of 	 the	
latest 	 models 	 as 	 video 	 and 	 photography	
converge. 	 A 	 new 	 type 	 of 	 camera, 	 known	
as 	 compact 	 inter -changeable 	 or 	 compact	
system 	 cameras, 	 has 	 also 	 been 	 heavily	
pr omoted 	 by 	 manufactur ers. 	 These	
cameras 	 ar e 	 priced 	 significantly 	 higher 	 than 	
the 	 old 	 “point 	 and 	 shoot” 	 camera 	 and 	 thus	
should 	 generate 	 demand 	 for 	 accessories.	
The new social recorders
Ther e 	 is 	 a 	 new 	 population 	 of	
photographers 	 who 	 ar e 	 inter ested 	 in	
r ecor ding 	 images. 	 These 	 “social 	 r ecor ders”	
ar e 	 using 	 smart 	 phones 	 with 	 high 	 mega-
pixel 	 lenses 	 (such 	 as 	 the 	 iPhone 	 4S) 	 to	
take 	 images 	 and 	 shar e 	 them 	 using 	 social	
media 	 networks. 	 The 	 emergence 	 of 	 a	 	
new 	 middle 	 class 	 in 	 BRIC 	 countries 	 has	
contributed 	 significantly 	 to 	 this 	 new 	
population 	 of 	 photographers.
New distribution  
channels
The 	 emergence 	 of 	 new 	 distribution	
channels 	 (such 	 as 	 online 	 and 	 in 	 consumer	
electr onics 	 stor es) 	 for 	 photographic	
pr oducts 	 has 	 helped 	 stimulate 	 demand	
fr om 	 new 	 consumers.	
Photographic market update
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
10										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Vitec supplies this market with a variety of products for 
the photographic camera. These comprise products 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec and third party 
products distributed by Vitec. The equipment 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec are camera supports 
(tripods and heads), bags, lighting supports, LED  
lights and lighting controls (for example, umbrellas  
and reflectors). The primary third party product  
distributed by Vitec is flash lights. 
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 photographic 	 market 	 for 	 pr oduct 	 categories	 	
supplied 	 or 	 distributed 	 by 	 V itec 	 was 	 worth 	 ar ound 	 £830 	 million	 	
i n 	 2 0 1 1 . 	 Of	this	market,	appr oximately	half	is	pur chased	by		
pr ofessional	photographers	who	we	have	supplied	historically		
and	whose	business	is	taking	images.	The	r emainder	ar e	sold		
to	consumers,	that	we	ar e	now	actively	serving,	who	have	a		
keen	inter est	in	photography	or ,	incr easingly ,	a	new	population		
of	photographers	who	simply	want	to	r ecor d	and	shar e	images.	 Supports
Lighting
Bags
W ith 	 its 	 high 	 quality 	 and 	 innovative	 	
pr oducts 	 sold 	 under 	 the 	 Manfr otto 	 and	
Gitzo 	 names, 	 we 	 have 	 the 	 pr emier 	 brands	
in 	 photographic 	 camera 	 tripods 	 and 	 heads.	
W e 	 ar e 	 the 	 clear 	 leader 	 in 	 terms 	 of 	 market	
shar e 	 (by 	 value) 	 globally .
In 	 lighting 	 supports, 	 which 	 ar e 	 primarily 	 used 	 in 	 the 	 pr ofessional	
sector , 	 Manfr otto 	 is 	 the 	 market 	 leader 	 (by 	 value). 	 In 	 lighting 	 contr ols	
such 	 as 	 umbr ellas 	 and 	 r eflectors, 	 Lastolite 	 is 	 the 	 market 	 leader 	 in 	
EMEA 	 and 	 gaining 	 shar e 	 in 	 the 	 USA. 	 In 	 lighting, 	 the 	 use 	 of 	 LEDs 	 is	
gaining 	 pr ominence 	 as 	 a 	 mor e 	 efficient 	 r eplacement 	 for 	 traditional 	
lighting 	 and 	 Manfr otto 	 is 	 at 	 the 	 for efr ont 	 of 	 the 	 intr oduction 	 of 	 LEDs.
Sold 	 under 	 the 	 Manfr otto, 	 Kata 	 and 	 (under	
licence) 	 the 	 National 	 Geographic 	 brands,	
we 	 continue 	 to 	 gain 	 shar e 	 in 	 this 	 large	
pr oduct 	 category . 	 W e 	 ar e 	 a 	 leader 	 in 	 the	
global 	 market 	 in 	 terms 	 of 	 market 	 shar e	 	
(by 	 value).
Vitec 	 has 	 the 	premier brands 	 in	
photographic 	 camera 	 tripods 	 and 	 heads
VITEC MARKET POSITION
OUR STRATEGY
Professionals 
T o	maintain	our	leadership	in	the	pr ofessional	and	keen	amateurs	
segments	with	our	range	of	Manfr otto	and	Gitzo	camera	supports.
Consumers
T o	gr ow	the	Manfr otto	brand	and	its	market	shar e	by	leveraging	
its	str ength	into	adjacent	pr oducts	(such	as	bags	and	lights),	into	
pr emium	consumer	segments	and	into	new	distribution	channels	
(such	as	consumer	electr onics	stor es	and	online).	
T o	incr ease	penetration	of	photographic	pr oducts into	the	market	
by	explaining	better	the	benefits	of	the	pr oducts	and	by	engaging	
with	customers.	
T o	deliver	an	integrated	range	of	accessories	fr om	the	same	
manufactur er	(Manfr otto):	we	ar e	able	to	accompany		
a	photographer	thr oughout	his	entir e	imaging	experience.	
The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										11 12										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
3
market
strategy
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
MAG market update
Ther e 	 is 	 an 	 incr easing 	 demand 	 for 	 r eal-time	
high 	 quality 	 video 	 images 	 to 	 be 	 transmitted	
and 	 r eceived 	 wir elessly 	 by 	 law 	 enfor cement	
agencies 	 and 	 military 	 users. 	 This 	 technology	
pr ovides 	 users 	 with 	 gr eater 	 situational	
awar eness, 	 for 	 example, 	 for 	 cr owd 	 contr ol,	
and, 	 in 	 unmanned 	 applications, 	 minimises	
the 	 potential 	 loss 	 of 	 human 	 life.
Vitec manufactures and supplies the MAG market  
with microwave transmitters and receivers and now 
antennae via Haigh-Farr, our most recent acquisition. 
>		Law enforcement	
agencies 	 such 	 as	 	
police 	 departments 	 –	 	
for 	 example 	 to 	 send	
video 	 signals 	 fr om	
helicopters 	 to	 	
gr ound 	 patr ols
>		3-letter agencies	 	
such	as	the	US	
Department 	 of 	 Justice	
who 	 use 	 micr owave	
equipment	for	
surveillance 	 purposes
>		Defence	 	
customers 	 wher e	
micr owave 	 systems	 	
ar e 	 used 	 to 	 r ecognise	
and 	 assess 	 thr eats	 	
mor e 	 ef fectively	
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 MAG 	 market 	 for 	 pr oducts 	 supplied 	 by 	 Vitec 	 was 	 worth	
ar ound 	 £400 	 million 	 in 	 2011.	
THE GROWTH 
DRIVERS
OUR  
STRATEGY
> 	 T o 	 expand 	 our 	 pr oduct 	 of fering 	 to	 	
include 	 other 	 major 	 pr oducts 	 in	 	
a 	 micr owave 	 system 	 besides	 	
transmitters 	 and 	 r eceivers	
> 	 T o 	 build 	 on 	 our 	 leading 	 market 	 position	 	
in 	 the 	 law 	 enfor cement 	 segment 	 by	
continuing 	 to 	 of fer 	 the 	 latest 	 technology	
> 	 T o 	 leverage 	 our 	 good 	 r elationship 	 with 	 the	
US 	 Department 	 of 	 Justice 	 to 	 win 	 or ders	
fr om 	 other 	 thr ee 	 letter 	 agencies	
> 	 T o 	 become 	 mor e 	 widely 	 known 	 in	 	
the 	 military 	 segment 	 and 	 focus 	 on	 	
unmanned 	 applications	
Vitec serves:
12										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011 Haigh-Farr 	 is 	 a 	 world 	 leader 	 in 	 the 	 design, 	 development	
and	manufactur e	of	flight-body	antennae	for	simple	
and	sophisticated	communication	applications.	It	
primarily	serves	the	defence	and	space	markets	
pr oviding	high	quality ,	application	specific	antennae	
for	challenging	communication	envir onments.
Products and history
Based 	 in 	 Bedfor d, 	 New 	 Hampshir e, 	 US, 	 Haigh-Farr 	 has 	 over	
thirty 	 years 	 of 	 experience 	 in 	 the 	 design 	 and 	 manufactur e 	 of 	 high	
quality 	 antennae. 	 It 	 of fers 	 a 	 br oad 	 range 	 of 	 antenna 	 technologies	
and 	 has 	 an 	 inter national 	 r eputation 	 for 	 pr oduct 	 and 	 performance	
excellence.	It	pioneer ed	the	W rapar ound
™
	antenna	concept	
which	has	enhanced	the	performance	capabilities	of	air craft,	
missiles	and	spacecraft	worldwide.	Haigh-Farr’ s	customers	
include	a	number	of	leading	US	prime	contractors.
Antennae 	 ar e 	 a 	 key 	 element 	 of 	 a 	 micr owave 	 system 	 that	
complement 	 our 	 existing 	 range 	 of 	 transmitters 	 and 	 r eceivers.
Growth potential and synergies
> 	 As 	 defence 	 pr oducts 	 and 	 space 	 vehicles 	 become 	 mor e	
sophisticated, 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 need 	 for 	 mor e 	 sophisticated 	 antennae	
to 	 send 	 signals 	 back 	 to 	 command 	 and 	 contr ol 	 centr es
> 	 Haigh-Farr 	 should 	 benefit 	 fr om 	 our 	 inter national 	 pr esence 	
including 	 our 	 salesfor ce 	 in 	 Eur ope 	 and 	 Asia
> 	 Haigh-Farr’ s 	 long-established 	 existing 	 customer 	 base 	 of 	 US	
prime 	 contractors 	 should 	 enable 	 us 	 to 	 gain 	 access 	 to 	 those	
customers 	 mor e 	 easily
> 	 Haigh-Farr’ s 	 conformal 	 technology 	 can 	 be 	 r eadily 	 adapted	 	
for 	 our 	 unmanned 	 applications
ACQUISITION: 
HAIGH-FARR 
The 	 Mars 	 Science 	 Laboratory 	 launched 	 in 	 November 	 2011 	 by 	 an 	 Atlas 	 V	
r ocket. 	 Both 	 the 	 Mars 	 Science 	 Laboratory 	 and 	 the 	 r ocket 	 ar e 	 installed 	 with	
Haigh-Farr 	 antennae 	 and 	 telemetric 	 systems.
The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										13 14										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011 14										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Gr oup	r evenue
£351.0m
up	13.4%
Gr oup	operating	pr ofit*
£34.5m
up	24.5%
Gr oup	basic	ear nings	per	shar e*
51.4p
up	22.7%
Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector	Paul	Hayes		
r eviews	performance	
Financial	Review
Vitec 	 has 	 continued 	 to 	 str engthen 	 its 	 business.	
The 	 2011 	 r esults 	 have 	 benefitted 	 fr om 	 market 	
gr owth 	 and 	 the 	 launch 	 of 	 new 	 pr oducts.	 	
W e 	 have 	 integrated 	 Lastolite 	 successfully	 	
into 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 and 	 acquir ed 	 Haigh-Farr .	 	
W e 	 continue 	 to 	 maintain 	 str ong 	 contr ol	 	
over 	 our 	 working 	 capital.
Revenue 
The	Gr oup’ s	r eported	r evenue	incr eased	by	£41.4	million	to	
£351.0	million	which	was	a	rise	of	13.4%	in	the	year .	Acquisitions	
added	£5.8	million	and	these	wer e	partly	of fset	by	the	loss	of		
£5.3	million	of	r evenue	fr om	Clear -Com	that	was	sold	in	the	prior	
year .	On	an	underlying	basis,	excluding	the	impact	of	£4.1	million	
of	adverse	changes	in	exchange	rates	and	the	net	impact	of	
acquisitions 	 and 	 disposals, 	 r evenue 	 gr ew 	 by 	 £45.0 	 million 	 or 	 15.0%.	
Operating profit 
Operating	pr ofit*	r ose	by	£6.8	million	to	£34.5	million	with	the	
Gr oup’ s	operating	margin	incr easing	by	90	basis	points	to	9.8%.	
The	gr owth	in	operating	pr ofit	consisted	of	a	£5.0	million	or		
18.0%	underlying	incr ease,	a	£1.3	million	net	contribution	fr om	
acquisitions/disposal	and	a	£0.5	million	benefit	fr om	favourable	
for eign	exchange	movements	after	a	£1.8	million	year -on-year	
benefit	fr om	hedging.	Ther e	has	been	an	incr ease	in	operating	
expenditur e	to	support	the	launch	of	Manfr otto	Powerbrand	and	
the	incr ease	in	sales	volume	acr oss	the	Gr oup.	Our	estimate	of	
these	main	drivers	ar e	summarised	in	the	following	table:
Operating profit before Significant items* 
2010-11 Variance Analysis (£ million)
2010	Operating	pr ofit*	 	 27.7
Gr oss	margin	ef fects:
-	V olume,	mix	and	efficiency	 19.6
-	Sales	price	less	cost	inflation	 (0.3)
Operating	expenses	 (14.3)
		 5.0
Acquisitions/disposal	 	 1.3
For eign	exchange	ef fects:
-	T ranslation	 (0.3)
-	T ransaction	after	hedging	 0.8
		 0.5
2011 Operating profit*  34.5
Net financial expense
Net	financial	expense	befor e	Significant	items*	totalled		
£1.5	million	(2010:	£1.0	million).	Inter est	payable	was	£1.9	million	
(2010:	£1.2	million)	and	was	cover ed	26	times	(2010:	36	times)		
by	ear nings	befor e	inter est,	tax,	depr eciation	and	amortisation.	
The	higher	finance	costs	r eflect	the	level	of	debt	and	include	the	
impact	of	a	$50	million	draw-down	against	the	new	$75	million	
Private	Placement	shelf	facility	which	was	put	in	place	during		
the	year .
Profit before tax
Pr ofit	befor e	tax*	incr eased	by	£6.3	million	to	£33.0	million		
(2010:	£26.7	million).	On	an	organic	constant	exchange	rate		
basis	this	r epr esents	16.8%	gr owth.	The	r eported	pr ofit	befor e		
tax	and	after	Significant	items	was	up	by	9.7%	to	£23.8	million.
Taxation
The	ef fective	taxation	rate	on	operating	pr ofit	after	net	finance	
expense	but	befor e	Significant	items*	r emained	unchanged	at		
33%	(2010:	33%).	Our	tax	charge	is	higher	than	the	UK	statutory	
rate	because	the	majority	of	our	pr ofits	arise	in	overseas	
jurisdictions	with	higher	tax	rates.
Earnings per share
Basic	ear nings	per	shar e*	was	51.4	pence	per	shar e		
(2010:	41.9	pence	per	shar e)	r epr esenting	gr owth	of	22.7%.		
This	r eflects	the	gr owth	in	operating	pr ofit*	partly	of fset	by	a		
higher	net	finance	expense	and	a	higher	weighted	average		
number	of	shar es.	The	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	after	Significant	
items	was	34.7	pence	per	shar e	(2010:	42.8	pence	per	shar e). The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										15 The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										15
	 		 		
KPI Measure	 2011		 2010	 Definition/Calculation
Delivering value to shareholders    
Basic	ear nings	per	shar e*	 51.4p	 41.9p	 Pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	after	tax,	befor e	Significant	items	divided		 	
	 	 	 by	the	weighted	average	number	of	shar es	in	issue	during	the	financial	year .
Retur n	on	sales*	 9.8%	 8.9%	 Operating	pr ofit	for	the	financial	year	befor e	Significant	items,	divided	by		 	
	 	 	 r evenue	for	the	financial	year .
Fr ee	cash	flow	 £17.3m £18.0m	 Cash	generated	fr om	operations	in	the	financial	year	after	net	capital		 	
	 	 	 expenditur e	(including	capitalised	softwar e	and	development	costs),		
	 	 	 inter est	and	tax	paid	in	the	financial	year .
Controlling our working capital:    
W orking	capital	to	sales		 15.9%	 15.8%	 W orking	capital	at	the	end	of	the	financial	year	divided	by	annualised	Q4		 	
	 	 	 (October ,	November	and	December)	r evenue.
	 	 	 W orking	capital	at	the	end	of	the	financial	year	comprises	net	inventories,		 	
	 	 	 trade	and	other	r eceivables	and	trade	and	other	payables.
Inventory	days	 109 days	 104	days	 Inventory ,	net	of	impairment	pr ovisions,	at	the	end	of	the	financial	year	divided		
	 	 	 by	Q4	cost	of	sales	(befor e	exchange	gains/losses)	times	number	of	days	in	Q4.
T rade	r eceivable	days	 38 days	 39	days	 T rade	r eceivables,	net	of	impairment	pr ovisions,	at	the	end	of	the	financial	year		
	 	 	 divided	by	Q4	r evenue	times	number	of	days	in	Q4.
T rade	payable	days	 49 days	 44	days	 T rade	payables	at	the	end	of	the	financial	year	divided	by	Q4	cost	of	sales		
	 	 	 (befor e	exchange	gains/losses)	times	number	of	days	in	Q4.
Growing the business    
Constant	curr ency	organic	r evenue	gr owth	 15.0%	 4.3%	 Constant	curr ency	r evenue	of	the	curr ent	financial	year	(excluding	exter nal		
	 	 	 r evenue	fr om	acquir ed	businesses)	divided	by	total	r evenue	of	the	prior		 	
	 	 	 financial	year	(excluding	r evenue	fr om	divested	businesses)	less	1	times	100%.
Constant	curr ency	organic	operating	pr ofit	gr owth*	 18.0%	 3.2%	 Constant 	 curr ency 	 operating 	 pr ofit 	 of 	 the 	 curr ent 	 financial 	 year 	 (excluding 	 operating 	 	
	 	 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 acquir ed 	 businesses) 	 divided 	 by 	 operating 	 pr ofit 	 of 	 the 	 prior 	 financial 	 	
	 	 	 year 	 (excluding 	 operating 	 pr ofit 	 fr om 	 divested 	 businesses) 	 less 	 1 	 times 	 100%.
	 		 Constant currency:	prior	year	adjusted	for	for eign	exchange	translation,		 	
	 	 	 curr ent	year	adjusted	for	for eign	exchange	transactions.	
	 		 Acquired businesses:	exclude	exter nal	r evenue	and	operating	pr ofit	for	each		
	 	 	 month	in	the	curr ent	financial	year	with	no	comparative	amount	in	the	same		
	 	 	 month	of	the	prior	financial	year .	
	 		 Divested businesses:	exclude	exter nal	r evenue	and	operating	pr ofit	for	each		
	 	 	 month	in	the	prior	financial	year	with	no	comparative	amount	in	the	same		 	
	 	 	 month	of	the	curr ent	financial	year .
Financial Key Performance Indicators 
The	Boar d	and	Operations	Executive	monitor	a	number	of	financial	key	performance	indicators	(KPIs),	to	measur e	our	performance		
over	time.	T argets	for	these	KPIs	ar e	set	annually	during	our	budgetary	pr ocess,	in	line	with	our	strategic	objectives	and	may	be		
subject	to	r efinement	in	accor dance	with	the	needs	of	the	business.	Details	of	our	performance	against	each	of	our	finance	r elated		
KPIs	is	set	out	below:
Revenue by Destination
UK
£26.0m
(2010: £22.8m)
Americas
£164.4m
(2010: £154.0m)
Rest of the World
£71.3m
(2010: £60.0m)
Rest of Europe
£89.3m
(2010: £72.8m)
Revenue by Division
Services 
£31.6m
(2010: £34.3m)
Imaging & Staging 
£183.2m
(2010: £153.7m)
Videocom
£136.2m 
(2010: £121.6m)
*		 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011). 16										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Significant items
The	2011	Significant	items	r elate	to	our	acquisition	activities	and	
amortisation	of	pr eviously	acquir ed	intangibles.	The	amortisation	of	
acquir ed	intangibles	decr eased	to	£3.2	million	(2010:	£7.6	million)	
mainly	due	to	the	intangibles	acquir ed	with	IMT	being	fully	
amortised	by	the	end	of	the	first	half	of	2010.	
Ther e	is	a	one-of f	£5.2	million	goodwill	impairment	charge	r elating	
to	the	Gr oup’ s	full	impairment	of	its	investment	in	the	Staging	
business	(2010:	£nil).	While	the	business	was	trading	in	line		
with	expectations	in	2011,	we	have	r eassessed	its	longer -term	
pr ospects	and	concluded	that	these	do	not	support	the	carrying	
value	of	goodwill.	
Other 	 Significant 	 items 	 in 	 operating 	 pr ofit 	 ar e 	 acquisition 	 costs 	 	
of	£0.8	million	r elating	to	the	acquisitions	of	Lastolite	and		
Haigh-Farr .	Ther e	was	no	other	significant	net	income	during		
2011	(2010:	£2.5	million	gain	r elating	pr edominantly	to	the		
UK	pension	scheme	curtailment).
Finance	income	included	in	Significant	items	is	£nil	(2010:		
£0.1	million	gain	due	to	curr ency	movements	on	loans	not	
accounted	for	as	net	investment	hedges).
Ther e	was	a	tax	cr edit	of	£2.0	million	on	these	Significant	items		
(2010:	£5.4	million).
Acquisitions
W e	made	two	acquisitions	during	the	year .	In	Mar ch	2011,		
we	acquir ed	Lastolite	in	the	UK	for	an	initial	consideration		
of	£8.8	million.	It	pr oduces	highly	innovative	pr oducts	for	amateur	
and	pr ofessional	photographers	and	also	owns	the	Colorama	
brand	of	paper	backgr ounds.	This	business	has	been	successfully	
integrated	into	the	Imaging	&	Staging	Division	and	is	performing		
in	line	with	pr e-acquisition	expectations.	During	December	2011,		
we	also	completed	the	acquisition	of	Haigh-Farr	for	an	initial	cash	
consideration	of	$31.0	million	(£20.0	million).	Haigh-Farr	is	a	world	
leader	in	the	design,	development	and	manufactur e	of	flight-body	
antennae	 for	 simple	 and	 sophisticated	 communication	 applications	 	
and	r epr esents	an	excellent	complement	to	our	curr ent	MAG		
focussed	activities.	
Free cash flow
	 Year ended		 Y ear	ended	
	 2011		 2010	
	 £m		 £m
Cash generated from operating activities 39.9 34.6
Pur chase	of	pr operty ,	plant	and	equipment	 (13.7)	 (13.8)
Capitalisation	of	intangible	assets
+
	 (2.4)	 (2.7)
Pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 sale 	 of 	 pr operty , 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 6.4	 2.0	
Net	inter est	paid	 (1.8)	 (1.2)
T ax	paid	 (11.1)	 (0.9)
Free cash flow 17.3 18.0
	
Cash flow and net debt 
Cash	generated	fr om	operating	activities	was	£39.9	million		
(2010:	£34.6	million).	The	positive	cash	generation	this	year	is	
despite	the	investment	made	in	inventory	and	r eceivables	in	the	
last	quarter	as	a	r esult	of	higher	r evenue	and	inventory	build-up	to	
fulfil	new	pr oduct	or ders.	W orking	capital	management	r emains		
a	key	focus	within	the	Gr oup.
W e	use	the	per centage	of	working	capital	to	sales,	inventory	days,	
r eceivable	days	and	payable	days	as	key	performance	indicators	
of	our	contr ol	over	working	capital.	For	2011	the	ratios	pr esented	
exclude	Haigh-Farr	as	it	was	acquir ed	in	the	last	month	of	the	
year .	The	working	capital	to	sales	metric,	which	now	excludes	
pr ovisions	and	derivative	instruments,	has	r emained	steady	at	
15.9%	(31	December	2010:	15.8%).
Inventory	r ose	£11.0	million	to	£66.4	million	at	the	year -end,	
r eflecting	higher	activity	and	holding	levels	and	£2.8	million		
fr om	acquir ed	businesses.	Inventory	days	incr eased	to	109		
(2010:	104	days).	T rade	r eceivables	incr eased	to	£38.7	million	
(2010:	£34.9	million),	including	£1.7	million	fr om	acquisitions,		
and	trade	r eceivable	days	impr oved	to	38	(2010:	39	days).		
T rade	payable	days	also	impr oved	to	49	(2010:	44	days).	
Inventory ,	trade	r eceivable	and	trade	payable	days	ar e	stated		
at	year -end	balances;	inventory	and	trade	payable	days	ar e		
based	on	Q4	cost	of	sales	(excluding	exchange	gains/losses)		
while	trade	r eceivable	days	ar e	based	on	Q4	r evenue.
Capital	expenditur e,	including	capitalised	softwar e	and	
development	costs,	totalled	£16.1	million	(2010:	£16.5	million),		
of	which	£6.4	million	(2010:	£3.8	million)	r elated	to	r ental	assets,	
partly	financed	by	the	pr oceeds	fr om	r ental	asset	disposals	of		
£2.9	million	(2010:	£1.4	million).	Overall	capital	expenditur e		
was	equivalent	to	1.1	times	depr eciation	(2010:	1.1	times).
Net debt
	 Year ended		 Y ear	ended	
	 2011		 2010	
	 £m		 £m
Free cash flow 17.3 18.0
Acquisitions	and	disposals
++
	 (28.7)	 4.6
Net	cash	used	in	financing	activities	 10.9	 (27.4)
Decr ease	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents	 (0.5)	 (4.8)
(Pr oceeds	fr om)/r epayment	of	bank	loans	 (21.6)	 19.0	
Net	cash	(outflow)/inflow	 (22.1)	 14.2
Ef fect	of	exchange	rate	fluctuations	on	net	debt	 (0.2)	 (1.7)
Net	debt	at	1	January (28.1) (40.6)
Net debt at 31 December (50.4) (28.1)
Financial	Review
+
	 Relates	to	capitalised	softwar e	and	development	costs.
++
	 Includes 	 acquisitions 	 of 	 businesses, 	 net 	 of 	 cash 	 acquir ed; 	 contingent 	 consideration 	 on 	 acquisition 	 of 	 subsidiaries 	 and 	 pr oceeds 	 fr om 	 disposal 	 of 	 businesses. The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										17
Currency hedging
  
	 December		 	2011	 December	 2010	
	 2011	 Average	rate	 2010	 A verage	rate
US Dollars sold for Euros    
Forwar d	contracts	 $30.9m	 1.38	 $33.7m	 1.37
US Dollars sold for Sterling    
Forwar d	contracts	 $11.4m	 1.58	 $8.1m	 1.54
Net	asset	investment	hedge	 -	 -	 $12.5m	 1.55
Net	tax	paid	in	2011	of	£11.1	million	was	
significantly	higher	than	2010	(£0.9	million),	
mainly	due	to	tax	r efunds	r elating	to	
Germany	and	the	US	that	wer e	r eceived		
in	2010	and	higher	payments	in	Italy	and	
the	UK	in	2011.
Fr ee	cash	flow	at	£17.3	million	(2010:	
£18.0	million)	r eflects	the	investment	in	
working	capital	and	incr eased	inter est		
and	tax	payments.
£28.7	million	was	spent	on	acquisitions	
during	the	year .	Dividends	paid	to	
shar eholders	totalled	£8.2	million	(2010:	
£7.9	million)	and	ther e	was	a	net	cash	
outflow 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 shar es 	 pur chased 	 and 	
issued	of	£2.5	million	(2010:	£0.5	million).	
The	net	cash	outflow	for	the	Gr oup	was	
£22.1	million	(2010:	£14.2	million	inflow)	
which,	after	£0.2	million	adverse	exchange	
(2010:	£1.7	million)	incr eased	the	net	debt	
to	£50.4	million	(2010:	£28.1	million).
Treasury
W e	manage	our	financing,	hedging	and	tax	
planning	activities	centrally	to	ensur e	that	
the	Gr oup	has	an	appr opriate	structur e	to	
support	our	geographically	diverse	
business.	W e	have	clearly	defined	policies	
and	pr ocedur es	with	any	substantial	
changes	to	the	financial	structur e	of	the	
Gr oup,	or	to	our	tr easury	practice,	r eferr ed	
to	 the	 Boar d	 for	 appr oval.	 W e	 operate	 strict	
contr ols	over	all	tr easury	transactions	
including	clearly	defined	curr ency	hedging	
pr ocesses	to	r educe	risks	fr om	volatility		
in	exchange	rates.	
As	in	pr evious	years,	a	portion	of	the	
transactions	of	subsidiaries	in	for eign	
curr encies	is	hedged,	with	the	US	Dollar	
contracts	as	at	31	December	2011	set		
out	below:	
W e	do	not	hedge	the	translation	of	our	
for eign	curr ency	pr ofits.	A	portion	of		
our	for eign	curr ency	net	assets	ar e	hedged	
using	normal	Gr oup	borr owings	and	in	
2010	forwar d	contracts	wer e	also	used.
Financing activities 
Our	principal	financing	facility		
is	a	five-year	£100	million	committed	
multicurr ency	r evolving	loan	agr eement	
involving	five	banks,	expiring	on	8	August	
2013.	At	the	end	of	December	2011		
£24.4	million	(2010:	£34.8	million)	of		
the	facility	was	utilised.
W e	expect	to	agr ee	a	new	r evolving	cr edit	
facility	by	the	end	of	2012.	Our	cost	of	
borr owing	under	this	facility	will	r eflect	the	
pr evailing	lending	rates	at	that	time,	an	
incr ease	fr om	the	favourable	rates	available	
when	the	expiring	facility	was	negotiated		
in	August	2008.
During	the	year ,	a	two	year	$75	million	
Private	Placement	shelf	facility	was	put	in	
place	of	which	$50	million	(£32.2	million)
was	drawn	down	in	two	tranches	of		
$25	million	each.	The	$50	million	drawn	
down	has	a	combined	fixed	inter est	rate		
of	4.77%	and	is	due	for	r epayment	on		
11	May	2017.
The	average	cost	of	borr owing	for	the		
year	was	2.3%	(2010:	1.3%).	Net	inter est	
cost	(consisting	of	net	inter est	payable		
and	commitment	fees)	was	£1.9	million	
(2010:	£1.2	million).	
The	Boar d	has	maintained	an	appr opriate	
capital	structur e	without	exposing	the	
Gr oup	to	unnecessary	levels	of	risk	and	it	
has	operated	comfortably	within	its	loan	
covenants	during	2011.	
Foreign Exchange
2011	operating	pr ofit*	benefitted	fr om	a	
£0.5	million	favourable	for eign	exchange	
ef fect.	The	average	£/$	and	Eur o/$	
exchange	rates	wer e	unfavourable	
compar ed	to	2010	but	this	was		
mor e	than	of fset	by	favourable	£/$		
and	Eur o/$	hedging	contracts,	which		
gave	rise	to	the	net	gain.
Dividend
The	Dir ectors	have	r ecommended		
a	final	dividend	of	12.5	pence	per		
shar e	amounting	to	£5.4	million		
(2010:	11.4	pence	per	shar e,	amounting		
to	£4.9	million).	The	dividend,	subject	to	
shar eholder	appr oval	at	the	Annual	General	
Meeting,	will	be	paid	on	11	May	2012	to	
shar eholders	on	the	r egister	at	the	close		
of	business	on	20	April	2012.	This	will		
bring	the	total	dividend	for	the	year	to		
20.5	pence	per	shar e	(up	7.9%).
Cutting clutter
In	April	2011	the	Financial	Reporting	
Council	(“FRC”)	published	a	discussion	
paper ,	“Cutting	Clutter”	which	pr ovides	
guidance	on	ways	in	which	companies	can	
r educe	complexity	in	their	annual	r eports	
and	 pr ovide	 mor e	 focus	 on	 key	 information.	
In	light	of	this	publication,	we	have	
incorporated	a	number	of	changes	into		
our	2011	Annual	Report	and	Accounts		
to	impr ove	its	pr esentation,	focus	on	key	
gover nance,	and	to	intr oduce	gr eater	
clarity	concer ning	the	key	accounting	
policies	and	their	application.
Paul Hayes	
Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector
*		 Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in	the	understanding		
of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011). 18										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Principal risks and uncertainties 
W e	ar e	exposed	to	a	number	of	risk	factors	which	may	af fect	our	performance.	W e	have	a	well-established	framework	for	r eviewing	
and	assessing	these	risks	on	a	r egular	basis,	and	have	put	in	place	appr opriate	pr ocesses	and	pr ocedur es	to	mitigate	against	them.	
However ,	no	system	of	contr ol	or	mitigation	can	eliminate	all	risks.	This	is	a	summary	of	some	of	the	principal	risks	facing	the	Gr oup:
Financial	Review
Specific Risk Mitigation
Demand for our products
Demand	for	our	pr oducts	may	be	adversely	af fected	by	many	factors,	
including	changes	in	customer	and	consumer	pr efer ences	and	our	ability	
to	deliver	appr opriate	pr oducts	or	to	support	changes	in	technology .	In	
addition,	demand	may	be	impacted	by	competitor	activity	and	demand	
in	our	target	markets	r eflecting	the	br oader	economic	envir onment.
W e	value	our	r elationships	with	our	customers	and	closely	monitor	
our	target	markets	and	user	r equir ements.	W e	make	appr opriate	
investments	in	pr oduct	development	and	marketing	activities	to		
ensur e	that	we	r emain	competitive	in	these	markets.	
Major contract awards
Our	operating	performance	and	cash	flow	may	be	dependent	on	the	
timing	of	major	contract	awar ds.	The	timing	of	the	awar d	of	these	
contracts	can	be	difficult	to	pr edict.	In	addition,	the	loss,	suspension		
or	cancellation	of	contracts	may	impact	trading	performance.
W e	attempt	to	gain	a	good	understanding	of	likely	demand	thr ough	
developing	close	r elationships	with	our	customers.	W e	also	have	a	
br oad	range	of	contracts	that	r educe	our	dependence	on	any	particular	
contract	or	customer .	W e	actively	r eview	our	or ders	and	trading	outlook	
and	manage	our	r esour ces	in	line	with	anticipated	activity .	
New markets and channels of distribution
As	we	enter	new	markets	and	channels	of	distribution	we	may	achieve	
lower	than	anticipated	trading	volumes	and	pricing	levels	or	higher	costs	
and	r esour ce	r equir ements.	This	may	impact	the	levels	of	pr ofitability	
and	cash-flows	deliver ed.	
W e	have	a	thor ough	pr ocess	for	assessing	and	planning	the	entry		
into	new	markets	and	r elated	opportunities.	W e	continuously	assess		
our	performance	in	these	markets	and	the	r elated	opportunities		
and	risks.	W e	adapt	our	appr oach	taking	into	account	our	actual		
and	anticipated	performance.
Acquisitions
W e	continuously	explor e	opportunities	to	enhance	our	business		
thr ough	development	activities	such	as	strategic	acquisitions.	This	
involves	a	number	of	calculated	risks	including:	acquiring	desir ed	
businesses	on	economically	acceptable	terms;	integrating	new	
businesses,	employees,	business	systems	and	technology;		
and	r ealising	satisfactory	post-acquisition	performance.
W e	mitigate	these	risks	by	having	a	clear	acquisition	strategy	with	
a	r obust	valuation	model.	Thor ough	due	diligence	pr ocesses	ar e	
completed	including	the	use	of	exter nal	advisers	wher e	appr opriate.	
Ther e	is	a	clear	focus	on	integrating	acquir ed	businesses	and	monitoring	
post-acquisition	performance.	
Pricing pressure
W e	might	experience	pricing	pr essur e	including	challenges	in	raising	
prices	or	not	r ecovering	incr eases	in	commodity	and	other	costs.
If	the	price	of	pr oducts	does	not	at	least	r ecover	movements	in	
commodity	costs	and	other	expenses	and	we	ar e	unable	to	r educe		
our	expenses,	our	r esults	could	be	adversely	af fected.
W e	ensur e	that	our	pr oduct	and	service	of fering	r emains	competitive	
by	investing	in	new	pr oduct	development	and	appr opriate	marketing	
and	pr oduct	support.	This	allows	us	to	support	price	incr eases	when	
r equir ed	by	working	closely	with	our	suppliers	and	managing	our	
expenses	and	cost	base	appr opriately . The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										19
Specific Risk Mitigation
Dependence on key suppliers
W e	sour ce	material	and	components	fr om	many	suppliers	in	various	
locations	and	in	some	instances	ar e	mor e	dependent	on	a	limited	
number	of	suppliers	for	particular	items.
W e	attempt	to	secur e	multiple	sour ces	of	supply	for	all	materials	and	
components	and	develop	str ong	r elationships	with	our	major	suppliers.	
W e	r eview	the	performance	of	strategically	important	suppliers	globally	
on	an	on-going	basis.
Employees
W e	employ	over	2,000	people	and	ar e	exposed	to	a	risk	of	being		
unable	to	r etain	or	r ecruit	suitable	talent	to	support	the	business.
W e	r ecognise	that	it	is	important	to	motivate	and	r etain	capable	
people	acr oss	our	businesses	to	ensur e	that	we	ar e	not	exposed	to	
risk	of	unplanned	staf f	tur nover .	W e	fairly	r ewar d	our	employees	and	
have	appr opriate	staf f	r ecruitment,	appraisal,	talent	management	and	
succession	planning	strategies	to	ensur e	we	r ecruit	and	r etain	good	
quality	people	acr oss	the	business.
Laws and regulations
W e	ar e	subject	to	a	compr ehensive	range	of	legal	obligations	in	all	
countries	in	which	we	operate.	As	a	r esult,	we	ar e	exposed	to	many	
forms	of	legal	risk.
W e	have	r esour ces	dedicated	to	legal	and	r egulatory	compliance	
supported	by	exter nal	advice	wher e	necessary .	W e	enhance	our	
contr ols,	pr ocesses	and	employee	knowledge	to	maintain	good	
gover nance	and	to	comply	with	new	laws	and	r egulations	such	as		
the	pr ovisions	of	the	UK	Bribery	Act	2010.	
Our reputation 
Damage	to	our	r eputation	and	our	brand	names	can	arise	fr om	a	range	
of	events	such	as	poor	pr oduct	performance,	unsatisfactory	customer	
service,	and	other	events	either	within	or	outside	our	contr ol.
W e	r ecognise	the	importance	of	our	r eputation	and	attempt	to	identify	any	
potential	 issues	 quickly	 and	 addr ess	 them	 appr opriately .	 W e	 r ecognise	 the	
importance	of	pr oviding	high	quality	pr oducts,	good	customer	service	and	
managing	our	business	in	a	safe	and	pr ofessional	manner .	This	r equir es	
all	employees	to	commit	to	and	comply	with	the	V itec	Code	of		
Business	Conduct.	
Exchange rates 
The	global	natur e	of	our	business	means	we	ar e	exposed	to	volatility	
in	curr ency	exchange	rates	in	r espect	of	for eign	curr ency	denominated	
transactions,	and	the	translation	of	net	assets	and	income	statements	of	
for eign	subsidiaries	and	equity	accounted	investments.
W e	r egularly	r eview	and	assess	our	exposur e	to	changes	in	exchange	
rates.	W e	r educe	the	impact	of	sudden	movements	in	exchange	
rates	with	the	use	of	appr opriate	hedging	activities	on	for ecast	for eign	
exchange	net	exposur es.	W e	do	not	hedge	the	translation	ef fect	of	
exchange	rate	movements	on	the	Income	Statement	or	Balance	Sheet		
of	overseas	subsidiaries. 20										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Our brands Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
Bags	
Petr ol
Equipment Rentals UK 
TCS
Lighting 
Litepanels
Microwave Systems	
Haigh-Farr	
IMT	
Micr owave 	 Services
Company	
Nucomm	
RF	Central
Mobile Power 
Anton/Bauer
Prompters		
Autoscript
Supports	
OConnor	
Sachtler	
V inten	
V inten	Radamec
9.3%
2011
£136.2m
2011
£12.7m
2011
V ideocom	Division
Our Videocom Division 
specialises in the supply of 
high-quality equipment principally 
for professionals engaged in 
producing video content for 
the media industries globally – 
broadcast, film and live events. 
This equipment is also supplied 
to corporate, educational and 
religious entities producing video 
content which we define as the 
“business and industry” segment. 
More recently our mission-
critical wireless communication 
and surveillance products have 
successfully entered the military, 
aerospace and government 
(MAG) markets. 
V ideocom’ s 	 r evenue 	 for 	 2011 	 was 	 £136.2	
million 	 (2010: 	 £121.6 	 million), 	 an 	 incr ease 	 of	
12.0% 	 or 	 18.4% 	 in 	 organic 	 constant 	 curr ency .	
This 	 is 	 after 	 adjusting 	 for 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of	
Haigh-Farr 	 that 	 was 	 acquir ed 	 only 	 a 	 few	
weeks 	 befor e 	 the 	 year -end 	 and 	 the 	 disposal 	 of	
Clear -Com 	 in 	 the 	 prior 	 year . 	 Operating 	 pr ofit* 	
r ose 	 51.2% 	 to 	 £12.7 	 million, 	 an 	 incr ease 	 of	
31.0% 	 in 	 organic 	 constant 	 curr ency 	 terms.
Sales	of	our	supports,	pr ompters	and		
bags	pr oducts	gr ew	str ongly .	This	included	
contracts	to	supply	television	studios	
notably	in	T urkmenistan,	Kazakhstan	and	
China.	In	addition,	we	r e c e i v e d 	 s i g n i fi c a n t	
or ders 	 for 	 the 	 Sachtler 	 Ace 	 range 	 of 	 supports	
that	was	launched	in	September	2011	
specifically	for	the	business	and	industry	
user . 	 These 	 pr oducts 	 have 	 patented 	 pan 	 and	
tilt 	 technology 	 and 	 was 	 launched 	 under 	 our	
market-leading 	 Sachtler 	 brand.
Our	Litepanels	LED	lighting	business	gr ew	
sales	by	appr oximately	20%	benefiting	
fr om	continued	adoption	of	LED	
technology	by	major	US,	Eur opean	and	
Asian	br oadcasters	in	both	studio	and	
news	gathering	applications.	LED	lighting	
can	meet	a	br oadcast	studio’ s	lighting	
r equir ements	with	the	benefits	of	lower	
power	consumption	and	less	heat	than	
traditional	lighting	technologies	generating	
a	compelling	investment	case.	W e 	 c o n t i n u e	
to 	 launch 	 new 	 pr oducts 	 including 	 updating	
our 	 range 	 of 	 LED 	 lights 	 targeted 	 at 	 the	
b u s i n e s s 	 and 	 industry 	 segment.
Anton/Bauer ,	our	mobile	power	business,	
gr ew	str ongly	in	2011.	Sales	of	batteries	
and	chargers	for	br oadcast	and	film	users	
wer e	helped	by	the	intr oduction	of	new	
“film-style”	cameras.	It	has	also	achieved	
initial	success	in	a	new	market	of	supplying	
batteries	and	chargers	to	power	carts	in	
hospitals.	These	carts	house	m e d i c a l	
devices 	 or 	 electr onic 	 equipment 	 and 	 a r e	
incr easingly 	 being 	 used 	 in 	 US 	 hospitals.	
IMT ,	our	micr owave	systems	business,		
has	achieved	sales	gr owth	in	the	MAG	
market	wher e	our	pr oducts	ar e	used		
by	law	enfor cement	agencies	and	the		
armed	for ces.	IMT	also	continued	to	win	
business	in	the	br oadcast	market	with	
noteworthy	success	in	the	US,	T urkey ,	
Russia	and	Brazil.	In	addition,	we	gr ew	
sales	significantly	in	the	sports	and	
entertainment	segment	in	the	US	wher e	
our	equipment	is	used	to	interview		
teams	and	their	fans.	
Divisional revenue
£136.2m	
Up
+18.4%**
6.9%
2010
£121.6m
2010
£8.4m
2010
*	 	 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011).
**	 	 At	constant	exchange	rates	excluding	year -on-year	ef fect	of	acquisition	and	disposal. The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										21
Key achievements
•	 Major	pr oject	wins	in	T urkmenistan,	Kazakhstan	and	China
•	 Str ong	sales	by	the	Anton/Bauer	mobile	power	business	to	br oadcast		
and	film	users
•	 Continued	str ong	gr owth	of	Litepanels’	LED	lighting	as	the	pr oduct	range		
is	further	developed
•	 Successful	launch	of	the	Sachtler	Ace	range	of	camera	supports
•	 V inten	Radamec	has	won	or ders	to	supply	studio	equipment	for	Sky	Sports’		
new	Sky	Deutschland	24	hour	channel,	with	associated	or ders	for	Autoscript		
and	Litepanels
•	 IMT	r eceived	its	first	or ders	fr om	the	US	Army	for	unmanned	applications
•	 Completion	of	the	Haigh-Farr	acquisition	in	December	2011
Case study 1 - Sachtler Ace	
Sachtler	identified	the	potential	opportunity	
to	pr oduce	a	camera	support	targeted	at	the	
independent	cameraman	who	wanted	an	
af for dable	yet	quality	pr oduct.	Sachtler	Ace		
was	the	r esult.	
Case study 2 - Turkmenistan	
The	r ecently	opened	T urkmenistan	TV	T ower ,	
one	of	the	largest	br oadcasting	facilities	in	
Central	Asia,	chose	to	install	V itec	V ideocom	
equipment	fr om	many	of	its	key	brands.	W e	
have	supplied	the	$450	million	700ft	TV	T ower	
with	over	100	V inten,	V inten	Radamec	and	
Sachtler	pr oducts	as	well	as	several	hundr ed	
Anton/Bauer	batteries	and	chargers	and	
Autoscript	pr ompting	equipment.
Case study 3 - Sky Deutschland	
When	Sky	Sports	decided	to	launch	a	24	hour	
sports	news	channel	in	Germany ,	it	tur ned	to	
V itec	for	its	studio	equipment.	This	equipment	
includes	a	V inten	Radamec	r obotic	camera	
system	and	r obotic	pedestals	and	Autoscript	
pr ompters.	In	addition,	Litepanels’	LED	lighting	
has	pr ovided	significant	r eductions	in		
energy	consumption.
Case study 4 - Unmanned systems	
IMT	has	expanded	the	applications	for	its	
equipment	to	encompass	unmanned	gr ound	
vehicles	(UGVs)	and	unmanned	aerial	systems	
(UASs).	In	2011,	it	r eceived	its	first	or ders	for		
a	UAS	pr ogramme	and	a	UGV	platform	for	the	
US	Army	which	is	expected	to	enter	pr oduction		
in	2012.
Case study 5 - Acquisition of Haigh-Farr	
As	part	of	our	strategy	to	supply	the	key	
elements	of	a	micr owave	system,	V itec	sought	
to	acquir e	an	antennae	company	and	thus	
acquir ed	Haigh-Farr	in	December	2011.		
Based	in	New	Hampshir e,	US,	Haigh-Farr	
supplies	conformal	antennae	to	a	blue-chip		
list	of	customers	mainly	in	the	US.
Case study 6 - CCTV China	
CCTV , 	 the 	 state 	 br oadcaster 	 in 	 China, 	 is 	 developing	
a 	 new 	 channel 	 which 	 will 	 bring 	 news 	 and 	 magazine	
pr ogramming 	 fr om 	 ar ound 	 the 	 country . 	 T o 	 support	
this 	 extensive 	 new 	 operation 	 it 	 has 	 invested 	 in	
tripods, 	 lighting 	 and 	 bags 	 fr om 	 Vitec 	 Videocom.	
A 	 wide 	 range 	 of 	 pr oducts 	 has 	 been 	 or der ed	
totalling 	 nearly 	 200 	 tripods, 	 pedestals 	 and 	 heads	
fr om 	 Sachtler 	 and 	 Vinten, 	 over 	 200 	 Litepanels’	
luminair es 	 and 	 350 	 Petr ol 	 bags.	
Case studies 22										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Imaging	&	Staging	Division
*	 	 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011).
**	 	 At	constant	exchange	rates	excluding	year -on-year	ef fect	of	acquisition.
***	 Manufactur ed	and	distributed	under	licence
Our Imaging & Staging Division 
provides premium photographic 
and videographic equipment 
to both professional and non-
professional users and staging 
systems for live events. The 
photographic and videographic 
equipment consists primarily 
of camera supports, tripods, 
equipment bags, lighting 
supports, LED lights and  
lighting accessories. The  
staging systems business 
supplies standard aluminium 
trusses and custom stage sets.
Revenue	for	2011	was	£183.2	million,		
an	incr ease	of	19.2%	or	16.9%	in	organic	
constant	curr ency	after	adjusting	for	the	
acquisition	of	Lastolite.	Operating	pr ofit*	
r ose	12.2%	to	£21.2	million	(an	incr ease	of	
11.2%	in	organic	constant	curr ency	terms).
Our	Supports	business	r eported	good	
gr owth	in	r evenue.	Our	camera	supports	
gr ew	in	the	pr ofessional	segment,	with	
str ong	sales	in	video	in	particular ,	and		
ther e	was	significant	success	with	
consumer	electr onic	stor es	for	our		
tripods,	designed	for	the	non-pr ofessional	
user ,	wher e	we	have	invested	in	the	
Manfr otto	Powerbrand	initiative.	Sales	of	
our	Powerbrand	pr oducts	wer e	ahead		
of	our	initial	expectations	and	pr ofits		
fr om	these	sales	have	br oadly	cover ed		
the	launch	costs	this	year .	Our	lighting	
supports	sales	gr ew	in	line	with	gr owth		
in	the	pr ofessional	imaging	markets.
Our	branded	Bags	business	gr ew	sales		
by	appr oximately	40%	with	a	multi-brand	
strategy	of	collections	designed	to	match	
the	needs	of	dif fer ent	customer	segments.	
Manfr otto	of fers	r obust	urban	bags;		
Kata	pr ovides	lightweight	pr otective		
bags	for	the	pr ofessional;	and	ther e		
is	a	range	targeted	at	the	outdoor	
adventur er ,	manufactur ed	and	distributed	
under	licence	fr om	National	Geographic.	
Our	Lighting	business	began	to	sell		
LED	lights	under	the	Manfr otto	name.	
These	impr ove	the	quality	of	an	SLR	
camera’ s	high	definition	video	and	pr ovide	
warm	“fill-in”	lighting	in	photographs.		
W e	believe	ther e	is	a	significant	opportunity	
to	use	LEDs	in	place	of	traditional	lighting	
technologies.	Our	lighting	contr ols	that	
include	umbr ellas	and	r eflectors	ar e		
mainly	sold	under	the	Lastolite	brand		
which	was	acquir ed	in	Mar ch	2011.		
The	acquisition	contributed	£5.7	million		
to	our	exter nal	r evenue	which	was	in	line	
with	our	pr e-acquisition	plans.	
Our	Staging	business	gr ew	sales	in	the	
year .	Brilliant	Stages	supplied	custom	
stages	and	engineer ed	solutions	for		
major	tours	including	a	large	pr oject	for	
“T ake	That”	in	2011.	Litec	and	T omcat,		
our	brands	that	supply	aluminium		
trusses	for	live	events,	also	experienced		
incr eased	business.
Our brands Revenue
Operating profit*
Operating margin*
Supports 
A venger		
Gitzo	
Manfr otto
Bags 
Kata	
Manfr otto	
National	Geographic***
Staging 
Brilliant	Stages	
Litec	
T omcat	
Lighting 
Colorama	
Lastolite	
Manfr otto
11.6%
2011
£183.2m
2011
£21.2m
2011
Divisional revenue
£183.2m	
Up
+16.9%**
12.3%
2010
£153.7m
2010
£18.9m
2010 The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										23
Case study 1 - Major accounts won	
Part 	 of 	 our 	 strategy 	 is 	 to 	 penetrate 	 the 	 newer	
distribution 	 channels 	 such 	 as 	 consumer	
electr onic 	 stor es 	 and 	 online. 	 Manfr otto 	 achieved	
considerable 	 success 	 in 	 getting 	 its 	 pr oducts 	 into	
consumer 	 electr onic 	 stor es. 	 Examples 	 include	
Best 	 Buy 	 and 	 T arget 	 in 	 the 	 US, 	 Dixons 	 and	
Jessops 	 in 	 the 	 UK, 	 Y odobashi 	 and 	 Y amada 	 in	
Japan 	 and 	 Mediamarkt 	 and 	 FNAC 	 on	 	
Continental 	 Eur ope.
Case study 2 - red dot and iF awards  
W e	won	seven	r ed	dot	design	awar ds	in	2011	
including	four	for	our	supports,	two	for	our	
bags	and	one	for	our	LED	lights.	These	awar ds	
r ecognise	the	leading	design	and	innovation	
in	our	pr oducts.	W e	also	won	6	iF	(industry	
Forum)	awar ds.	Amongst	the	winning	pr oducts,	
Manfr otto	bags	have	enjoyed	unpr ecedented	
success	in	their	market	shar e	acr oss	the	globe.
Case study 3 - Lastolite acquisition	
W ith	a	leading	position	in	lighting	accessories	
such	as	umbr ellas	and	r eflectors,	Lastolite	
was	well-known	to	us	as	its	pr oducts	wer e	
distributed	by	Manfr otto.	As	part	of	the	strategy	
to	expand	the	range	of	pr oducts	supplied,	we	
acquir ed	Lastolite	in	Mar ch	2011.	It	has	been	
integrated	accor ding	to	our	plan	and	will	be	
expanding	its	existing	site	in	2012.	The	business	
was	r e-named	Manfr otto	Lighting	in	January	
2012	but	will	continue	to	trade	under	the	
Lastolite	brand.
Case study 4 - Compact 
Specifically	designed	for	social	r ecor ders,		
the	Compact	is	ideal	to	support	mirr orless	
cameras	for	still	and	video	applications.	In	2011	
the	Compact	was	the	most	sold	tripod	in	the	
consumer	category	(GfK/NPD	data).
Case study 5 - Staging more success	
Brilliant	Stages	has	a	worldwide	r eputation	for	
building	complex	and	custom	stage	sets	for	
leading	events	such	as	major	band	tours.		
They	wer e	selected	to	design	and	build	a		
20	metr e	fully	operational	r obotic	man	for		
the	‘T ake	That’	Pr ogr ess	Live	2011	T our .
Case study 6 - Vitec installs iconic shops  
in shops 	
In	parallel	to	expanding	distribution	in	moder n	
distribution 	 channels, 	 Vitec 	 has 	 partner ed 	 up 	 with	
the	best	independent	specialist	stor es	worldwide	
installing	shops	in	shops	in	tr end	setting	cities	
like	New 	 Y ork, 	 T okyo, 	 Berlin, 	 London, 	 Paris,	
S h a n g h a i	and	mor e,	to	deliver	a	full	branded	
experience	to	all	customer	segments.	
Key achievements
•	 Powerbrand	sales	wer e	ahead	of	our	initial	expectations
•	 Success	in	penetrating	new	consumer	electr onic	stor es	in	the	US,		
Eur ope	and	Far	East
•	 Acquisition	and	successful	integration	of	Lastolite	with	its	leading	position		
in	lighting	accessories	including	umbr ellas	and	r eflectors
•	 Collaboration	between	Manfr otto	and	Litepanels	to	develop	a	new	range		
of	LED	lights	aimed	at	the	photographic	market
•	 Seven	“r ed	dot”	awar ds	won	in	the	year	which	r ecognise	the	leading		
design	and	innovation	of	our	pr oducts
Case studies 24										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Services	Division
*	At	constant	exchange	rates.
Our Services Division provides 
the highest quality broadcast 
equipment and engineering 
support for the most demanding 
broadcast and media productions. 
Its capabilities with broadcast, 
fibre optics, wireless audio and 
other technologies make it  
a complete one-stop solution  
for top producers globally, and 
provides insight into technological 
developments for the Group.
Revenue	for	2011	was	£31.6	million,	
a	decr ease	of	7.9%	but	an	underlying	
constant	curr ency	incr ease	of	12.5%	after	
adjusting	by	£5.4	million	for	the	W inter	
Olympics	in	2010.	Operating	pr ofit	r ose	by	
£0.2	million	to	£0.6	million.	This	included	
higher 	 asset 	 sales 	 including 	 one-of f 	 r evenue	
and	pr ofits	fr om	the	sale	of	a	large	system	
to	a	major	customer .
Our	strategy	is	incr easingly	to	focus	on	
large	events	and	solutions-based	of ferings	
so	that	pr oducers	can	be	assur ed	that	
their	mission-critical	pr ogrammes,	such	as	
major	sporting	and	entertainment	events,	
will	be	br oadcast	flawlessly .	During	2011,	
we	established	a	national	sales	team	in	the	
US	to	focus	on	key	accounts	as	part	of	
a	r e-organisation	of	the	Division.	This	will	
allow	us	to	consolidate	our	key	r esour ces	
to	better	serve	our	gr owing	cor e	of	US	and	
inter national	clients.	The	r e-organisation	
r esulted	 in	 the	 closur e	 of	 the	 Seattle	 branch	
office	and	the	consolidation	of	engineering	
and	logistics	r esour ces.	
Case study 1 - Sports production
Bexel 	 saw 	 wide 	 adoption 	 of 	 their 	 large-event	
strategy 	 fr om 	 major 	 rights 	 holders 	 in 	 2011. 	 During	
the 	 year , 	 the 	 company 	 was 	 called 	 upon 	 to 	 pr ovide	
significant 	 facilities 	 at 	 global 	 events 	 fr om 	 Super 	
Bowl 	 to 	 The 	 Oscars 	 to 	 the 	 Pan 	 American 	 Games.	
In 	 addition, 	 the 	 company 	 was 	 awar ded 	 a 	 multi-
year 	 contract 	 for 	 facilities 	 and 	 services 	 for 	 the	 	
US 	 Open 	 tennis.
Case study 2 - ESPN Longhorn Network
Evidencing	the	confidence	br oadcasters	have	in	
our	one-stop	solution	and	service	of fering,	Bexel	
was	called	on	to	cr eate	a	complete	network	
pr oduction	and	contr ol	r oom	envir onment	for	the	
new	ESPN	Longhor n	Network	based	in	Austin,	
T exas.	The	customer	was	so	pleased	with	the	
quality	of	the	engineering	and	system	design	
that	a	six	month	r ental	converted	to	an	outright	
pur chase	after	four	months	of	use.
Our services Revenue
Operating profit
Operating margin
Major	event	pr oduction	
systems	design	and	
deployment	services
Pr oduction	equipment	
	 r entals
Fibr e	optic	br oadcast	and	
infrastructur e	solutions	
design	and	deployment
Sales	and	support	of	
pr ofessional	audio	and	
video	pr oducts
Used	pr oduction	
	 equipment	sales
1.9%
2011
£31.6m
2011
£0.6m
2011
Divisional revenue
£31.6m	
Down
(5.7)%*
1.2%
2010
£34.3m
2010
£0.4m
2010
Key achievements
Case studies
•	 Str engthened	our	r elationship	with		
ESPN,	the	US’ s	largest	sports	network	
by	securing	multi-year	agr eements	for		
the	US	Open	tennis	and	US	college	
football	events
•	 Continued	to	rationalise	our		
distribution	structur e The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										25 						25
The	V itec	Gr oup	Operations	Executive
The	Operations	Executive	is	r esponsible	for	leading	the	organisation.	T ogether	the	team	develops	
strategy ,	implements	our	plans	and	ensur es	we	run	the	business	ef fectively .	W e	meet	monthly	to	
discuss	the	business	and	drive	collaboration.	The	str ength	of	this	team	derives	fr om	a	diverse	
range	of	personal	and	functional	skills	and	experience.
Marco Pezzana
Imaging		
Divisional	Chief	Executive	
“	 W e	ar e	focussed	on	
gr owing	fr om	a	leading	
manufactur er	of	superior	
imaging	accessories	into		
a	world	class	organisation,	
capable	of	exceeding		
both	pr ofessionals’	and	
consumers’	expectations		
in	a	fast	changing	market	
wher e	digital	images		
have	become	the	new		
global	language.”
Francesco Bernardi
Gr oup	Special	Pr ojects	
Dir ector
“	 The	way	we	do	business	
can	have	an	influence		
on	the	community	and		
the	envir onment,	and		
we	encourage	all	our	
employees	to	play	a		
r ole	in	ensuring	that		
we	operate	r esponsibly .”
Joop Janssen
V ideocom		
Divisional	Chief	Executive
“	 Gr owth	in	video	cr eation,	
incr easing	media	
channels,	shortening	
camera	r eplacement	
cycles,	the	desir e	for	
energy	efficient	LED	
lighting	and	camera	
r obotics	underpins	exciting	
opportunities	for	V itec.”
Steve Shpock
IMT	Pr esident
	
“	 Our	micr owave	video	
technology	has	evolved	
into	an	invaluable	lifesaving	
tool.	Fr om	gr ound	r obots		
to	police	helicopter	
downlinks	–	we	continue	
to	see	incr easing	
worldwide	demand		
for	our	pr oducts.”
Jerry Gepner
Services	&	Staging	
Divisional	Chief	Executive
“	 W e	have	emerged	as	a	
significant	player	in	the	
new	global	major	events	
market.	Our	strategy	of	
focusing	 on	 pr emier	 events	
and	complete	solutions	
has	 found	 r eal	 traction	 with	
several	large	customers.”
Stephen Bird
Gr oup	Chief	Executive	
	
“	 W e	continue	to	benefit	
fr om	our	focus	on	thr ee	
markets,	that	ar e	gr owing	
and	in	which	we	believe	
we	can	take	shar e.”
Paul Hayes
Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector	
	
“	 W e	have	a	clear	focus		
on	delivering	sustainable	
pr ofit	gr owth	and	tightly	
managing	V itec’ s	
working	capital.”
Martin Green
Gr oup	Business	
Development	Dir ector	
“	 W e	keep	the	Gr oup’ s	
portfolio	under	continuous	
r eview ,	looking	for	
acquisitions	and	other	
business	development	
opportunities	to	enhance	
shar eholder	value.”
Jon Bolton
Gr oup	Company	Secr etary	
	
“	 Our	Code	of	Business	
Conduct	enables	V itec	
employees	in	all	locations	
to	have	a	common	set	of	
values	that	underpin	our	
business	and	services.”
Cathy Walkington
Gr oup	HR	Dir ector	
	
“	 Our	employees	ar e	key	to	
V itec’ s	ambitious	gr owth	
plans.	Thr ough	our	
Organisation	and	T alent	
Review	we	aim	to	identify	
and	develop	our	futur e	
business	leaders.” 26										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Boar d	of	Dir ectors
Michael Harper		
BSc	Eng,	MSc
Chairman,	Non-Executive,	British,	
aged	67,	appointed	to	the	Boar d	
on	14	June	2004,	became	
Chairman	on	1	November	2004;	
and	Chairman	of	the	Nominations	
Committee.	Curr ently	Chairman	
of	BBA	A viation	plc	and	Ricar do	
plc	and	a	Non-Executive	Dir ector	
of	QinetiQ	Gr oup	plc.	He	was	
formerly	Chief	Executive	of	Kidde	
plc,	having	pr eviously	held	senior	
r oles	at	both	W illiams	plc	and	
V ickers	plc.
Stephen Bird		
MA
Gr oup	Chief	Executive,	British,	
aged	51,	appointed	to	the	Boar d	
on	14	April	2009.	He	is	a	non-
executive	dir ector	of	Umeco	
plc.	Pr eviously	he	was	Divisional	
Managing	Dir ector	of	W eir	Oil	&	
Gas,	part	of	W eir	Gr oup	plc.		
Prior	to	this	he	has	worked	
in	senior	r oles	at	Danaher	
Corporation,	Black	&	Decker ,	
Unipart	Gr oup,	Hepworth	PLC		
and	T echnicolor	Gr oup.
Paul Hayes		
M.Eng	&	Man,	ACA
Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector ,	British,	
aged	45,	appointed	to	the	Boar d	
on	13	June	2011.	Pr eviously	he	
was	Gr oup	Financial	Contr oller	at	
Signet	Jewelers	Limited.	Prior	to	
that,	he	held	senior	r oles	at	RHM	
plc	and	Smiths	Gr oup	plc.	He	is	
a	Charter ed	accountant	having	
qualified	with	Er nst	&	Y oung,	
and	has	a	Masters	degr ee	in	
Mechanical	Engineering.
Carolyn Fairbairn	
BA,	MA	and	MBA	
Non-Executive,	independent,	
British,	aged	51,	appointed	to		
the	Boar d	on	1	February	2012;	
member	of	the	Audit,	Nominations	
and	Remuneration 	 Committees.	
She	was	a	non-executive	dir ector	
of	the	Financial	Services	Authority	
between	2007	and	2011.	Until	
April	2011,	she	was	Dir ector	of	
Gr oup	Development	and	Strategy	
at	ITV	plc,	having	also	spent	five	
years	as	Dir ector	of	Strategy	at		
the	BBC	and	a	member	of	its	
Executive	Boar d.	She	has	also	
been	a	partner	at	McKinsey ,	wher e	
she	specialised	in	media,	and	a	
policy	adviser	in	the	Number	10	
Policy	Unit.	Pr evious	non-executive	
r oles	include	chair	of	Friends	
Reunited,	chair	of	the	Royal	
T elevision	Society ,	and	dir ector		
of	Digital	UK	and	Fr eeview . The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										27
Simon Beresford-Wylie		
BA
Non-Executive, 	 independent,	
British,	aged	53,	appointed	to	the	
Boar d	on	1	Mar ch	2006;	member	
of	the	Audit	Committee	and	the	
Nominations	Committee	and	
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	
Committee.	Appointed	Chief	
Executive	Officer	of	Elster	Gr oup	
SE	in	2009.	Pr eviously	Chief	
Executive	Officer	of	Nokia	Siemens	
Networks	and	member	of	the	
Nokia	Gr oup	Executive	Boar d	
having	joined	the	Nokia	Gr oup	in	
1998	fr om	Indian	mobile	operator	
Modi	T elstra	(Pte.	Ltd.),	wher e		
he	was	Chief	Executive	Officer .		
Prior	to	that	he	held	various	
management	positions	within	
T elstra’ s	Corporate	and	
Gover nment	Business	Unit.
Maria Richter		
BA,	JD
Non-Executive,	independent,		
dual	American	and	Panamanian,	
aged	57,	appointed	to	the	Boar d		
on	28	February	2007;	member		
of	the	Audit	Committee,	the	
Nominations	Committee	and	the	
Remuneration	Committee.	She		
is	curr ently	a	dir ector	of	National	
Grid	plc,	The	Pantry	Inc	and	The	
Bessemer	Gr oup	Incorporated.	
She	is	a	dir ector	of	Pr o	Mujer	
Inter national	and	Chairman	of	the	
Boar d	of	T rustees	of	Pr o	Mujer	UK.	
Pr eviously	with	Morgan	Stanley		
for	nine	years,	most	r ecently	as	
Managing	Dir ector	of	the	
Corporate	Finance	Retail	Gr oup.	
Prior	to	that	she	held	senior	
positions	with	Salomon	Br others,	
Prudential	Capital	Corporation		
and	Power	Funding	Associates.
Nigel Moore		
FCA
Non-Executive,	independent,	
British,	aged 	67,	appointed	to	the	
Boar d	on	1	Mar ch	2004;	Chairman	
of	the	Audit	Committee,	member	
of	the	Nominations	Committee	and	
of	the	Remuneration	Committee;	
Senior	Independent	Dir ector .	He	is	
curr ently	Chairman	of	The	TEG	
Gr oup	plc,	a	dir ector	of	Hochschild	
Mining	plc,	JKX	Oil	&	Gas	plc	and	
Ascent	Resour ces	plc.	Formerly	a	
London	based	partner	of	Er nst	&	
Y oung,	wher e	he	was	client	service	
partner	for	London	Inter national	
PLC	and	the	UK	operations	of	
Coca	Cola.
John	Hughes	
CBE,	BSc	
Non-Executive,	independent,	
British,	aged	60,	appointed	to	the	
Boar d	on	11	Mar ch	2011;	member	
of	the	Audit	Committee,	the	
Nominations	Committee	and	the	
Remuneration	Committee.	He	is	
curr ently	Chairman	of	Spectris	plc,	
T elecity	Gr oup	plc	and	Sepura	plc.	
He	is	also	a	dir ector	of	CSG	
Systems	Inter national,	Inc	and		
Just	East	Gr oup	Holdings	Limited.	
He	was	pr eviously	executive	
vice-pr esident	and	chief	operating	
officer	of	Thales	SA,	the	defence,	
aer ospace	and	electr onic		
systems	gr oup.	He	also	serves		
as	an	ambassador	to	the		
Alzheimer’ s	Society . 28          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Directors’ shareholdings
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, 
Executive Directors are required to build up, over a reasonable 
period of time, a substantial holding of shares in the Company 
of at least one times salary. Other members of the Operations 
Executive are encouraged to do the same. The value of holdings 
by the Executive Directors at 31 December 2011 represented 
143% and 51% of the base salaries of Stephen Bird and Paul 
Hayes respectively, calculated by reference to the closing middle 
market price of a share of the Company on 30 December 2011, 
the last dealing day of 2011, which was 555.75 pence.
The table below sets out the beneficial interests in the Company’s 
shares of those persons who were Directors at the end of the 
financial year. The interests are shown as at 31 December 2011 
and 1 January 2011. Details of the Directors’ other interests in the 
Company’s shares are set out in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 31 to 41. On her appointment to the Board on 1 February 
2012, Carolyn Fairbairn did not hold any shares in the Company. 
There have been no other changes to these interests in the period 
from 31 December 2011 to 29 February 2012.
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance  
and Indemnification of Directors 
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its Directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each 
of its Directors to the extent permitted by law. Qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 324 of the Companies 
Act 2006) were adopted on 16 March 2009 for those Directors 
on the Board at that time and have been agreed by all Directors 
joining the Board since that date. These indemnities remain in 
force in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors 
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors  
of the Company.
Principal Activity and Business Review
The principal activity of the Group is to provide vital products and 
services that support the capture of exceptional images. We serve 
customers in the broadcast, photographic and military, aerospace 
and government (MAG) markets. Vitec is based on strong, well 
known premium brands on which its customers worldwide rely 
and is organised in three divisions: Videocom, Imaging & Staging 
and Services. Videocom designs and distributes systems and 
products used in broadcasting and live entertainment, film 
and video production and MAG. Imaging & Staging designs, 
manufactures and distributes equipment and accessories for 
photography, video and events. Services provides equipment 
rental, workflow design and technical support for camera, video, 
audio, fibre optic and wireless technology used by TV production 
teams and film crews.
Details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance 
for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future 
development, together with performance information which fulfils 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the 
production of a business review are set out on pages 1 to 24 and 
in the section entitled “Principal risks and uncertainties” on pages 
18 and 19. The Company uses a number of key performance 
indicators to measure progress towards its objectives which can 
be found on pages 15, 38, 45 and 46.
Directors
The Directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 and 
up to the date of this report are set out on pages 26 to 27 along 
with photographs and their biographies. 
Changes to the Board during the year and up to the date of this 
report were as follows:
All current Directors will be standing for re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The remuneration of the 
Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 41.
Directors’ Report
Name Date Position
John Hughes Appointed on  
11 March 2011
Independent Non-
Executive Director
Paul Hayes Appointed on  
13 June 2011
Group Finance Director
Carolyn Fairbairn Appointed on  
1 February 2012
Independent Non-
Executive Director
Richard Cotton Resigned on  
4 February 2011
Group Finance Director
Will Wyatt Retired on 
19 May 2011
Independent Non-
Executive Director
(*)  Includes 54,875 shares and 26,185 shares (at 31 December 2011 and 1 January 
2011 respectively) purchased in the market using funds supplied by Stephen Bird 
and held by the Employee Benefit Trust, the trust used to hold shares in respect 
of awards made under the Vitec Group 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan.
Directors’ shareholdings
31 December 2011 1 January 2011 
(or date or appointment,  
if later)
Chairman
Michael Harper 35,000 35,000
Executive Directors
Stephen Bird 95,323(*) 56,185(*)
Paul Hayes  
(appointed 13 June 2011)
24,000 14,000
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Beresford-Wylie 4,215 4,143
John Hughes
(appointed 11 March 2011)
- -
Nigel Moore 18,470 15,470
Maria Richter 4,000 4,000
181,008 128,798 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          29
Share capital 
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in Note 4.3 to 
the consolidated financial statements. An analysis of shareholdings 
is shown on page 111. The closing middle market price of a share 
of the Company on 30 December 2011, together with the range 
during the year, is also shown on page 111. For details of own 
shares held by the Company see Note 4.3 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 29 February 2012, the Company had been advised under  
the Disclosure and Transparency Regime, or had ascertained  
from its own analysis, that the following held interests of 3% or 
more of the voting rights of its issued share capital:
   
 Number of 
 voting rights %
Delta Lloyd  5,686,561 13.15
Manfrotto 4,789,102 11.07
Harris Associates 4,373,256 10.11
Standard Life Investments 4,128,179 9.54
Schroder Investment Management 2,697,582 6.24
Cazenove Capital Management  2,179,696 5.04
M&G Investment Management 1,690,168 3.91
Legal & General  1,539,394 3.56
SFM UK Management 1,329,300 3.07
Committees of the Board
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations 
Committee and a Remuneration Committee. Details of those 
Committees, including membership, outline terms of reference and 
their activities in 2011, are contained in the Corporate Governance 
section of this Annual Report and in the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Report
The Group’s Remuneration Report is set out on pages 31 to 41. 
Corporate Responsibility 
The Group’s report on corporate responsibility is set out on  
pages 42 to 49. The Group has policies in respect of the  
following key areas: health and safety; risk and fraud; employment; 
whistleblowing; the environment; human rights; community  
impact and involvement; and relationships with suppliers and 
customers and other stakeholders. It regularly reviews these 
policies and revises them as and when necessary. 
Corporate Governance
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages  
50 to 57.
Donations
During 2011, the Group made charitable and community-based 
donations totalling £152,143 (2010: £44,030), of which £17,004 
were made in the UK. No donations were made to any political 
party. For further information on donations refer to the section on 
Community and Charitable Donations set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility report on pages 48 and 49.
Payments to creditors
It continues to be the Group’s policy that the Company and 
individual subsidiary companies are responsible for negotiating 
terms and conditions under which suppliers operate. Once agreed, 
payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms 
and conditions, subject always to the supplier having complied with 
them. That policy will continue for the year ending 31 December 
2012. For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group paid its 
creditors on average within 49 days (2010: 44 days). 
Companies Act 2006 Disclosures
In accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 the 
Directors disclose the following information:
•  The Company’s capital structure and voting rights are 
summarised on page 92, and there are no restrictions  
on voting rights nor any agreement between holders of  
securities that result in restrictions on the transfer of securities  
or on voting rights;
•  There exist no securities carrying special rights with regard to  
the control of the Company;
•  Details of the substantial shareholders and their shareholdings  
in the Company are listed opposite;
•  Shares awarded under the Core Award of the Company’s 
Deferred Bonus Plan are held in a nominee capacity by the 
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT). The Trustees of the EBT do not 
seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the EBT. No 
voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to 
individual beneficiaries;
•  The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of 
Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers 
to issue or buy back the Company’s shares are contained in  
the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies 
Act 2006;
•  There exist no agreements to which the Company is party  
that may affect its control following a takeover bid; and
•  There exist no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors providing for compensation for loss of office that  
may occur because of a takeover bid.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect of  
the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 30          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the  
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors  
are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•  For the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  For the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in  
the parent company financial statements; and
•  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy,  
at any time, the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement  
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information (as defined in Section 418(2) 
of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting for 2012 will be held at 2.30pm on 
Tuesday, 8 May 2012 at the offices of FTI Consulting, Holborn 
Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees will be 
in attendance at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions 
from shareholders. All Directors will be standing for re-election at 
the Annual General Meeting.
The Company will be making use of the electronic voting facility 
provided by its registrars, Capita Registrars. The facility includes 
CREST voting for members holding their shares in uncertificated 
form. For further information, please refer to the section on Online 
services and electronic voting set out on page 111.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and an explanation of 
the resolutions to be put to the meeting are set out in the Notice 
of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report. The Board fully 
supports all the resolutions and encourages shareholders to vote  
in favour of each of them.
Auditors
The Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office. 
Separate resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting  
to re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Board to agree  
their remuneration.
By order of the Board 
 
Jon Bolton 
Group Company Secretary
29 February 2012
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Directors’ Report  
(pages 1 to 30) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk 
factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in  
which the Group operates. It is believed that the expectations reflected in  
these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range  
of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated. Nothing in these Annual Report and Accounts should  
be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors' Report (continued) The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          31
Remuneration Report 
* Before Significant items
Dear Shareholder 
This Remuneration Report sets out our approach to the remuneration of the Executive  
Directors and senior executives. Our objective is to ensure that it is aligned with shareholder 
interests to deliver long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value. The Remuneration 
Committee, chaired by myself, reviews the remuneration packages to ensure that they  
remain fit for purpose, taking into account market dynamics, the need to attract and retain 
talented management to deliver on the Group’s ambitious growth strategy, remuneration  
paid to the Company’s workforce, and market data. The Committee takes advice from its 
advisors to ensure that packages are structured to achieve this objective. 
The report presents the detail of remuneration including salaries, bonus arrangements,  
long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits paid to Directors. It sets out the remuneration 
paid in 2011 in compliance with the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Committee looks to have a transparent and open dialogue with shareholders  
on remuneration. 
During 2011, the Committee considered a wide range of issues which I summarise  
below and the detail of which is contained in the Report:
•  Base salaries for Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes were increased by 5 per cent and 3 per  
cent respectively with effect from 1 January 2012. This took into account pay increases within  
the Group’ s workforce, market data and the need to retain our talented management team.
•  2011 bonus payments to the Executive Directors averaged 87 per cent of the maximum 
potential. This has been earned against the financial outcome for 2011 which has seen  
profit before tax* increase by 23.6 per cent. Each Executive Director will defer a significant 
percentage of their annual bonus for 2011 into the Deferred Bonus Plan.
•  To ensure greater alignment with shareholder interests, the Committee, following  
consultation with our major shareholders, has introduced a re-balanced remuneration 
package for Executive Directors for 2012 onwards. These simplified arrangements  
increase the amount of remuneration delivered in the form of shares, enhance the long-term 
focus of Executive Directors and more closely align remuneration with shareholder interests.
•  Long-term incentive awards made in 2009 to Executive Directors and senior executives have 
fully achieved the performance conditions based on T otal Shareholder Return. These awards 
will vest in April 2012 and reflect the creation of shareholder value over the performance period.
•  The Committee has confirmed the need for Executive Directors to build a significant 
shareholding in the Company of at least one times salary over a reasonable period of time.
•  Long-term incentive awards to be made in 2012 will be retained at the level of one times 
salary for Executive Directors and will have stretching performance conditions attached 
based on Total Shareholder Return and growth in Earnings Per Share.
•  In 2011 we introduced a clawback policy which applies to any award made under the 
Annual Cash Bonus Plan or long-term incentive plans from 2011 onwards.
Finally, I note that the Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory vote at the  
forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2012. I will attend the meeting and  
be available to answer questions about our remuneration policy. 
Simon Beresford-Wylie
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 32          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Remuneration Report
This Report contains the information required under the  
Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code as issued  
in June 2010 and under the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following 
throughout 2011: 
Simon Beresford-Wylie - Chairman 
Maria Richter  
Nigel Moore  
John Hughes - appointed 11 March 2011 
Will Wyatt - retired 19 May 2011
Carolyn Fairbairn has been appointed to the Committee with  
effect from 1 February 2012.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the 
remuneration packages, including base salaries, annual cash 
bonus arrangements, participation in incentive schemes, pension 
arrangements and all other benefits received by the Executive 
Directors. In the event of the termination of employment of the 
Executive Directors, the Committee also determines any 
compensation payments, after taking appropriate legal advice.
The Committee further oversees the framework of senior executive 
remuneration, including members of the Operations Executive, 
including terms of service, pay structure, annual cash bonus, 
pensions, share incentive arrangements and all other benefits.
The Chairman, Michael Harper, the Group Chief Executive, 
Stephen Bird, the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, and  
the Group HR Director, Cathy Walkington, attended meetings  
by invitation in the year ended 31 December 2011. The Executive 
Directors or members of the Operations Executive are not 
present when their own remuneration is being considered. The 
remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors  
is determined by the Board as a whole, with the Chairman or  
the relevant Non-Executive Director abstaining when his or her 
remuneration is considered. 
For further information regarding governance for the Remuneration 
Committee see pages 54 and 55.
Remuneration policy
Remuneration packages are formulated to attract, retain and 
motivate Executive Directors and senior executives without being 
excessive, by reference to salary and benefit surveys supplied  
by one or more external sources. They take into account the 
responsibilities and risks involved and remuneration packages  
in comparable companies that have similar scale international 
operations. Consideration of remuneration and benefits across 
the employee population is also taken into account.
Up to 18 October 2011, the Committee received advice from 
Towers Watson as the Committee’s appointed remuneration 
advisor. This advice related to disclosures in the 2010 
Remuneration Report, measurement of performance conditions 
associated with long-term incentive arrangements, changes to 
performance conditions associated with long-term incentive 
arrangements, a proposal to re-balance the senior executive 
Annual Cash Bonus Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan  
and general remuneration advice. Towers Watson also provides 
pensions advice and pensions administrative services to the 
Company. The Committee also received advice and administrative 
support from the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, and  
the Group HR Director, Cathy Walkington.
Following a detailed review of the services provided, the 
Committee decided on 18 October 2011 to change remuneration 
advisors to Deloitte LLP . Since their appointment Deloitte have 
provided the Committee with advice in connection with Executive 
Director and senior executive remuneration packages including  
the Annual Cash Bonus Plan and long-term incentives. Both 
Towers Watson and Deloitte are members of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and are committed to the Group’s voluntary 
code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK.
UK based employees, including Executive Directors, are offered 
membership of a defined contribution Group personal  
pension plan. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts do not provide for 
pre-determined amounts of compensation in the event of early 
termination by the Company. The Committee’s policy in the event 
of early termination of employment is to mitigate compensation  
to the fullest extent practicable.
The Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the individual 
and the Company for an Executive Director to take up one 
external non-executive appointment. Remuneration received by 
an Executive Director in respect of such an external appointment 
would be retained by the director. Stephen Bird is a Non-
Executive Director of Umeco PLC, a position he has held since 
October 2006. In this capacity, Stephen Bird receives a basic  
fee of £35,000 per annum and an additional fee of £5,000 per 
annum as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Under the 
terms of his service contract, Paul Hayes, with the agreement  
of the Chief Executive and Chairman, may take up one external 
non-executive appointment of a listed company on the 
completion of one year’s service with the Company.
The Committee currently has no intention of amending the above 
stated policy, however, it will be reviewed from time to time.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts but serve under letters of appointment. The initial 
Remuneration Report (continued) The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          33
period of their appointments is three years but their appointments 
may, by mutual consent, and with the approval of the Nominations 
Committee and the Board, be extended for a further three years. 
Appointments may be extended beyond six years by mutual 
consent, and with the approval of the Nominations Committee  
and the Board, if it is in the interest of the Company to do so.
Executive Directors' remuneration
The Executive Directors’ remuneration comprises a basic salary,  
an annual cash bonus, long-term share incentives, a car 
allowance, medical insurance, membership of the Group’s 
personal pension scheme or a contribution to their own personal 
pension arrangement and life assurance. A contribution towards  
a permanent health arrangement for Stephen Bird has been made 
since his appointment on 14 April 2009 and a similar contribution 
has been set up for Paul Hayes with effect from 6 January 2012. 
For 2011 the Annual Cash Bonus Plan has been structured as 
follows for the Executive Directors:
These weightings will also apply for the structure of the 2012 
Annual Cash Bonus Plan for Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes.
Each Executive Director under the 2011 Annual Cash Bonus Plan 
can receive a maximum cash bonus of up to 100% of basic salary 
(pro-rated for Paul Hayes to reflect his start date of 13 June 2011). 
The financial elements of the Annual Cash Bonus Plan for each 
Executive Director are based upon actual financial results achieved 
for Group Profit Before Tax* and Group Working Capital to Sales 
measured against the 2011 Budget as set by the Board. The 
Remuneration Committee considers that these two financial 
performance targets have the most direct impact upon shareholder 
value. The Remuneration Committee does not publish specific 
details of these financial targets since it believes they are 
commercially sensitive and that it would not be in the Company’s 
best interests to do so. For both financial targets the following 
trigger points were used in 2011:
• 95% or less of budget* – Threshold – resulting in no payout;
• 100% of budget* – Target – resulting in half of the maximum 
payout;
• 110% of budget for Group Profit Before Tax* and 107.5%  
of budget for Group Working Capital to Sales – Maximum – 
resulting in a maximum payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the  
above points.
The personal objective element of the 2011 Annual Cash  
Bonus Plan for each Executive Director is based upon individual 
performance measured against stretching personal objectives  
set by the Board and Remuneration Committee. For 2011, the 
Board and Remuneration Committee increased Stephen Bird’s 
personal objectives element to 30% to enable greater emphasis  
to be given on stretching targets tied to delivery of strategy.
Both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes are required to defer a 
minimum of 20% of the 2011 Annual Cash Bonus. However, 
they can, subject to Remuneration Committee approval, defer  
up to 100% of the 2011 Annual Cash Bonus into the Deferred 
Bonus Plan. Any amount of the Annual Cash Bonus deferred  
into the Deferred Bonus Plan attracts a performance-based 
matching award on vesting.
The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion  
in connection with the Annual Cash Bonus Plan only in 
exceptional circumstances, taking into account the overall 
financial performance of the Company.
Group Profit Before Tax* 
46.7% of total
Group Profit Before Tax* 
50% of total
Personal Objectives 
30% of total
Personal Objectives 
25% of total
Group Working 
Capital to Sales 
23.3% of total
Group Working 
Capital to Sales 
25% of total
Stephen Bird - Annual Cash Bonus Plan
Paul Hayes - Annual Cash Bonus Plan
* Before Significant items 34          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Rebalancing of Executive remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, supported by its advisors,  
Deloitte, carried out a comprehensive review of executive 
remuneration arrangements in 2011. The aim of the review,  
which involved consultations with major shareholders, was  
to simplify the arrangements, whilst increasing the portion of 
remuneration to be delivered in the form of shares at the end  
of the three year period. The Committee believes that the new 
arrangements will enhance the long-term focus for Executive 
Directors to deliver strong sustained growth and ensure greater 
alignment with shareholder interest.
As a consequence of the review, the following arrangements  
will apply for 2012 for Executive Directors:
• The maximum annual bonus opportunity has been increased 
from 100% of base salary to 125% of base salary.
• With effect from 2012, 50% of the earned annual cash bonus will 
be paid in cash and 50% will be mandatorily deferred into shares 
through the Deferred Bonus Plan. This means that the maximum 
cash proportion of the bonus will be 62.5% of base salary 
compared to 80% of base salary under the 2011 arrangements.
• Whilst an increased annual bonus opportunity of 125% of base 
salary will reward the delivery of strong annual performance, the 
increased deferral will focus the Executive Directors on long-term 
value delivery and growth.
• Voluntary deferral of annual cash bonus is removed so that a 
matching award under the Deferred Bonus Plan can only be 
earned on 50% of the bonus that is mandatorily deferred.
• Matching shares could be due subject to performance 
conditions at a 1:3 basis for target performance and 1:1 for 
maximum performance.
• An increased bonus opportunity of 125% of base salary will 
reward delivery of strong annual performance and the increased 
mandatory deferral will focus the executive on long-term value 
delivery and growth.
• Performance conditions tied to the deferred bonus into the 
Deferred Bonus Plan will continue to be the same as for the 
Long Term Incentive Plan.
• Long Term Incentive Plan awards will be maintained at a 
maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary.
• The proportion of the Long Term Incentive Plan award that  
vests for threshold performance will be reduced to 25% of the 
award (for both the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and Earnings 
Per Share (EPS) components of the award) instead of the current 
35%. This change has been made in recognition of concerns 
raised by shareholders and is also in line with market practice. 
The Committee will set stretching performance points for each 
of the vesting points. In addition, full vesting of the TSR portion 
of the award will require upper quartile performance (previously 
full vesting required upper quintile performance) so that the 
arrangements are in line with typical market practice.
The Remuneration Committee, when determining Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, takes into account remuneration and 
employment terms and conditions, including levels of pay for 
employees of the Company.
Fixed and variable pay elements for 2012
The following chart shows the balance between fixed and  
variable pay elements of the remuneration package for Executive 
Directors in 2012 assuming target performance and reflecting  
the re-structure outlined above:
Stephen Bird, aged 51, appointed a Director and Group Chief 
Executive of the Company on 14 April 2009, is employed under  
a service contract dated 28 January 2009. The notice period by 
the Company under his contract is 12 months and notice by the 
employee to the Company is six months. He also participates  
in the Annual Cash Bonus Plan for 2012 that may deliver a 
maximum bonus of 125% of salary. For 2012 the structure of 
Stephen Bird's Annual Cash Bonus is as set out in the chart  
on page 33. For 2012, the Remuneration Committee decided  
to maintain the percentage of Annual Cash Bonus allocated to 
personal objectives to maintain focus on the achievement of 
specific strategic objectives particularly around achievement  
of the three market growth strategy. 
The Annual Cash Bonus Plan for 2012 has been structured to 
ensure that Executive Directors and senior management remain 
focused on the delivery of stringent financial targets. For 2012,  
the financial measures will remain the same as for the 2011 plan 
namely Group Profit Before Tax* and Group Working Capital to 
Sales. In spite of the current macro-economic uncertainty, the 
Board considers the budget set for 2012 to be significantly 
stretching in the current environment to ensure that performance 
is driven. The Committee is therefore of the view that as the  
bonus targets are based on a stretching budget, it is appropriate 
that the annual bonus payout starts at 90% of budget. The 
following trigger points will apply:
Remuneration Report (continued)
Fixed pay elements Variable pay elements
Pension
7% of total 
remuneration
Salary
34% of total 
remuneration
Other Benefits 
(inc. car allowance)
2% of total 
remuneration
Long Term 
Incentives
34% of total 
remuneration
Annual  
Cash Bonus
23% of total 
remuneration
* Before Significant items The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          35
• 90% or less of budget – Threshold – resulting in no payout;
• 100% of budget for Group Profit Before Tax* and 95% of budget 
for Group Working Capital to Sales – Target – resulting in half of 
the maximum paying out;
• 105% of budget – Stretch – resulting in maximum payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the  
above points.
The Company may, in the event of termination of employment,  
pay a sum in lieu of notice equal to 12 months’ gross basic salary 
together with the gross value of other benefits that he is entitled  
to receive under his service contract, but excluding any bonus or 
share options which are not granted, do not vest or cannot be 
exercised in accordance with the rules of such schemes.
Stephen Bird’s salary was increased from £371,000 to £389,550 
(a 5% increase) with effect from 1 January 2012.
Paul Hayes, aged 45, was appointed a Director and Group 
Finance Director of the Company on 13 June 2011, and is 
employed under a service contract dated 3 June 2011.  
The notice period by the Company under his contract is  
12 months and notice by the employee to the Company is  
six months. He also participates in the Annual Cash Bonus Plan 
for 2012 that may deliver a maximum bonus of 125% of salary.  
For 2012 the structure of Paul Hayes' Annual Cash Bonus is as 
set out on page 33. The financial targets are unchanged from 
those used in 2011 other than being set against the 2012 budget 
since they are considered to have the most direct impact upon 
shareholder value. The same trigger points for Group Profit Before 
Tax* and Group Working Capital to Sales will apply as described  
for Stephen Bird above.
Paul Hayes’ salary was increased from £260,000 to £267,800  
(a 3% increase) with effect from 1 January 2012. 
The Remuneration Committee will retain absolute discretion  
in connection with the Annual Cash Bonus Plan for 2012 for 
Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes, enabling it to reduce or increase 
payments up to the maximum limit in exceptional circumstances 
or where an outcome would have an undesirable effect.
The Company may, in the event of termination of employment,  
pay a sum in lieu of notice equal to 12 months’ gross basic salary 
together with the gross value of other benefits that he is entitled  
to receive under his service contract, but excluding any bonus  
or share options which are not granted, do not vest or cannot  
be exercised in accordance with the rules of such schemes.
Salaries for the Executive Directors will be reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee in December 2012 for 2013 taking  
into account several factors including Company and individual 
performance, pay increases for the Company’s employees, 
market rates for Executive Directors' remuneration and prevailing 
economic conditions at that time.
Incentive arrangements
The Company has the following long-term incentive arrangements 
in place.
The Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders  
at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used to 
make awards to the Executive Directors, the members of the 
Operations Executive and to the Group’s senior management  
as envisaged when shareholder approval was received. The  
level of awards for the Executive Directors and members of the 
Operations Executive in 2011 were one times salary, based  
on the Company’s share price at the date of award. Awards for  
2012 will be at the same level. Awards for the Group’s senior 
management are based on a specific number of shares, but  
which does not exceed one times salary.
The Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used in connection 
with bonuses paid since then arising from the Annual Cash Bonus 
Plan and will be used in 2012 and future years.
The Unapproved Share Option Plan was approved by shareholders 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2002 and grants  
were last made to Executive Directors in office at that time in 
March 2008. No further awards can be made under that Plan.  
The performance conditions for awards under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan, the Deferred Bonus Plan and under the 
Unapproved Share Option Plan are set out in detail on  
pages 36 and 37.
Monitoring and measuring the performance conditions take 
place following the end of each year when the Company’s  
results have been audited and again at the end of the relevant 
performance period for options and awards. The Chairman and 
the Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the 
Company’s share incentive schemes and consequently they  
do not hold any share options or other share incentives.
Awards and grants under the Group’s incentive arrangements  
are within the overall flow limits advised by the Association of 
British Insurers to limit potential dilution arising from the issue  
of new shares.
Performance targets and vesting levels are reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee ahead of each time an award is made  
to ensure that they remain sufficiently demanding and are aligned 
with long-term shareholder interests. 36          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Long Term Incentive Plan
Executive Directors and other senior employees are selected to 
receive awards over shares that vest in whole or in part depending 
on the satisfaction of performance conditions. For awards made 
before 2010 under the Plan the performance condition was based  
on the Company’s TSR over a period of three years, relative to a 
comparator group of other companies. The comparator group 
comprises companies of similar market capitalisation and having 
at least 50% of their turnover arising outside of the UK. Due to the 
size of the comparator group (approximately 60 in total), it is not 
practical to detail it fully in this report. The Company Secretary 
can provide this detail if required. The Remuneration Committee 
reviews the composition of the comparator group in conjunction 
with its remuneration consultants annually ahead of awards to 
determine that it is relevant and sufficiently demanding. 
For awards made in 2010 and 2011 the Remuneration 
Committee, having consulted with major shareholders,  
decided to amend the performance condition to provide  
a more meaningful measure of performance. 50% of an award  
is measured based upon TSR as described above. However,  
50% of an award is subject to growth in the Company’s  
EPS*. Each performance condition is entirely independent from 
the other performance condition.
Performance condition
For that part of an award made before 2012 measured against 
TSR, if the Company’s TSR performance is at the median of the 
comparator group at the end of the three-year performance 
period, 35% of that element of an award may vest. The full 
element of an award may vest if the Company’s TSR performance 
is in the top 20% of the comparator group. There is a pro-rata 
straight line vesting between these two points. For that part of  
an award measured against EPS* growth made in 2010, if the 
percentage growth in the EPS* of the Company exceeds the 
percentage growth in the Retail Price Index (RPI) over the 
three-year performance period by 4% (Compound Average 
Growth Rate), 35% of that element of an award may vest.  
Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth in EPS* over the 
performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 8% (Compound 
Average Growth Rate) or greater. There is a pro-rata straight line 
vesting between these two points. An award lapses if the lower 
point under both performance conditions is not achieved during 
the performance period and there is no re-testing of performance 
under either performance condition. The Remuneration 
Committee will also consider the underlying financial  
performance of the Company before it confirms vesting. 
For awards made in 2011 the same performance conditions 
applied as in 2010 except that the EPS* growth figures were  
5% and 10% respectively.
Following consultation with major shareholders regarding the 
re-balancing of executive remuneration, awards in 2012 onwards 
will have the following performance conditions attached:
50% of an award will be subject to TSR with the Company’s  
TSR performance ranked against the constituents of the FTSE  
250 index (excluding financial services companies and investment 
trusts) over a three year performance period. The constituents  
of the FTSE 250 index have a greater level of complexity and 
internationality when compared to the previous comparator  
group constituents and so are more comparable to Vitec’s 
business operations where over 90% of revenues are generated 
from outside the UK. Threshold performance for the TSR 
performance condition will be at the median point of the 
comparator group and will result in 25% of an award vesting.  
Full vesting for the TSR element will be at the upper quartile  
point of the comparator group. A straight line sliding scale will 
operate between each of the above points.
50% of the award will be subject to EPS* growth in a similar 
manner to prior years over a three year performance period.  
The Remuneration Committee has not yet determined the 
percentage growth rates for threshold and full vesting for awards 
to be made in 2012. However, the Remuneration Committee will 
take into account market consensus figures following publication 
of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2011, 
advice from its corporate broker and internal forecasts. 
Dividends that would have been paid on shares vesting under  
the Long Term Incentive Plan during the performance period  
are re-invested in additional shares.
There will be no re-testing of either performance condition and  
the Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying 
financial performance of the Company before it confirms vesting.
Deferred Bonus Plan
Executive Directors and members of the Operations Executive  
are required to defer a proportion of any cash bonuses in 
exchange for receiving a core award over shares in the Company 
with a value equivalent, at the date of award, to the amount of the 
deferred bonus. For bonuses earned in 2011, or before, a 
minimum of 20% of bonus for Executive Directors and 15% of 
bonus for the Operations Executive members was required to be 
deferred. However, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, the executive could voluntarily decide to defer a 
higher proportion up to a maximum of 100% of any bonus paid 
under the annual bonus scheme. A core award may, in normal 
circumstances, be exercised by a participant after two years.  
If exercise is deferred for three years, the executive remains 
employed by the Group, and subject to satisfaction of the 
performance conditions, the participant is entitled to receive a 
matching award of additional shares up to the number comprised 
Remuneration Report (continued)
* Before Significant items The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          37
in the core award. Shares comprising core awards are purchased 
in the market and held in trust by the Employee Benefit Trust until 
exercise. Dividends that would have been paid on the core award 
of shares and the actual matching shares that vest during the 
performance period are re-invested in additional shares. 
Performance condition
For awards under the Plan made before 2010, if the executive 
remains in employment for three years, and if in that period  
the Company’s TSR relative to a comparator group of other 
companies is at median, or above, of the comparator group,  
the deferred core shares will be matched at the rate of:
• One matching share for every three core shares at median 
performance; and
• One matching share for every one core share within the top  
20% performance.
There will be pro-rata straight line vesting between these points. 
The comparator group comprises the same group used for the 
Long Term Incentive Plan.
For awards under the Plan made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 the 
performance condition has changed to the same as applies to  
the Long Term Incentive Plan for that respective year. There is  
no re-testing of performance under either performance condition.
Unapproved Share Option Plan
Executive Directors and other senior executives have previously 
been selected to receive options over shares. The price of an 
option over shares is fixed at the date of grant at the prevailing 
market price of the Company’s shares at that time. Exercise of an 
option is subject to growth in the Company’s EPS*. Options are 
exercisable between the third and the tenth anniversaries of their 
dates of grant subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
Performance condition
Options granted in 2008 had the following condition. If the 
percentage growth in the EPS* of the Company exceeds the 
percentage growth in the Retail Prices Index over the three-year 
performance period by 9% (the base target threshold), an option 
will become exercisable in respect of one third of the shares over 
which it is held. Full vesting takes place when such growth over 
the performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 30% or greater.
A sliding scale operates for performance between the lower and 
upper thresholds. Options lapse if the base target threshold is not 
achieved by the end of the three year performance period. There 
is no re-testing of performance. Options granted in 2008 failed to 
achieve the base target threshold and therefore lapsed in 2011.
No options have been granted since March 2008. The Rules of 
the plan will expire on 17 April 2012 and the Company cannot 
make any further awards after this date.
Clawback
The Remuneration Committee has introduced a clawback policy 
that applies to any award made under the Annual Cash Bonus 
Plan, Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan or Share 
Option Plan for any awards made from 2011 onwards. Under the 
policy any Executive Director or senior executive found to have 
benefited from an award due to inappropriate behaviour, acts 
including material misstatement, misconduct, or a material ethical 
breach against the Company’s Code of Business Conduct may 
have the after-tax value of that award clawed back.
Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan
The Group operates a savings-related share option scheme in  
the UK and a similar international plan in respect of overseas 
employees in certain countries. The scheme and plan are open  
to all the Group’s employees in those countries, including the 
Executive Directors. Under the scheme and plan, participants 
contract for either a three, five or seven year term (two years in  
the US from 2012 onwards) to save a set amount each month  
(£250 maximum or equivalent in local currency) in return for which 
they receive an option over a specified number of shares. The 
price of an option over shares is fixed at the date of grant and, in 
the UK, has a 20% discount to the market price. In other countries 
the discount applied is either the same or less to reflect local 
regulations. At the end of the savings period, participants may 
exercise their options to buy shares in the Company using their 
savings. Exercise is not subject to any performance condition.
Invitations under the Group’s Sharesave arrangements are usually 
made annually and these are planned to continue.
The existing rules for the scheme and plan were approved by 
shareholders at the AGM in May 2011 and will expire in May 2021.
Five-year share price performance
Under the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002, the Company is required to include a graph 
showing the Company’s performance compared to an 
appropriate index over a five year period. Set out on page 38,  
the graph illustrates the Company’s annual total shareholder 
return (share price growth plus dividends that have been 
declared, paid and re-invested in the Company’s shares) relative 
to the FTSE Small Cap, FTSE All Share Media and FTSE Industrial 
Engineering Index for the preceding five year period, assuming an 
initial investment of £100. These indices have been chosen for the 
purpose of the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 
since they are a suitably broad-based equity market index.
To produce a ‘fair value’ each point is a 30 trading day average  
of the indices. TSR data is taken from Datastream.  38          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Five year share price performance 2007-2011
The Company’s average annual TSR for the three year period 
ended 31 December 2011 was 52.8% (three year period ended 
31 December 2010: 6.7%). TSR comprises share price growth 
plus dividends paid over a three year period and is expressed as  
a percentage of average compound annual growth. 
The following information has been audited by the Company's 
auditor, KPMG Audit Plc:
Directors’ remuneration
Michael Harper, Chairman, is currently paid a fee at the rate of 
£120,000 per annum. The fee payable to the other Non-Executive 
Directors is £40,000 per annum. Fees were last increased in June 
2010 and following a review by the Board in 2011 no further 
increases were proposed. 
The chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit 
Committee, Simon Beresford-Wylie and Nigel Moore respectively, 
receive an additional fee for their services as chairmen of those 
Committees. Simon Beresford-Wylie receives an additional £5,000 
per annum and Nigel Moore receives an additional £8,000 per 
annum. An additional fee of £5,000 is also paid to the Senior 
Independent Director, Nigel Moore. The fees for the Chairmanship 
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were approved in 
June 2008 and remained unaltered in 2011. The additional fee  
for the role of the Senior Independent Director was increased  
from £2,200 to £5,000 with effect from 1 July 2011 to reflect  
work associated with the role. Fees for the Chairman and the 
other Non-Executive Directors will be reviewed on an annual  
basis but there is no commitment to increase fees annually.  
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other benefits 
from the Company.
Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive
Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive, currently receives an annual 
salary of £389,550, increased from £371,000 with effect from  
1 January 2012 (an increase of 5%). This increase took into 
account salaries and benefit surveys for the role and consideration 
of remuneration and benefits across the Company's employee 
population. Stephen Bird is not a member of the Group Personal 
Pension Plan, but receives a contribution of 20% of his basic 
salary in the form of an alternative pension contribution. Stephen 
Bird was paid a bonus of £323,816 in respect of 2011 based upon 
an assessment of the achievement of financial and personal 
objectives for 2011. This represented 87% of the maximum bonus 
potential. The financial objectives represented 70% of the bonus 
and comprised Group Profit Before Tax* representing two thirds of 
the total and Group Working Capital to Sales targets representing 
one third of the total measured against the 2011 budget. For both 
financial objectives, the following trigger points were used:
• 95% or less of budget* – Threshold – resulting in no payout;
• 100% of budget* – Target – resulting in half of the maximum 
paying out;
• 110% of budget for Group Profit Before Tax* and 107.5% of 
budget for Group Working Capital to Sales – Stretch – resulting 
in maximum payout; and
• A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the  
above points.
The Group Profit Before Tax* element was fully achieved and  
the Group Working Capital to Sales element was 52% achieved.  
30% of the bonus was measured against personal objectives set 
by the Board and included development of a world class senior 
management team, strategic delivery including the successful 
development of the Manfrotto Powerbrand, development of the 
MAG and Litepanels businesses and corporate activity including 
the successful acquisition and integration of businesses in the 
photographic and MAG sectors. These personal objectives  
were 95% achieved.
Stephen Bird will be eligible for a performance related bonus 
based on the Company’s financial performance and personal 
objectives for the year ending 31 December 2012 of up to  
125% of base salary.
Paul Hayes, Group Finance Director
Paul Hayes, Group Finance Director, currently receives an  
annual salary of £267,800 increased from £260,000 with effect 
from 1 January 2012 (an increase of 3%). Paul Hayes is not a 
member of the Group Personal Pension Plan, but receives a 
contribution of 20% of his basic salary in the form of an alternative 
200
150
100
250
50
0
300
£
31 Dec 
2006
31 Dec 
2007
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE All Share Media
FTSE Industrial Engineering Index
The Vitec Group plc
Remuneration Report (continued)
* Before Significant items  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          39
pension contribution. Paul Hayes was paid a bonus of £124,797  
in respect of 2011 based on an assessment of the achievement  
of financial and personal objectives for 2011. This represented 
87% of the maximum bonus potential, pro-rated from his date  
of joining. The financial objectives represented 75% of the  
bonus and comprised Group Profit Before Tax* representing  
two thirds of the total and Group Working Capital to Sales  
targets representing one third of the total measured against  
the 2011 budget. For both financial objectives the trigger points  
were as described above for Stephen Bird. The Group Profit 
Before Tax* element was fully achieved and the Group Working 
Capital to Sales element was 52% achieved. 25% of the bonus 
was measured against personal objectives set by the Board and 
included delivery of interim reporting, 2010 subsidiary statutory 
accounts, updating management monthly reports, development 
of banking relationships and strategy for credit renewal, investor 
day, supply chain strategy and financial support around merger  
and acquisitions projects. These personal objectives were  
95% achieved. 
Paul Hayes will be eligible for a performance related bonus  
based on the Company’s financial performance and personal 
objectives for the year ending 31 December 2012 of up to  
125% of base salary.
Richard Cotton
Richard Cotton, appointed a Director on 3 November 2008 under  
a service contract dated 17 September 2008, ceased to be a 
Director and an employee of the Company on 4 February 2011.  
He received a salary of £265,000 per annum. He was not a 
member of the Group Personal Pension Plan but had his own 
personal pension arrangement into which the Company 
contributed 20% of his basic salary. Under the service contract  
the notice period by the Company was 12 months and notice  
by the employee to the Company was six months. As explained  
in the 2010 Annual Report, and set out below, are full details  
of the termination payments made to Richard Cotton with effect 
from his date of leaving, as specified under the terms of his  
service contract.
The Company made 12 monthly payments of salary and  
pension contributions. Richard Cotton also received:
• 12 monthly payments of £400 per month in lieu of Private  
Health Insurance;
• A contribution of £5,621 for private healthcare cover;
• A company car with a value of £20,000;
• Outplacement support up to a value of £30,000;
• Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan awards  
were pro-rated to the date of leaving and subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions will vest on the third 
anniversary of each respective award; and
• Sharesave was treated in accordance with the rules of  
that Scheme.
In accordance with the terms of his severance agreement,  
on 20 April 2011, 55,636 shares awarded to Richard Cotton  
under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 14 April 2009 lapsed in 
accordance with the pro-rating of these awards to his date of 
leaving. 87,426 shares are outstanding under this award and  
may be exercised on the third anniversary of the award on  
14 April 2012. The performance condition based on TSR has 
been fully achieved and all 87,426 shares will vest.
On 20 April 2011, 46,935 shares awarded to Richard Cotton 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 8 March 2010 lapsed in 
accordance with the pro-rating of the award to his date of leaving. 
20,650 shares are outstanding under this award and may be 
exercised should the required performance conditions be met  
on the third anniversary of the award on 8 March 2013.
On 20 April 2011, Richard Cotton exercised his right over  
18,228 Core Awards as deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan 
on 9 March 2010. Under the Core Award he was entitled to 
receive the Company’s dividend payments from the date of the 
award until the date of exercise and hence 563 dividend shares 
were exercised on this date. He retains the pro-rata right to 
exercise 5,569 Matching Awards, should the award achieve  
the required performance conditions on the third anniversary  
of the award on 9 March 2013.
A pro-rated number of 4,987 shares under the Sharesave Scheme 
were exercised by Richard Cotton at an option price of £1.31 per 
share on 3 August 2011, as granted on 1 May 2009. 1,997 shares 
lapsed under this grant. Richard Cotton has no outstanding 
options under the Sharesave Scheme.
Richard Cotton was paid a bonus of £254,281 in respect of 2010 
based upon an assessment of the achievement of financial and 
personal objectives for 2010. The financial objectives represented 
70% of the bonus and were the same as described for Stephen 
Bird. These targets were fully achieved. 25% of the bonus was 
set against personal objectives set by the Board and tied to 
achievement of the Group strategy, improvements in the risk  
and control environment for the Group, development of investor 
relations and the re-structuring of UK pension arrangements. 
These personal objectives were 95% achieved. Richard Cotton 
did not receive a bonus in connection with 2011. 40          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ long-term incentives
Remuneration Report (continued)
      Performance  Pension 
  Salaries and    related  related 
  fees  Benefits
 (1) 
 annual bonus  remuneration  Total
                    
  2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
Director’s name £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman                    
Michael Harper 120,000 115,000 - - - - - - 120,000 115,000
Executive Directors                    
Stephen Bird 371,000 360,500 25,414 24,352 323,816 355,994 74,200 72,100 794,430 812,946
Paul Hayes  
(appointed on 13 June 2011) 143,890 - 9,113 - 124,797 - 28,778 - 306,578 -
Richard Cotton  
(left on 4 February 2011) 265,000 257,500 60,421 17,376 - 254,281 53,000 51,500 378,421 580,657
Non-Executive Directors                    
Simon Beresford-Wylie 45,000 40,917 - - - - - - 45,000 40,917
Nigel Moore 50,753 46,000 - - - - - - 50,753 46,000
Maria Richter 40,000 38,000 - - - - - - 40,000 38,000
Will Wyatt  
(until 19 May 2011) 16,071 42,283 - - - - - - 16,071 42,283
John Hughes 
(appointed on 11 March 2011) 32,438 - - - - - - - 32,438 -
 
Total  1,084,152 900,200 94,948 41,728 448,613 610,275 155,978 123,600 1,783,691 1,675,803
(1)
  The principal benefits are a Company vehicle or a cash allowance, fuel where a Company vehicle is provided, medical insurance and life assurance. 
   Options Options Options   Market 
  At exercised lapsed granted At 31  price at   
  1 January during during during December Exercise exercise Date from 
Directors’  Date of 2011 year year year 2011 price date which Expiry  
share options grant (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence) exercisable date
Stephen Bird
Sharesave options May 2009 6,984 - - - 6,984 131 - Jul 2012 Dec 2012
Richard Cotton
(left on 4 February 2011)
Sharesave options May 2009 6,984 4,987 1,997 - - 131 630 Feb 2011 Aug 2011 
Alastair Hewgill                    
(left on 14 October 2010)
Unapproved Share Options Mar 2008 23,165 - 23,165 - - 512 - Oct 2009 Oct 2011
 
Total  37,133 4,987 25,162 - 6,984
Detailed Audit Disclosures
Details of the directors’ remuneration and share incentives for 2011 with comparatives for 2010 are set out in the following tables.  
All of these tables have been audited by KPMG Audit Plc. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          41
(1)
  The Long Term Incentive award made on 14 April 2009 has fully achieved its performance condition based on TSR. 100% of awards will therefore vest on the 
third anniversary of the award on 14 April 2012.
   Awards Awards Awards  Market Market 
  Awards at exercised lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
  1 January during during during December award exercise 
Awards under the  Date of 2011 the year  the year the year 2011 date  date 
Long Term Incentive Plan award (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird  
 Apr 2009 
(1)
 200,286 - - - 200,286 175 -
 Mar 2010 94,619 - - - 94,619 381 -
 Mar 2011 - - - 62,352 62,352 595 -
Richard Cotton  
(left on 4 February 2011)
 Apr 2009 
(1)
 143,062 - 55,636 - 87,426 175 -
 Mar 2010 67,585 - 46,935 - 20,650 381 -
 
Total  505,552 - 102,571 62,352 465,333 
(1)
  There is a performance condition attached to the matching awards that is detailed on page 37. For the purposes of this table and footnotes, where the award has 
not yet been finally performance tested, 100% vesting is assumed.
Paul Hayes having joined the Company on 13 June 2011 does not 
currently hold any share options, long-term incentives or awards 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan or Deferred Bonus Plan. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company's share 
price reached a high of 661.75 pence and a low of 488 pence.
Performance conditions associated with the Long Term Incentive 
Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and Unapproved Share Option Plan are 
set out on pages 36 and 37. Other than as disclosed in the table 
footnotes, there have been no other changes to these interests in 
the period from 31 December 2011 to 29 February 2012.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2012 and 
signed on its behalf by:
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary
   Awards Awards Awards  Market Market 
  Awards at exercised lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
  1 January during during during December award exercise 
Awards under the  Date of 2011 the year  the year the year 2011 date  date 
Deferred Bonus Plan award (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird                
  Mar 2010             
  Core 26,185  - - - 26,185 385 -
 Matching 
(1)
 26,185 - - - 26,185 385 -
 Mar 2011             
  Core -  - - 28,690 28,690 608 -
 Matching 
(1)
 - - - 28,690 28,690 608 -
Richard Cotton 
(left on 4 February 2011)
 Mar 2010             
 Core 18,228 18,228 - - - 385 630
 Matching 
(1)
 18,228 - 12,659 - 5,569 385 -
 
Total  88,826 18,228 12,659 57,380 115,319 42          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Our Approach
While our main purpose remains the  
creation of value for our customers and 
shareholders, we are aware that the way  
we do business matters, as it can have an 
influence on our employees, the community 
and the environment. This drives our 
commitment to consider the impact of  
our actions in everything we do.
We believe that our corporate responsibility 
efforts will engage and motivate our 
employees, add value for our customers  
and protect our reputation, to the benefit  
of the Company and our shareholders.
Francesco Bernardi talks about Vitec's 
approach to corporate responsibility 
Corporate Responsibility
Environmental
1 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          43
Getting organised to deliver
We understand that it takes years to build a reputation 
and it can be destroyed in an instant.
Our corporate responsibility efforts are to protect our 
reputation and the value of our business. Corporate 
responsibility is central to sustainable growth and we 
recognise that our stakeholders increasingly consider 
corporate responsibility matters in decision making 
about whether to invest in Vitec or to buy our products 
and services. The Board has overall responsibility for 
corporate responsibility matters and formally approves 
our policies including our Code of Business Conduct.
In 2011 we set up a Group-wide team of 
representatives from each division and the Head Office 
to co-ordinate the Company’s corporate responsibility 
activity. This team meets on a regular basis by 
telephone/video conference and shares corporate 
responsibility practices being undertaken at business 
unit and divisional level as well as championing 
Group-wide initiatives. We have decided that two key 
Group-wide priorities for 2012 will be focused on. 
Firstly, to encourage our employees to consider 
adopting healthier lifestyles and secondly, the 
environment and efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. 
We will report on progress for these Group-wide 
projects in next year’s Annual Report.
Each division and business unit run their own 
corporate responsibility activities at a local level 
coupled with Group-wide initiatives notably focused 
on business conduct and ethics, health and safety, 
development of talent and environmental impact.  
To enable readers to understand our corporate 
responsibility activity we break it down into the 
following areas: Environmental; Employees; Business 
Ethics; and Community and Charitable Donations.
Community and  
Charitable Donations
Business  
Ethics
Employees
2 3 4
Our corporate purpose is to provide vital products and services that support the 
capture of exceptional images. To do this we operate with the following values:
>  Product excellence – everything we make and do is exceptional
>  Creative solutions – we are constantly looking to break new ground
>  Integrity – what you see is what you get
>  Customer focus – we are nothing without our customers
>  Collaboration – we work better when we work together 44          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Environmental
Anton/Bauer also collects and recycles 
batteries returned to them from customers. 
These are collected as a Universal Waste 
at our facility and recycled monthly.
Anton/Bauer has also encouraged  
their employees to bring in their  
household batteries (for example  
AAA, 9 volt) for them to recycle.
Staging
Our Staging business continually looks for 
ways to reduce the environmental impact 
of manufacturing operations minimising 
both resources used and waste created. 
During the design and procurement 
process of staging product, the business 
orders optimised raw material lengths. 
During the manufacturing process, several 
orders are combined in an effort to yield 
the highest material usage and minimise 
waste. Customers are offered a recycling 
option for their product with high wear and 
tear. The minimised left over material waste 
is recovered and sent for recycling.
• Energy consumption is reduced by up to 
95% over conventional tungsten systems 
and up to 75% over fluorescent systems;
• Air conditioning bills and related energy 
emissions are also greatly reduced;
• Litepanels bulbs last 50 times longer  
than tungsten so replacement costs are 
also reduced; and
• LEDs have no hazardous materials which 
make disposal difficult – such as the 
mercury in fluorescent tubes.
Batteries
Anton/Bauer has an active programme in 
place for the recycling of batteries. Anton/
Bauer is a member of the Rechargeable 
Battery Recycling Corporation (RBRC),  
a non-profit public service organisation 
which operates Call2Recycle, the only  
free-to-consumer battery recycling 
organisation in the US or Canada.
Call2Recycle is funded by manufacturers, 
known as “Global Industry Stewards” 
(which includes Anton/Bauer) and 
maintains thousands of collection points 
at local retail, business and community 
collection sites in the US and Canada. 
As a global industry steward, Anton/Bauer 
places the RBRC Recycle logo with a toll 
free phone number on all of their batteries. 
This phone number connects the customer 
to Call2Recycle who will then assist the 
customer in determining the closest 
available collection point for their batteries.
Corporate Responsibility (continued)
We take our environmental responsibilities seriously and have 
implemented initiatives with the aim of reducing the environmental 
impacts of our operations, products and services. The approach  
taken is decided upon by each business unit to develop the most 
appropriate measures to reflect their particular operations.
We try, where possible, to design our 
products so that they have a limited impact 
upon the environment in terms of materials 
used for production, packaging, disposal  
and when in use. This Annual Report is 
produced using vegetable-based inks  
and materials approved by The Forest 
Stewardship Council. We also encourage our 
shareholders to receive the Annual Report 
electronically thereby saving on production 
and distribution resources and costs. 
Examples of our efforts in this area  
are many. 
LED Lighting
We reported in detail in the 2010 Annual 
Report on the significant environmental 
benefits of our Litepanels products. 
Our pioneering Litepanels LED lighting 
range is revolutionising the way in which 
broadcast and film studios use energy. 
They dramatically cut the amount of 
energy used helping the industry to make 
its contribution to combat global warming. 
The benefits which Litepanels bring are:
1 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          45
Recycling
We encourage recycling of waste products, 
materials, paper and other items that 
can be recycled at all of our sites be 
they manufacturing sites, warehouses or 
administration offices. Offices have waste 
recycling points to enable the sorting of 
waste into different recycling streams 
(paper, glass, plastics and general).
Vitec Videocom at its manufacturing 
sites in the UK and Costa Rica carefully 
manages the recycling of machine shop 
swarf arising from the manufacturing 
process. The recycling of swarf covers  
the cost of all waste management for  
the UK site.
Utilities
We monitor and track our usage of 
gas, electricity and water across 
our manufacturing, warehouse and 
administrative sites and make efforts 
where possible to reduce our usage  
both in terms of reducing costs and 
impact on the environment. Many 
buildings within the Group including  
the corporate Head Office in the UK  
and Imaging offices in Italy have  
motion sensors for lighting to save  
on electricity usage.
Since 2007, Vitec sites in Italy have 
subscribed to electricity contracts 
with Green Certificates, representing 
tradable instruments that are granted to 
qualifying plants using renewable power. 
The number of certificates issued is 
proportional to the electricity generated by 
a renewable energy source and producers 
must supply the equivalent amount of 
renewable electricity into the grid.
The Group’s gas, electricity and water 
usage per £million of Group revenue over 
the last five years is set out below. 
Technology
Many of the Group’s operating sites 
including the Head Office, divisional head 
offices and business units have video 
conference facilities in place enabling 
employees to video conference with 
both internal and external parties. This 
has enabled travel to be reduced and 
communication improved, with savings in 
journeys and travel time, while ensuring 
that the business is effectively run. 
Our sites in Bassano and Feltre in 
Italy have achieved ISO 14001 status, 
confirming that these operations have 
effective environmental management 
systems in place. 
Did you know?
Litepanels reduce 
energy consumption 
by up to 95% over 
conventional tungsten 
systems 
Our gas usage 
Gas - mega watt hours / £m revenue
Our electricity usage 
Electricity - mega watt hours / £m revenue
Our water usage 
Water - cubic meters / £m revenue
5
10
15
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
20
30
25
5
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
45
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
0.02
0.04
0.06
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
0.08
0.12
0.10 46          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Employees
Our people are our core asset. We employ over 2,000 employees 
in 14 countries of operation with most employees being full-time 
and on permanent contracts of employment. This presents a 
challenge in terms of language and culture. Our employees receive 
an employee handbook setting out key terms of employment and 
policies that apply at divisional and business unit level which are 
tailored for local law. 
Corporate Responsibility (continued)
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
8 accidents representing
396 accidents per 100,000 employees
10 accidents representing
546 accidents per 100,000 employees
10 accidents representing
511 accidents per 100,000 employees
16 accidents representing
723 accidents per 100,000 employees
20 accidents representing
976 accidents per 100,000 employees
Our five  
year accident 
record
There have been no fatalities since the Group began collating Health & Safety statistics in 2002.
We recognise that the capability of our 
organisation to achieve the ambitious  
goals for our sustained growth is 
dependent upon our ability to attract 
and engage a talented and committed 
workforce. To that end, we continue  
to focus our time and resource on  
four core themes:
• Employee Wellbeing 
• Employee Opportunity
• Employee Capability 
• Employee Engagement 
Employee Wellbeing  
Health and Safety 
The provision of a healthy, safe and 
productive work environment for all  
our employees is a priority for Vitec  
and for which all our management  
and employees are held accountable. 
In 2011 we continued to impress on the 
business and employees the need to 
maintain our excellent record for health 
and safety and the Group’s Health and 
Safety Policy was updated and re-issued. 
This policy establishes the Group-wide 
guidelines for the prevention of accidents 
and work related ill-health and provides 
guidance for the adequate control of  
health and safety risks arising from work  
related accidents. 
In practice, this means that all accidents 
resulting in three days or more absence 
from work, accidents with less than three 
days from work, and near misses, are 
reported and remedial action identified  
and implemented to prevent such 
occurrences in the future. 
The Operations Executive reviews the 
health and safety records every month and 
supports the divisions in the management 
of local Health and Safety Committees 
and the implementation of regular training 
activity. Employees receive training on 
health and safety procedures that are 
appropriate to their line of work and 
environment. This may, for example,  
involve training in the use of computer 
driven machining tools, particularly in the 
Staging business or warehouse operations 
and logistics in the Services business.
2 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          47
Wellbeing 
Our Imaging Division started a pilot phase 
of a programme called 'Good3' in Italy, 
to train and provide employees with tools 
to stay healthy, with a focus on three key 
health practices: healthy eating habits, 
exercise and prevention of bad health.
Working Environment 
Over the last twelve months we have 
continued to invest in improving the work 
environment for our employees, creating 
contemporary spaces with upgraded 
technology and communication systems 
that enable collaboration and personal 
efficiency. In 2011, the Imaging Division 
officially opened its new head offices in 
Italy. Investment was approved for the 
upgrade of the Videocom buildings in  
Bury St Edmunds and, in December 2011, 
the Head Office employees moved to their 
new offices in Richmond, UK. 
Our sites in Bassano and Feltre in Italy had 
their OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and 
Safety certification confirmed during 2011.
Benefits 
We employ over 2,000 employees in  
14 different countries who are managed 
in accordance with local employment 
legislation, policies and our organisational 
values. Attracting the talent we need 
and retaining their commitment to our 
organisation in all of the territories in which 
we operate has required the organisation 
to commence an assertive approach to 
our benefits packages in order to support 
our employees and to remain competitive 
in a global market where talent is in 
short supply. In 2011, a full review of the 
eight US Health Benefit plans currently 
in operation took place. This review 
considered the competitiveness of the 
plan, the opportunity to increase their 
value to the employees and potentially to 
mitigate the expected impact of the US 
Healthcare Reforms planned for 2014. As 
a result all employees in the US, including 
those of the Haigh-Farr acquisition, are 
now enrolled on one plan.
Employee Opportunity
Vitec has an equal opportunities 
culture with an express prohibition on 
discrimination of any kind. In 2011,  
Lord Davies’ report on Women on  
Boards was considered by the Board 
leading to a reiteration of our diversity 
statement, which is set out on page 50  
of the Corporate Governance section.
The organisation’s current gender 
breakdown is as follows:
Board of Directors
 25% women, following the appointment  
of Carolyn Fairbairn; 75% men 
Operations Executive 
 Increased to 10% female with the 
appointment of Cathy Walkington in 2011; 
90% male
Senior Management
 13% of the top 60 leaders in the business 
are women; 87% men
Rest of Organisation
26% female; 74% male
Vitec’s approach to diversity has always 
been to follow a strict policy of sourcing  
the best person for the role irrespective  
of race, gender, age or disability. 
In 2011, we continued to run intern and 
cooperative programmes across all our 
businesses though primarily in the US. 
The cooperative programme implemented 
in our IMT business has been particularly 
successful in attracting young engineers 
from reputable universities who join our 
organisation for a period of three to 
six months to work on projects of real 
business need. In many cases these 
engineers return to us in subsequent years.
Employee Capability
Learning and development activity 
continued to take place in the local 
businesses in accordance with the personal 
development plans put in place in 2010, 
performance appraisals and organisational 
need. In 2011, the Organisation and Talent 
Review (OTR) was introduced in order to 
fully understand the organisation’s capacity 
and capability for achieving its strategic 
plans. The OTR enables the Operations 
Executive to create the leadership  
pipeline for its critical roles and specify  
the development requirements to be 
offered to employees. 
The performance appraisal process, in 
operation in each of the Divisions across 
the Group, provides the opportunity for the 
employee to discuss current performance 
and future potential in an objective and 
positive manner. The development needs 
identified by the discussions will be used in 
2012 to enhance the global programme of 
talent development for release more widely 
across the Group in the following year.
The design of a Group-wide programme of 
talent development aligned to the strategic 
business plans commenced in 2011 and 
will be launched at Vitec's management 
conference in early 2012.
Employee Engagement
We communicate with our employees  
on a regular basis keeping them informed 
on business performance at a Group, 
divisional and business unit level. In 2011 
all employees received the first global 
communication web broadcast from the 
Chief Executive. This covered progress 
to date since 2009 including the Group’s 
strategy and results for 2010, output 
from the 2011 management conference 
and recognition of key achievements by 
employees who had made a difference 
in 2010. Apart from Group level 
communications, employees receive 
briefings on performance and business 
issues on a regular basis from divisional 
and business unit senior management. 
This takes the form of company 
newsletters and breakfast meetings  
with divisional management.
Since 2010 the Imaging Division has run 
a programme called Manfrotto School of 
Xcellence – manfrottoschoolofxcellence.
com – for its employees that provides 
training, aims to teach the basics of 
photography and introduces them to the 
world of imaging. The programme involves 
professional photographers and educates 
employees about capturing excellent 
images. This involved over 90 employees 
in 2011, with several seminars on each 
aspect over the course of the year.
To enable our employees to participate  
in the Company, we offer an all-employee 
Sharesave scheme to our employees in 
the UK, US, Italy, Israel, Costa Rica  
and Germany. This covers around  
500 employees and has a good level of  
take-up giving employees the opportunity 
to make regular monthly savings to 
purchase shares in the Company.  48          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
We updated our Code of Business 
Conduct in 2011 (the Code) to reflect 
the implementation of the UK Bribery Act 
2010 and to provide clearer guidance to 
our employees on how they are expected 
to behave towards employees, suppliers, 
customers, shareholders and our wider 
responsibility to the communities within 
which we operate. The Code, which is 
available on our website, sets out our 
approach to business integrity including 
an express prohibition on bribery and 
kickbacks, guidance on gifts and 
hospitality, conflicts of interest, books 
and records, competition, share dealing, 
human rights, respect for the individual 
and privacy, diversity, health and safety, 
environmental sustainability, business 
partners, and charitable and  
political donations. 
To ensure that the Code is understood 
by our employees each employee has 
been given a copy and all new starters 
are provided with a copy. When new 
businesses have been acquired the Code 
has been rolled out to employees in those 
new businesses to ensure that a common 
Group-wide approach to business ethics  
is in place.
All employees are expected to comply  
with the Code and any violations of it  
are to be reported to local management  
or the Group Company Secretary  
for investigation.
A key development in 2011 was the 
coming into law of the UK Bribery Act 
2010. We have always had a prohibition  
on bribery as reflected in our Code. 
However, to give our employees a better 
understanding of the issues associated 
with bribery, including the many forms  
that it may take and the sanctions both  
to individuals and the Company we 
implemented an online training module for 
over 300 of our employees including the 
Board of Directors, Operations Executive, 
senior executives and customer facing 
employees covering anti-bribery and 
corruption. All participants were required  
to complete the module and to take a  
test on the issues covered by the training. 
This module will continue to be used for 
new starters and will be repeated in future 
years to ensure that employees remain 
aware of the issues. 
To further implement adequate procedures 
to deter bribery and corruption, we are in 
the process of communicating our Code 
on a risk-based approach to major suppliers, 
customers, agents and distributors with  
an express prohibition on bribery.
During 2011 we re-launched our 
independent whistleblowing service in 
conjunction with Expolink. This service 
enables any employee who feels that 
the normal reporting channels through 
line management are not appropriate, to 
confidentially report any issues around 
dishonesty, fraud, bribery, malpractice, 
bullying, unfair treatment, unsafe working 
practices or other contraventions of 
our Code. All such reports are notified 
to the Group Company Secretary, the 
Chief Executive and the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and are independently 
investigated by senior management who 
are not connected to the report. The 
outcome of investigations is reported to 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The re-launch involved the translation of 
communications to all employees in each 
territory of operation and posters on all 
staff notice boards. Again, the service  
is introduced to any new business  
when acquired. 
Community
& Charitable 
Donations 
Business  
Ethics
3 4
Our approach to community and charitable 
donations is to allow divisions and business 
units to make donations to local charitable 
causes that resonate with their businesses 
and employees and have close proximity 
to their operations. In 2011 the Company 
and its subsidiaries donated £152,143 to 
charitable and community-based causes 
(2010: £44,030). The following are a few 
examples of the good work being done  
by Vitec in the communities within which  
we operate.
The Head Office maintained its link with 
Kingston University’s Television and Video 
Technology department with a donation 
of £5,000 in 2011. This donation was 
part used to provide further broadcast 
equipment including some of the 
Company’s products giving over 200 
students the opportunity to use first-
hand the Company’s broadcast and 
photographic equipment including Vinten, 
Manfrotto and Autoscript products. 
Some of the donation was used for prize 
money for the best final year student film. 
The winner of the Vitec Group Prize in 
2011 was a film entitled “Sounds of the 
Campervan” and can be viewed on  
www.soundsofthecampervan.co.uk
Corporate Responsibility (continued) The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          49
The Services division based in Burbank, 
California supported several charitable 
causes including the loaning of broadcast 
equipment to support local schools and 
causes. The division made a total donation 
of $25,790 in 2011. This included the 
provision of a full broadcast technical 
system to support ESPN’s 2011 Jimmy 
Valvano Cancer Research Fundraiser. 
The division further donated an audio RF 
package and PA system for the Make A 
Wish Foundation Halloween Stuntacular.
Vitec Videocom based in Bury St Edmunds 
supports The William and Ellen Vinten Trust 
which is a charity set up by the founding 
family of the Vitec Group. It encourages 
education in engineering and the sciences 
and Vitec Videocom has given support in 
2011 to the value of £1,344.
Vitec Videocom in Costa Rica has provided 
support of $10,000 to the Odyssey 2050 
project which aims to engage young 
people worldwide and make them aware 
of the need to prevent dangerous climate 
change. This is achieved by the young 
people being involved in every aspect of 
making a movie about space travellers 
visiting a destroyed Planet Earth in 2050. 
The British Embassy in Costa Rica is 
involved with running the project and 
asked for Vitec Videocom’s support as a 
prominent UK business with operations in 
Costa Rica.
Anton Bauer and its employees raised 
$5,930 in 2011 for a local centre for The 
Hole in the Wall Gang, serving children and 
their families coping with serious illness.
Manfrotto Distribution US gave $10,000 
to the ESPY Celebrity Golf Classic where 
the funds raised went to the V Foundation 
for Cancer Research. They also donated 
$10,000 to the Samuel Goldstein sr. 
Endowment Fund for Education and 
$5,000 to Tzidkas Shaare Rahamim,  
a non-profit organisation that assists 
widows and orphans. 
Manfrotto Distribution US also contributed 
$1,000 to Michael Zide and his efforts 
to mitigate the effect of the Gulf oil spill 
on wildlife marshes and estuaries and, 
together with Manfrotto Bags, contributed 
to Wounded Nature, a non-profit 
organisation focused on cleaning  
beaches and promoting recycling.
Our employees in the US participated 
in a charity walk for Pancreatic Cancer 
Research and raised $2,918. They donated 
clothing and other material to the Mahwah 
Elves as well as food for the Center for 
Food Action, raising $2,815 in aid of those 
hit by hurricanes and snowstorms  
or families struggling due to the economy.
Manfrotto Distribution France donated  
e12,500 to the Louis Lumière photography 
school and Manfrotto Germany donated 
e5,500 in conjunction with support 
initiatives for children. 
Manfrotto Japan has organised a charity 
photo contest - Click for Hope - raising 
reconstruction funds for areas affected by 
the Great East Japan Earthquake.
Imaging Head Office, Italy worked with the 
local authorities in Bassano to organise a 
photographic show - Bassano Fotografia 
- in Bassano del Grappa from September 
2011 to January 2012 with the aim of 
enhancing the world of imaging locally. 
Famous photographers such as Bill Frakes, 
Harry de Zitter and Douglas Kirkland 
included some of their most celebrated 
photographs for the show. 
Imaging Head Office, Italy further raised 
e2,000 between employees and the 
Company through a charity football match 
organised by its employees with funds 
donated to the local volunteer ambulance 
service and Association for Leukemia.
Manfrotto Distribution UK donated 
£10,000 to the African Revival’s Zambia 
Bike Challenge with one of our employees 
cycling the 500km race. The initiative 
successfully raised £68,000 and will  
assist 250,000 adults and children.
Manfrotto Lighting in the UK (formerly 
Lastolite) donated £3,000 to Water Aid 
and a further £6,000 to Village of India, 
Reaching the Unreached, a UK registered 
charity that supports charitable work in 
India for the poor. Lastolite, before its 
acquisition by Vitec in March 2011, owned 
a small manufacturing operation in India 
and as a consequence supported this 
charity. Employees at Manfrotto Lighting 
wish to maintain that ongoing link.
The Staging business made donations 
in the US, UK and Italy of £2,340 in 
2011. Tomcat, based in Midland, Texas 
organised educational tours of its facility 
for local schools and international students 
to raise awareness of the business 
and its operations. It further provided 
support through an Executive Producer 
Sponsorship to the Kennedy Center 
American College Regional Festival.  
The support is used to provide the  
winning student with an award and  
help offset travel expenses for  
expositions and workshops. 
Employees at Brilliant Stages, based in 
Hitchin, Hertfordshire, raised money to 
make a donation to Garden House, a local 
hospice that provides care and support to 
patients from the local community with a 
terminal diagnosis. Brilliant Stages further 
provided support to a local music charity in 
2011 - Rhythms of the World 20th Festival 
- which provides a stimulus to arts in the 
North Hertfordshire region. 
IMT ran a full day in April 2011 in 
conjunction with the Take Our Daughters 
and Sons to Work Foundation, whereby 
employees’ children attended the IMT 
facility in New Jersey for a range of fun 
activities, to enable children to see their 
parents’ place of work and to build an 
understanding of business and commerce. 
IMT further hosts up to two students 
per semester in working assignments in 
conjunction with the New Jersey University 
Cooperative Student programme. 50          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Your Board, under my Chairmanship, 
is responsible to all Vitec stakeholders 
for providing strong leadership and 
effective decision-making to ensure the 
continued success of the Group and the 
implementation of our strategy. We strive 
to work in accordance with best corporate 
governance practice and evolve those 
practices and procedures to deliver 
long-term sustainable shareholder  
value. I believe it is important that you 
understand how the Board operates  
to achieve Vitec's continued success. 
Your Board has taken into account the UK Corporate  
Governance Code (the Code) as introduced in June 2010 and  
also the forthcoming changes to the Code including that of 
diversity. During 2011 we have taken positive steps to strengthen 
and refresh the composition of the Board with the appointment  
of John Hughes as an independent Non-Executive Director on  
11 March 2011. Carolyn Fairbairn joined as an independent 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2012. The  
Board is well structured with a broad range of skills and experience. 
The Board considered Lord Davies’ review, Women on Boards, 
and the issue of diversity and I am pleased to set out our 
statement below, which can also be found on our website.
Vitec recognises the importance of a fully diverse workforce in 
the successful delivery of its strategy. The effective use of all the 
skills and talents of our employees is encouraged and this extends 
to potential new employees. It is essential that the best person 
for the job is selected regardless of any discrimination including, 
but not limited to, grounds of race, gender, religion, age, sexual 
orientation, physical ability or nationality. Vitec is fully committed 
to equal opportunity where talent is recognised. The Board will 
keep under regular review the issue of diversity including at board, 
senior management level and throughout the entire workforce, 
taking into account amongst other things Lord Davies’ review 
Women on Boards. We will report upon this issue within our 
Corporate Governance statement annually in our Annual Report.
The Employees section of the Corporate Responsibility Report 
contains further information on this issue.
My governance review reports on how we have applied the Main 
Principles of the Code and I am pleased to confirm that we have 
complied with the relevant provisions of the Code, as required by 
the Listing Rules. 
Leadership
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the 
creation and delivery of strong, sustainable performance and 
the creation of long-term shareholder value. However, there are 
separate roles for each member of the Board and we have agreed 
a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief 
Executive. Full details of our respective roles and responsibilities 
can be found on our website. 
It is my responsibility to manage the Board. I work closely with the 
Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary to achieve this, 
ensuring that all Directors are kept advised of key developments, 
that they receive accurate, timely and clear information and that 
they actively participate in the decision-making process. Board 
agendas are reviewed and agreed in advance to ensure that each 
meeting utilises the Board’s time most efficiently. I encourage 
all Board members to openly and constructively challenge the 
proposals made by executive management led by the Chief 
Executive. I ensure that each Director properly exercises the  
Chairman Michael Harper explains 
Vitec's corporate governance 
Corporate Governance The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          51
power vested in them and in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association, relevant law and any directions as provided 
by the Company in general meeting. During the year there were  
no instances when a Director had to abstain from voting on a 
matter due to a conflict of interest, however, should this occur,  
the Board has adopted a formal procedure for dealing with 
conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the day-to-day 
running of the business. The Operations Executive supports the 
Chief Executive in this duty, the members of which are shown  
on page 25. The Chief Executive and I have continued to maintain 
a solid working relationship. Our relationship helps to underpin 
the working of the Board, providing for an open forum in which 
matters are discussed.
On appointment, each of the Non-Executive Directors, including 
myself, was considered independent. Following the retirement of 
Will Wyatt at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2011, a new 
Senior Independent Director was required to be appointed. After 
consideration of the independent Non-Executive Directors on 
the Board at that time, it was unanimously decided that this role 
would be best filled by Nigel Moore due to his experience with the 
Company. Nigel assumed the role of Senior Independent Director 
with effect from 19 May 2011. In his role, Nigel has provided 
support to the Chairman and Chief Executive, particularly in  
the area of succession planning for the Board.
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved to it, 
which includes, amongst other items: consideration and development 
of the Group’s strategy; setting of annual operating budgets; annual 
review of progress against strategy and budget; financial results, 
dividends and capital structure of the Company; risk management 
strategy and various statutory and regulatory approvals. During 
2011 the Matters Reserved to the Board were updated to ensure 
compliance with best practice. As part of this exercise we included 
the requirement that we conduct an externally facilitated evaluation 
of the Board at least every three years. The full schedule of Matters 
Reserved to the Board can be found on our website.
During 2011 the Board considered or monitored the following 
matters: financial results for 2010 and the half year results for 
2011 including associated dividends; potential acquisitions 
including the strategic fit of Lastolite and Haigh-Farr, associated 
financials and associated risks; long-term financing for the  
Group including a $75 million Private Placement shelf facility  
with Pricoa Capital Group Ltd and associated drawdown of  
$50 million; Board succession and related appointments; the 
Group’s strategy and 2012 budget; the output of an externally 
facilitated Boardroom evaluation; and on-going financial 
performance against agreed budgets.
To enable the Board to monitor its on-going performance during 
2011, the Board agreed several objectives for the year. These 
included: monitoring the development and implementation of the 
Three Market Strategy; development of the organisation structure; 
Board structure and composition; succession plans; development 
of investor relations; maintenance of governance standards 
including ethical standards for the Group including bribery; and 
considering the effectiveness and value added by the Board.  
The agreed objectives were reviewed at regular intervals during  
the course of 2011 to monitor progress and the Board will 
consider and agree upon further objectives for 2012. 
In addition to the matters reserved to itself, the Board delegates 
certain items to its principal Committees. I feel it is appropriate 
to ensure that the Board has sufficient time to deal with strategic 
matters while retaining oversight on salient points by virtue of its 
Committees. The Board’s three principal committees are the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations 
Committee. Each Committee operates under Terms of Reference 
which were updated during the year to take into account changes 
to the Code and best practice, reviewed and then approved by the 
Board. Copies of the current Terms of Reference are available on 
our website. Each Committee is authorised to seek any information 
it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform 
its duties and to obtain, at the Company’s expense, outside legal 
or other professional advice on any matter within its Terms of 
Reference. Each Committee, at least once a year, reviews its own 
performance, constitution and Terms of Reference to ensure it is 
operating at maximum effectiveness and recommends any changes 
it considers necessary to the Board for approval. To further enable 
the Remuneration and Audit Committees to monitor progress and 
performance, each Committee has agreed objectives for 2012 
which I will report on in next year's Annual Report.
In 2011 the Board met nine times, of which six were scheduled 
at the start of the year and three were held at short notice. Detail 
of Directors’ attendance at meetings is shown in the table on 
page 52 including any instance when a Director was unable to 
attend and the reason. When any Director is unable to attend 
they continue to receive the necessary papers in advance of the 
meeting and I seek to contact them to obtain their views and 
decisions on the proposals to be considered.
In June 2011 the Board met at the offices of IMT , a new facility in  
New Jersey, US. This visit allowed the Board to see the operations  
of the business first hand, to gain an in-depth understanding of IMT’ s 
operations and to meet management and employees. This built on 
the Board visit to Manfrotto in Italy in 2010. One Board meeting a year 
is scheduled to be held overseas in a Group business to increase 
knowledge of operations. Each Director is also encouraged to visit 
operations as and when appropriate to further their understanding  
of the business and to get to know operational management.
As part of the wider governance framework within which Vitec 
operates it is important to tell you about the workings of the 
Operations Executive. The members are detailed on page 25  
and comprise Vitec’s senior executives reporting to the Chief 
Executive. The Chief Executive chairs the monthly meetings  
of the Operations Executive which discusses ongoing  
business performance and enables the Chief Executive to  
run the business with his direct reports. I receive an update  
from the Chief Executive on any salient matters resulting from  
each meeting.  52          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
  Board Audit  Remuneration Nominations
Scheduled Special Scheduled Special Scheduled Special Scheduled Special
Number of meetings 6 3 3 - 3 2 1 -
Current Directors
Michael Harper 5/6* 3 - - - - 1 -
Simon Beresford-Wylie 6 3 3 - 3 2 1 -
Stephen Bird 6 3 - - - - 1 -
Paul Hayes***  
(appointed 13 June 2011)
 
4/4
 
2/2
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
John Hughes***  
(appointed 11 March 2011)
 
4/5**
 
2/3**
 
1/2**
 
-
 
2/2
 
0/2**
 
1
-
Nigel Moore 6 3 3 - 3 2 1 -
Maria Richter 6 3 3 - 3 2 1 -
Former directors who served  
during 2011
Richard Cotton***  
(until 4 February 2011)
 
0/0
 
0/0
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
Will Wyatt*** 
(until 19 May 2011)
 
2/2
 
1/1
 
1/1
 
1/1
 
1/1
 
-
 
-
 
-
I was pleased to welcome members of the Operations Executive 
to a number of Board and Committee meetings throughout 
the year, along with the Group Risk Assurance Manager. Their 
attendance allows the Board to directly question those senior 
managers responsible for the business and to gain a better 
understanding of their respective businesses. This practice  
will continue in the future.
Effectiveness
The past year has seen several changes to the Board. Richard 
Cotton left on 4 February 2011 and Will Wyatt retired at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2011. 
John Hughes was appointed as an independent Non-Executive 
Director on 11 March 2011 and Paul Hayes as Group Finance 
Director on 13 June 2011. On 9 November 2011 we announced 
that Carolyn Fairbairn would join the Board on 1 February 2012 
as an independent Non-Executive Director. During the transitional 
phase between Richard Cotton’s departure and Paul Hayes 
joining as Group Finance Director we were supported by Nick 
Humby in the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer. 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five independent 
Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors; a mix that  
is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group. The Non-
Executive Directors bring independent character and judgement 
to bear on strategic matters, the performance of the Group, the 
adequacy of resources and standards of conduct. The Board 
considers that Simon Beresford-Wylie, Maria Richter, Nigel 
Moore, John Hughes and Carolyn Fairbairn are independent in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Code. Each Director 
brings a complementary set of skills to the Board, having served 
in companies of varying size, complexity and industries. When 
combined these skills give your Board a comprehensive skill set to 
enable them to achieve the strategic objectives of the Group and 
to ensure its continued success. 
 
On appointment, we provide each Director with a tailored and 
extensive induction to the Group. This includes meeting with 
each of their fellow Board members, the Operations Executive 
and advisors individually, receiving briefings on each area of the 
business in turn and visiting the Group’s principal operations.
  
All Directors, having notified me in the first instance, are able  
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties. During 2011 no Director  
felt the need to take such advice. They also have access to the 
advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is 
responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman,  
on all governance matters.
Corporate Governance (continued)
*  Michael Harper did not attend the scheduled Board meeting in December 2011 due to surgery.
**  John Hughes did not attend the scheduled Board meeting in June 2011, the ad-hoc Board meeting in September 2011 or the ad-hoc Remuneration  
 Committee meetings in June and September 2011 due to commitments that existed before he joined the Board on 11 March 2011.
*** Where a director either joined or left the Board part way through the year the attendance and number of possible meetings they could have attended is shown. 
2011 Board and Committee Meeting Attendance The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          53
On-going training for new Directors and existing Directors is 
available at the request of the Director. Each Director receives 
details of relevant training and development courses from both 
the Group Company Secretary and from external bodies such 
as KPMG and Deloitte. The requirement for training is regularly 
discussed at meetings of the Board and of its Committees and  
I ensure that each Director has the required skills and knowledge 
to enable them to operate efficiently on the Board. The Group 
Company Secretary maintains a register of training undertaken 
by directors to facilitate this discussion. During the year the 
Board collectively received training sessions on such matters 
as anti-bribery and corruption, remuneration trends, corporate 
governance and emerging accounting issues.
I, working with the Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary, 
ensure that the Board receives papers for consideration so 
that it gives all Board members adequate time to read and, 
where appropriate, ask questions prior to the meeting about 
the information supplied. The information includes sufficiently 
detailed budgets, strategy papers, reviews of the Group’s financial 
position and operating performance and annual and half-yearly 
reports. Each Board member receives on a monthly basis a set 
of management papers, including reports from the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Company Secretary  
and Group Head of Business Development, plus a Health and 
Safety Report covering the ongoing performance of the business.  
The Board receives further information from time to time as  
and when requested. 
All meetings of the Board and its Committees (Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations) are minuted. In the first instance, 
minutes are reviewed by the Chairman of that meeting before 
being circulated to all Directors in attendance and then tabled 
for approval at the subsequent meeting. Any concerns raised by 
Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes of each meeting.
Board performance evaluation
We conducted our first externally facilitated evaluation of the  
Board and its Committees during 2011 under the recommendation 
contained in the Code. The evaluation was facilitated by Consilium 
Board Review, who do not have any other connection with the 
Company. This appointment was made taking into account the 
experience of Consilium and recommendations from several  
other companies who have used Consilium for their Board 
evaluation process. 
The evaluation aimed to determine the Directors’ views of the 
Board’s and its Committees’ performance and effectiveness  
and to identify potential improvements including those perceived 
by Consilium. The process lasted for several months and  
covered a review of Board minutes, agendas and key papers;  
a questionnaire; observation of one Board meeting; and interviews 
with 10 participants. Input from the Operations Executive  
was also sought through a discussion at one of its meetings.  
Consilium presented their findings to the October 2011  
Board meeting. 
I then worked with the Chief Executive and the Group  
Company Secretary to produce actions to address the 
recommendations made.
The review identified that, overall, the Board was functional  
and highly effective. The Senior Independent Director reported  
to the Board that my performance has been deemed effective.  
The Board as a whole is sound and capable, particularly relative  
to the Group’s size, and Directors are fully committed, including 
their time commitment to meetings. The report concluded that 
each Director had made an important contribution at one time  
or another over the last three years; a finding that I concur with. 
The Audit Committee is seen as exemplary and diligently led by 
Nigel Moore. It was recognised that I work well with the Chief 
Executive and we demonstrate mutual respect. Robust Board 
processes, governance and controls remained in place.
Notwithstanding this, and in the context of the emerging strategic 
and organisational challenges, there were several areas where 
more focus was needed or where some modest changes should 
be considered. 
The Board and I are reviewing the output of the evaluation and 
implementing a number of initiatives to address each of the 
recommendations. Progress has already been made on several 
of these including the appointment of Carolyn Fairbairn with 
effect from 1 February 2012, change in remuneration advisor and 
associated consultation with major shareholders on executive 
remuneration and a revised monthly report management pack.  
We will report fully on progress against each in the 2012  
Annual Report.
Performance evaluations of each of the Executive Directors also 
took place against achievement of specific personal objectives, 
the result of which can be found in the Remuneration Report in 
respect of the outcome on their annual bonus.
The Code recommends that externally facilitated evaluations take 
place at least every three years. 
Given the recent changes to the Board and this year’s evaluation,  
I anticipate that we will conduct an internal review of the Board 
and its committees during 2012, reporting on this in next year’s 
Annual Report. 54          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Board has power at any time and from time to time to appoint 
any person to be a Director, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an 
addition to the existing Board, subject to a maximum number of 
15 Directors. Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until 
the next Annual General Meeting and shall then put him or herself 
forward to be re-appointed by the members.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial period of three years which, with the 
approval of the Nominations Committee and the Board, would 
normally be extended for a further three years. Appointments of 
Non-Executive Directors may be extended beyond six years, with 
the approval of the Nominations Committee, the Board and the 
individual Director concerned, if it is in the interests of the Group  
to do so. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, each 
Director is required to stand for annual re-election. Full details  
are included within the 2012 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Board has appointed a dedicated committee to oversee  
the composition of the Board, succession and the process for 
appointments. The Nominations Committee, that is chaired by 
myself, has agreed terms of reference that are available on the 
Company’s website. The Nominations Committee considers the 
skills on the Board, independence of Non-Executive Directors, 
diversity and succession plans to ensure that the right balance  
of skills are in place to deliver on the agreed strategy for the 
Group. The Nominations Committee uses the support of external 
executive search consultancies to facilitate searches for new 
Directors. A clear brief on the role, skills and personal attributes 
required is prepared and a search process is conducted by the 
consultancy. Each member of the Board has the opportunity to 
meet with preferred candidates to ensure that the correct person 
with the right skills and dynamic fit with the Board is achieved 
whether the role be executive or non-executive in nature. The 
process is led by myself as Chairman of the Committee, unless the 
search is connected with the role of Chairman, in which case the 
process is led by the Senior Independent Director with the support 
of the Chief Executive. Subject to the outcome of each search,  
a formal recommendation on an appointment is made to the full 
Board for approval. During 2011, this process was followed for the 
appointments of John Hughes, Paul Hayes and Carolyn Fairbairn.
The Nominations Committee has further considered the issue 
of the executive talent management and succession within the 
executive management team. 
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Simon Beresford-
Wylie and comprises exclusively Non-Executive Directors.  
The Chairman, Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the  
Group Company Secretary are invited to each meeting. The 
Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the setting 
of a remuneration framework or broad policy for the Company’s 
Chief Executive, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary and such other members of the executive management 
as it is designated to consider. The Committee’s full Terms of 
Reference can be found on our website.
An overview of the Remuneration Committee is set out on the 
table on page 55. The Remuneration Report for the year ended  
31 December 2011 on pages 31 to 41 gives full detail on 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors' remuneration.
Corporate Governance (continued)
Chairman Members
Michael Harper Simon Beresford-Wylie
Stephen Bird
Carolyn Fairbairn (from 1 February 2012)
John Hughes (from 11 March 2011)
Nigel Moore
Maria Richter
Will Wyatt (until 19 May 2011)
Duties Activities completed in 2011
•  Reviews and evaluates the structure, 
size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity) of the Board
•  Considers succession planning for 
directors and other senior executives
•  Identifies and nominates to the Board  
candidates for Board vacancies
•  Prepares descriptions of roles and 
capabilities required for Board 
appointments
•  Reviews the executive and non-
executive leadership needs of the 
Company
•  Reviews time commitment of Non-
Executive Directors
•  Ensures that Non-Executive Directors 
receive a formal letter of appointment
•  Considered Board and senior 
executive succession planning 
•  Used the services of an external 
search consultancy to facilitate 
the search for a new Group 
Finance Director and Non-
Executive Directors
•  Recommended the 
appointments of John Hughes  
as a Non-Executive Director,  
Paul Hayes as Group Finance 
Director, and Carolyn Fairbairn  
as a Non-Executive Director 
•  Reported to the Board after  
each meeting
•  Reviewed plans for the  
executive level talent 
management programme
Overview of the Nominations Committee The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          55
Accountability
Internal control and risk management
The Board and Audit Committee are responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets. However, any system can only provide 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. As 
part of its responsibility, the Board regularly, and at least annually, 
reviews the effectiveness of its internal controls. There are systems 
and procedures in place for internal controls that are designed to 
provide reasonable control over the activities of the Group and 
to enable the Board to fulfil its legal responsibility for the keeping 
of proper accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and detecting fraud and other irregularities. However, it is 
recognised that it is in the nature of any business that business 
and commercial risks must be taken and that for a business to 
succeed, enterprise, initiative and the motivation of employees are 
key elements that must not be unduly stifled. It is not our intention 
to avoid all commercial risks and commercial judgements will have 
to be made in the course of the management of the business.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing the 
system of internal controls. The application and process followed  
by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls during the year were as follows:
• Each business unit is charged with the ongoing responsibility for 
identifying risks facing each of the businesses and for putting in 
place procedures to monitor and manage risks. 
• This system has been in place for the year under review and up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
• The responsibilities of the senior management at each business 
unit to manage risks within their businesses are periodically 
reinforced by the Operations Executive. 
• Major commercial, technological and financial risks to the Group are 
formally assessed during the annual long-term business planning 
process around mid-year. These plans and the attendant risks to 
the Group are reviewed and considered by the Board. 
• Large capital projects, product development projects and 
acquisitions and disposals require Board approval. 
• The process by which the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of internal controls has been agreed by the Board and 
documented. This involves regular reviews by the Board of the 
major business risks of the Group, together with the controls in 
place to manage those risks. In addition, each year businesses 
conduct a self assessment of their internal controls. The results  
of these assessments are reviewed by the Group Risk Assurance 
Manager who provides a report to the Group Finance Director 
and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Board is 
made aware of any significant matters arising from the self 
assessments. The risk and control identification and certification 
process is monitored and periodically reviewed by Group 
financial management. 
• A centralised database of risks facing the Group, as well as 
each individual business, and an evaluation of the impact and 
likelihood of those risks is maintained and updated regularly  
by the Group Risk Assurance Manager.
• The Board has established a control framework within which  
the Group operates. This contains the following key elements: 
 -  organisational structure with clearly defined lines of 
responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements; 
 -  defined expenditure authorisation levels; 
 -  operational reviews covering all aspects of each business are 
conducted by Group executive management on a regular basis 
throughout the year; 
 -   comprehensive system of financial reporting. The annual 
budget and long-term plan of each operating company  
are reviewed in detail and committed to by the Operations 
Executive and then approved by the Chief Executive and 
Board. The Board approves the overall Group’s budget  
and plans. Monthly actual results are reported against  
prior year and monthly budgets and latest forecasts.  
These forecasts are revised where necessary but formally  
at least once every quarter. Any significant changes and 
adverse variances are reviewed by the Chief Executive and  
Operations Executive and remedial action is taken where 
appropriate. Group tax and treasury is co-ordinated centrally. 
There is regular cash and treasury reporting to Group financial 
management and monthly reporting to the Board on the 
Group’s tax and treasury position. 
Chairman Members
Simon Beresford-Wylie Carolyn Fairbairn (from 1 February 2012)
John Hughes (from 11 March 2011)
Nigel Moore
Maria Richter 
Will Wyatt (until 19 May 2011)
Duties Activities completed in 2011
•  Determining and agreeing with 
the Board the broad framework or 
policies for Board and executive  
level remuneration
•  Ensuring executive management are 
provided with appropriate incentives 
to encourage enhanced performance
•  Reviewing performance-related pay 
schemes and ensuring their structure 
encourages long-term growth for  
the Company
•   Reviewing on-going appropriateness 
of remuneration policy
•   Reviewing the design of all share 
incentive plans
•   Reviewing pension arrangements for 
executive management
•  Reviewing remuneration trends and 
major changes in employee benefits 
across the Group
•  Ensuring full disclosure is made 
regarding remuneration in the 
Company’s Annual Report
•   Ensuring advice is obtained from 
appropriate sources 
•  2010 bonus plan outcome
•  2011 annual bonus plan 
structure
•  Executive Directors’ personal 
objectives and long-term 
incentive awards
•  2010 Remuneration Committee 
report
•  Rebalancing of Executive 
Directors’ and Operations 
Executive’s remuneration and 
long-term incentives
•  Appointed new remuneration 
advisors
Overview of the Remuneration Committee 56          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Group’s internal audit function, led by the Group Risk 
Assurance Manager, conducted a number of audits and additional 
assurance reviews during 2011, the details of which were 
presented to the Audit Committee. The audits covered matters 
such as HR processes, IT, payroll, purchasing and payments, 
sales and receivables and segregation of duties. An internal  
audit plan for 2012 has been drafted and agreed with the  
Audit Committee.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the Code 
during the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts and that it accords with Turnbull guidance, 
in respect of internal controls.
Audit Committee
The Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore, who has been the 
Chairman of the Committee since March 2004. Nigel Moore 
has recent and relevant financial experience having formerly 
been a London based partner of Ernst & Young where he was 
client service partner for London International PLC and the UK 
operations of Coca Cola. The other members of the Committee 
are set out below and each is considered independent. The 
Committee considers that its members have a wide skill set 
covering financial, commercial and operational matters. 
The Company’s external auditors, KPMG, are invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee on a regular basis and during 2011 
they attended all meetings; in each case for part of the meeting. 
The Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group 
Risk Assurance Manager attend meetings by invitation. Other 
members of the senior management team attend as required.  
At two of the meetings the Executive Directors were not present 
for part of the meeting so that members of the Committee could 
meet with the external auditors in private. The practice of the 
Committee meeting in private with the external auditors will 
continue in the future.
Corporate Governance (continued)
Chairman Members
Nigel Moore Simon Beresford-Wylie
Carolyn Fairbairn (from 1 February 2012) 
John Hughes (from 11 March 2011)
Maria Richter
Will Wyatt (until 19 May 2011)
Duties Activities completed in 2011
•  Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, 
including its annual and half-yearly reports, results announcements, 
interim management statements and any other formal announcement 
relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgments contained in them
•  Keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management systems
•  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
audit function
•   Reviewing the statements to be included in the annual report 
concerning internal controls and risk management
•   Reviewing the Company’s whistleblowing arrangements
•   Reviewing the Company’s systems and controls for the prevention of 
bribery and receiving reports on non-compliance
•   Overseeing the work of the internal audit function
•  Considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Company’s 
external auditors
•  Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including 
its remuneration and fees for non-audit services, terms of its 
engagement, assessing annually its independence and objectivity, 
its compliance with ethical and professional standards taking into 
account relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements 
•  Ensuring the external audit is co-ordinated with the activities of the 
internal audit arrangements
•  Reviewing the audit plan, the resulting findings and the effectiveness 
of the audit
•  Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services and to report to the 
Board any matters that require action or improvement
•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board the financial results and accounting 
disclosures in connection with the full-year results for the year ended 31 
December 2010 and the half-year results for the period ended 30 June 2011
•  Monitored ongoing performance for internal controls for the Group
•  Received regular reports from the external auditor on accounting issues 
•  Considered the scope and associated fee for the audit in connection with the 
year-end audit for 31 December 2011
•  Met with the external auditors without the Executive Directors present to 
discuss any issues arising from the audit
•  Received training from the external auditors on future accounting 
developments
•  Reviewed the Group’s position as a going concern
•  Agreed a set of objectives for implementation in 2012
•  Renewed the Company’s whistleblowing procedures and instructed the Group 
Company Secretary to circulate to all employees globally
•  Reviewed the requirements of the UK Bribery Act on behalf of the Board, 
implemented training for senior employees on its content, conducted risk 
assessments of the Group’s operations, conducted due diligence on its 
agents and third party suppliers and recommended that the Board adopt a 
revised Code of Business Conduct for the Group
•  Reviewed a revised risk register for the Group to show risks from both a 
Group and business perspective
Overview of the Audit Committee The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011          57
The Audit Committee operates under Terms of Reference which 
can be found on our website.
A policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services 
has been in place for a number of years. The use of the external 
auditors is determined by their demonstrable competence and 
competitive pricing. The policy is divided into three parts:
•  Work where use of the external auditors is deemed appropriate: 
This type of work includes corporate tax advice and planning, 
tax compliance, accounting advice in relation to acquisitions, 
dividend planning, divestments, corporate governance/
risk management advice and defined audit related work and 
regulatory reporting. 
•  Work requiring Audit Committee clearance or refinement of 
the Vitec Group policy: This type of work includes reporting 
accounting services, compliance services (including fraud and 
money laundering), transaction work (mergers and acquisitions), 
valuation and actuarial services, fairness opinions and 
contribution in kind reports, personal tax services, management 
consultancy, HR or recruitment services, remuneration 
consultancy and legal or other professional services unrelated  
to an audit. 
•  Work from which the external auditors are excluded: This 
includes internal accounting or other internal financial services, 
design development or implementation of financial information 
or internal controls systems, internal audit services or their 
outsourcing, forensic accounting services, executive or 
management roles and functions, IT consultancy, litigation 
support services and other financial services such as broker, 
financial adviser or investment banking services. 
During 2011, the policy has been followed.
Relations with Shareholders
I continue to recognise the importance of maintaining regular 
contact with our shareholders to ensure that our business,  
strategy and remuneration policies are understood and that any 
concerns are addressed in a constructive way. Establishing and 
maintaining reliable lines of communication, even when there 
are no particular issues of concern for shareholders, is a key 
part of corporate governance. I welcome the introduction of 
the Stewardship Code as introduced in 2010, which has led to 
greater engagement between our institutional shareholders and 
the Company. Notably at our Annual General Meeting on 19 
May 2011, 83.9% of our issued share capital was voted by way 
of proxies submitted. This is significantly up on prior years and 
demonstrates a good level of engagement with shareholders. 
 
The Board communicates with its shareholders through a 
combination of public announcements through the London Stock 
Exchange, analyst briefings, roadshows and press interviews at 
the time of the announcements of the half-year and full-year results 
and, when appropriate, at other times in the year. The Executive 
Directors, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also meet with 
investors from time to time to discuss relevant matters. 
In October 2011 we hosted an Investor Day for our key institutional 
shareholders which was also attended by the Board, Operations 
Executive and key Vitec employees. Attendees were provided with 
an update on the Company’s strategy and heard presentations 
from members of the Operations Executive on progress within 
each of the divisions and individual products. Copies of the 
presentation slides used are available on our website.
Regular updates from the Chief Executive at Board meetings  
keep the Board advised of the views of major shareholders.  
We also receive monthly reports on market and investor sentiment 
along with a full shareholder analysis.
The Annual General Meeting offers an opportunity for our 
shareholders, particularly private shareholders, to meet with  
our Directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to ask 
questions about the business. I confirm that all Board members  
are scheduled to attend the forthcoming AGM, including each of 
the Committee Chairmen.
Each year, the Company sends to its shareholders an Annual 
Report. Copies of this, public announcements and financial results 
are published on the Company’s website, www.vitecgroup.com, 
along with a number of other investor relations tools, including 
information on how to invest in the Company’s shares, a dividend 
chart, share prices and presentation materials used for key 
shareholder presentations.
At general meetings of shareholders, the level of proxy votes 
received, together with the numbers of votes in favour, against  
and withheld, is announced after each resolution has been dealt 
with on a show of hands. Separate resolutions are proposed  
for each issue upon which shareholders are asked to vote.  
The Group’s website contains details of the 2011 Annual  
General Meeting resolutions and the voting thereon.
To allow shareholders to review the Annual Report in advance of 
the Annual General Meeting and create an informed view of the 
Company, we comply with the requirement set out in the Code 
in respect of shareholders meetings to send the notice of Annual 
General Meeting and related papers at least 20 working days 
before the meeting and we will continue to comply with  
this requirement.
Going concern
The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and consider  
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in  
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly,  
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Michael Harper 
Chairman
29 February 2012 58          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Independent Auditors’ Report to  
the members of The Vitec Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of The Vitec Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2011. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group 
financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation  
of the parent company financial statements is applicable law  
and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company's members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement 
set out on pages 29 and 30, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board's (APB's) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB's website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/
private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group's and of the parent company's affairs as at  
31 December 2011 and of the Group's profit for the year  
then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted  
Accounting Practice;
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•  the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the Directors' statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going 
concern;
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
50 to 57 relating to the Company's compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for 
our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors' remuneration.
Robert Brent (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
London
29 February 2012 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         59
Introduction and table of contents
Primary Statements ................................................................60
    Consolidated Income Statement ............................60 
    Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ..61 
    Consolidated Balance Sheet ..................................62 
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity ........63 
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows..................64
Section 1 – Basis of preparation ...........................................65
Section 2 – Results for the year ............................................67
    2.1 Profit before tax ..............................................67
    2.2 Significant items .............................................70
    2.3 Net finance expense .......................................70
    2.4 T ax .................................................................71
    2.5 Earnings per share .........................................74
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities .........................75
    3.1 Intangible assets.............................................75
    3.2 Property, plant and equipment ........................78
    3.3 Working capital ...............................................80
    3.4 Acquisitions ....................................................82
    3.5 Provisions .......................................................85
Section 4 – Capital structure .................................................86
    4.1 Net debt .........................................................86
    4.2 Financial instruments ......................................87 
    4.3 Share capital and reserves..............................92
Section 5 – Other supporting notes ......................................93
    5.1 Employees .....................................................93
    5.2 Pensions ........................................................94
    5.3 Share-based payments ..................................98
    5.4 Leases .........................................................100
    5.5 Related party transactions ............................101
    5.6 Principal Group investments .........................102
    5.7 Subsequent events.......................................102
The Vitec Group plc Company financial statements .........103
    Company Balance Sheet .....................................103
    Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds .104
    Notes to the Company financial statements .........105
Five Year Financial Summary ..............................................110
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar ..............111
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in producing  
these notes together with any key judgements and estimates 
used. Text boxes provide an introduction to each section.
We have updated the format and layout of these  
financial statements following the principles outlined  
in the Financial Reporting Council’s publication “Cutting 
Clutter - Combatting clutter in annual reports”. This is  
to make our financial statements less complex and  
more relevant to shareholders. 
The notes are grouped under the following sections: 60          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
      2011   2010 
     Before   Before   
     Significant Significant  Significant Significant  
     items items
(1)
 Total items items
(1)
 Total 
    Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    2.1 351.0 - 351.0 309.6 - 309.6
Cost of sales     (204.9) - (204.9) (183.1) (1.3) (184.4)
Gross profit     146.1 - 146.1 126.5 (1.3) 125.2
Other operating income     - - - - 5.2 5.2
Operating expenses    2.1/2.2 (111.6) (9.2) (120.8) (98.8) (9.0) (107.8)
Operating profit/(loss)    2.1 34.5 (9.2) 25.3 27.7 (5.1) 22.6
Finance income     3.1 - 3.1 3.1 0.1 3.2
Finance costs     (4.6) - (4.6) (4.1) - (4.1)
Net finance expense    2.3 (1.5) - (1.5) (1.0) 0.1 (0.9)
Profit/(loss) before tax     33.0 (9.2) 23.8 26.7 (5.0) 21.7
Taxation    2.4 (10.8) 2.0 (8.8) (8.8) 5.4 (3.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent   22.2 (7.2) 15.0 17.9 0.4 18.3
Earnings per share    2.5      
Basic earnings per share       34.7p   42.8p
Diluted earnings per share       33.9p   41.9p
Average exchange rates        
Euro       1.15   1.17
US Dollar       1.60   1.55
(1) 
See Note 2.2 Significant items.
Consolidated Income Statement  
 For the year ended 31 December 2011 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         61
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income  
 For the year ended 31 December 2011
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Profit for the year         15.0 18.3
Other comprehensive income:  
Actuarial gain on pension obligations, net of tax        0.4 2.5
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries       0.1 1.5
Net loss on designated effective net investment hedges        (0.2) (1.1)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges, net of tax      0.5 (0.7)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges       (1.3) -
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent      14.5 20.5 62          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
         2011 2010 
        Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets        3.1 75.0 51.8
Property, plant and equipment        3.2 50.1 53.4
Trade and other receivables        3.3 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax assets        2.4 15.8 22.6
           141.3 128.2
Current assets   
Inventories        3.3 66.4 55.4
Trade and other receivables        3.3 50.7 45.4
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 0.3 0.9
Current tax assets        2.4 0.8 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents        4.1 6.9 7.7
           125.1 109.7
Total assets         266.4 237.9
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Bank overdrafts        4.1 0.7 1.0
Trade and other payables        3.3 58.3 49.7
Derivative financial instruments        4.2 1.6 1.0
Current tax liabilities        2.4 7.4 9.4
Provisions        3.5 4.1 4.6
           72.1 65.7
Non-current liabilities   
Bank loans        4.1 56.6 34.8
Other payables        3.3 1.2 1.5
Post-employment obligations        5.2 4.9 7.0
Provisions        3.5 1.6 2.2
Deferred tax liabilities        2.4 0.7 2.4
           65.0 47.9
Total liabilities         137.1 113.6
Net assets         129.3 124.3
Equity   
Share capital         8.7 8.6
Share premium         9.8 9.6
Translation reserve         5.8 5.9
Capital redemption reserve         1.6 1.6
Cash flow hedging reserve         (0.9) (0.1)
Retained earnings         104.3 98.7
Total equity        4.3 129.3 124.3
Balance Sheet exchange rates   
Euro         1.20 1.17
US Dollar         1.55 1.57
Approved by the Board on 29 February 2012 and signed on its behalf by:    
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2011 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         63
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
       Capital Cash flow   
    Share Share Translation redemption hedging Retained Total 
    capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2011    8.6 9.6 5.9 1.6 (0.1) 98.7 124.3
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 15.0 15.0
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial gain on pension obligations, net of tax   - - - - - 0.4 0.4
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries  - - 0.1 - - - 0.1
Net loss on designated effective net investment hedges   - - (0.2) - - - (0.2)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges, 
net of tax    - - - - 0.5 - 0.5
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  - - - - (1.3) - (1.3)
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (8.2) (8.2)
Own shares (Employee Benefit Trust) purchased   - - - - - (2.8) (2.8)
Share-based payment charge    - - - - - 1.2 1.2
New shares issued    0.1 0.2 - - - - 0.3
Balance at 31 December 2011    8.7 9.8 5.8 1.6 (0.9) 104.3 129.3
        
Balance at 1 January 2010    8.6 9.0 5.5 1.6 0.6 85.9 111.2
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 18.3 18.3
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial gain on pension obligations, net of tax   - - - - - 2.5 2.5
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries  - - 1.5 - - - 1.5
Net loss on designated effective net investment hedges   - - (1.1) - - - (1.1)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges, 
net of tax    - - - - (0.7) - (0.7)
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (7.9) (7.9)
Own shares (Employee Benefit Trust) purchased   - - - - - (1.1) (1.1)
Share-based payment charge    - - - - - 1.0 1.0
New shares issued    - 0.6 - - - - 0.6
Balance at 31 December 2010    8.6 9.6 5.9 1.6 (0.1) 98.7 124.3 64          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 For the year ended 31 December 2011
         2011 2010 
        Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year         15.0 18.3
Adjustments for:    
  Taxation         8.8 3.4
  Depreciation         13.2 13.6
  Amortisation of intangible assets         4.9 9.0
  Impairment losses         5.2 0.2
  Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software      (2.6) (1.1)
  Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments       (0.1) 0.3
  Share-based payment charge         1.2 1.0
  Transaction costs relating to acquisitions        0.8 -
  Profit on disposal of business         - (2.2)
  Curtailment gain on UK defined benefit pension scheme       - (3.0)
  Financial income         (3.1) (3.2)
  Financial expense         4.6 4.1
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions       47.9 40.4
(Increase)/decrease in inventories         (8.4) (6.9)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables         (3.2) (2.6)
Increase/(decrease) in payables         6.0 7.7
(Decrease)/increase in provisions         (2.4) (4.0)
Cash generated from operating activities         39.9 34.6
Interest paid         (1.8) (1.2)
Tax paid         (11.1) (0.9)
Net cash from operating activities         27.0 32.5
Cash flows from investing activities    
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment        6.4 2.0
Purchase of property, plant and equipment         (13.7) (13.8)
Capitalisation of intangible assets         (2.4) (2.7)
Contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries        - (2.5)
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       3.4 (28.7) -
Proceeds from disposal of business         - 7.1
Net cash used in investing activities         (38.4) (9.9)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from the issue of shares         0.3 0.6
Purchase of own shares by Employee Benefit Trust        (2.8) (1.1)
Proceeds from/(repayment of) bank loans         21.6 (19.0)
Dividends paid         (8.2) (7.9)
Net cash used in financing activities         10.9 (27.4)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents        4.1 (0.5) (4.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January         6.7 12.1
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        - (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December        6.2 6.7 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         65
Section 1 – Basis of preparation
This section lays out the Group’s accounting policies that 
relate to the financial statements as a whole. Where an 
accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is 
described in the note to which it relates. 
The Vitec Group plc (the Company) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2011 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred  
to as the Group).
As required by EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002), the  
Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by  
the EU (‘IFRS’), and have been approved by the Directors.
The financial statements are principally prepared on the basis of 
historical cost. Areas where other bases are applied are identified  
in the accounting policy outlined in the relevant note.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP . 
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Directors’ Report. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review. In addition, Note 4.2 “Financial 
Instruments” includes the Group’s financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, including 
undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year of £98.3 million 
(see Note 4.2 “Financial Instruments”). The Directors believe that 
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue  
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled 
by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to 
obtain benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries sold or 
acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial 
statements up to, or from, the date that control exists.
Foreign Currencies
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling 
with the reporting currency of the Group’s subsidiaries generally 
being that of the local country. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated 
at the year-end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in 
the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year-end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such 
differences are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost 
are translated at the exchange rate on the day of the transaction, 
unless they are stated at fair value in which case they are 
translated at the exchange rate of the day the fair value  
was determined.
The assets and liabilities of overseas companies, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation,  
are translated at the year-end exchange rate. 
The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated 
at the weighted average exchange rate for the year. Where 
differences arise between these rates, they are recognised  
in the translation reserve within Equity and Other  
Comprehensive Income. 
The cash flows of these companies are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rate for the year. 
In the consolidated financial statements, currency translation 
gains and losses on inter-company loans are recognised directly 
in the translational reserve within Equity and Other Comprehensive 
Income, if they form part of a net investment hedge. 
In respect of all overseas companies, only those translation 
differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition 
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity. On 
disposal of such a company, the related translation reserve is 
released to the Income Statement as part of the gain or loss  
on disposal. 66          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 1 – Basis of preparation continued
 
Critical accounting judgements and estimates
The following provides information on those policies that the 
Directors consider critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding 
future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The 
Directors review the judgements and estimates on an ongoing 
basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the 
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods 
affected. The Directors believe that the consolidated financial 
statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and 
provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and 
financial position.
Pension benefits
The actuarial valuations associated with the pension schemes 
involve making assumptions about discount rates, expected 
rates of return on assets, future salary increases, future pension 
increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are reviewed at 
each reporting date. Further details about the assumptions  
used are set out in Note 5.2 “Pensions”.
Impairment testing
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment 
are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including 
discount rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently 
subjective. Details about the assumptions used are set out in  
Note 3.1 “Intangible assets”.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method, 
based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and 
liabilities are measured at fair value and the purchase price is 
allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.  
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets  
as part of a business combination. The methods used to value 
such intangible assets require the use of estimates including 
forecast performance. Accordingly, determining the fair values 
of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant 
estimates and assumptions (including discount rates, asset  
lives and recoverability). Details concerning the acquisitions  
made in the year are set out in Note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. 
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in 
determining the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
Tax benefits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against 
which temporary differences and unused tax losses can be 
utilised.  Details on the tax charge and assets and liabilities 
recorded are set out in Note 2.4 “Tax”.
Application of new or amended EU endorsed accounting 
standards
A number of amendments to published standards and 
interpretations are effective for the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2011. The Group has reviewed the effect of  
these amendments and interpretations, and has concluded  
that they have no material impact on these consolidated  
financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended  
31 December 2011, and have not been adopted early in preparing 
these consolidated financial statements. None of these are 
anticipated to have any material impact on these consolidated 
financial statements. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         67
This section focuses on the profitability of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures relating  
to the following:  
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)  
2.2 Significant items   
2.3 Net finance expense   
2.4 T ax   
2.5 Earnings per share
2.1 Profit before tax (including segmental information)
This shows the analysis of the Group’s profit before tax by reference to its three divisions. Further segmental information  
and an analysis of key operating expenses is also shown here. 
Accounting policies
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and consists of sales to third parties after returns, trade discounts and volume rebates. 
Goods and services sold   
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when both the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred  
to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. This is normally when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from rental of assets is recognised over the duration of the rental contract, on a straight line basis, at the amount billed  
to the customer.
Section 2 – Results for the year  68          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 2 – Results for the year continued
 2.1 Profit before tax continued
Segment reporting
The Group has three reportable segments which are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board). Further details on the nature of these segments and the products and services 
they provide are contained in the Directors’ Report.      
  Imaging   Corporate and   
 Videocom & Staging Services unallocated Consolidated
   2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:          
  Sales   134.0 119.4 183.2 153.7 7.5 7.2 - - 324.7 280.3
  Services   2.2 2.2 - - 24.1 27.1 - - 26.3 29.3
Total revenue from external customers   136.2 121.6 183.2 153.7 31.6 34.3 - - 351.0 309.6
Inter-segment revenue 
(1)
   2.3 2.9 0.6 0.4 0.1 0.2 (3.0) (3.5) - -
Total revenue   138.5 124.5 183.8 154.1 31.7 34.5 (3.0) (3.5) 351.0 309.6
Segment result   12.7 8.4 21.2 18.9 0.6 0.4 - - 34.5 27.7
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions   (0.5) - (0.3) - - - - - (0.8) -
Goodwill impairment   - - (5.2) - - - - - (5.2) -
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets   (2.6) (5.1) (0.6) (2.5) - - - - (3.2) (7.6)
Other Significant items   - 2.6 - (0.1) - - - - - 2.5
Operating profit after Significant items   9.6 5.9 15.1 16.3 0.6 0.4 - - 25.3 22.6
Net finance costs           (1.5) (0.9)
Taxation           (8.8) (3.4)
Profit for the year           15.0 18.3
Segment assets   119.6 90.6 100.3 92.8 22.2 23.0 0.8 0.9 242.9 207.3
Unallocated assets          
  Cash and cash equivalents         6.9 7.7 6.9 7.7
  Current tax assets         0.8 0.3 0.8 0.3
  Deferred tax assets         15.8 22.6 15.8 22.6
Total assets           266.4 237.9
Segment liabilities   27.3 29.2 33.2 30.4 3.1 1.9 8.1 4.5 71.7 66.0
Unallocated liabilities          
  Bank overdrafts         0.7 1.0 0.7 1.0
  Bank loans         56.6 34.8 56.6 34.8
  Current tax liabilities         7.4 9.4 7.4 9.4
  Deferred tax liabilities         0.7 2.4 0.7 2.4
Total liabilities           137.1 113.6
Average number of employees   834 798 1,020 895 178 198 20 16 2,052 1,907
Cash flows from operating activities   4.3 4.2 12.0 15.6 5.7 4.2 5.0 8.5 27.0 32.5
Cash flows from investing activities   (1.9) - (3.9) (7.5) (3.5) (2.4) (29.1) - (38.4) (9.9)
Cash flows from financing activities   - - - - - - 10.9 (27.4) 10.9 (27.4)
Capital expenditure          
  Property, plant and equipment   3.2 3.4 4.4 6.7 5.8 3.7 0.3 - 13.7 13.8
  Intangible assets   0.7 1.5 1.2 1.1 0.5 0.1 - - 2.4 2.7
(1)
 Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in either 2011 or 2010. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         69
Geographical segments  
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Analysis of revenue from external customers, by location of customer  
United Kingdom         26.0 22.8
The rest of Europe         89.3 72.8
The Americas         164.4 154.0
The rest of the World         71.3 60.0
Total revenue from external customers         351.0 309.6
The Group’s operating segments are located in several geographical locations, and sell products and services on to external customers in all parts of the world.
Operating expenses  
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Analysis of net operating expenses   
Administrative expenses   
  - Significant items         9.2 9.0
  - Other administrative expenses         48.0 44.5
            57.2 53.5
Marketing, selling and distribution costs         51.4 44.5
Research, development and engineering costs        12.2 9.8
Operating expenses         120.8 107.8
Operating profit  
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
The following items are included in operating profit  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements    0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services  
  - The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation       0.3 0.4
  - Transaction and other services         0.2 0.1 70          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 2 – Results for the year continued
2.2 Significant items 
Significant items are excluded from key performance measures in order to more accurately show the underlying current 
business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and reflect how the business is managed and measured on  
a day-to-day basis. In Management’s judgement, Significant items include non-cash charges such as impairment and 
amortisation, and non-operational items that are outside the ordinary course of trading activities.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Significant items comprise the following:   
  - Exit costs on Broadcast Auxiliary Services “BAS” relocation project      - (1.3)
Cost of sales          - (1.3)
  - Profit on disposal of Clear-Com business        - 2.2
  - Curtailment gain on UK defined benefit pension scheme       - 3.0
Other operating income         - 5.2
  - Costs associated with UK defined benefit pension scheme       - (0.5)
  - Exit costs on BAS relocation project         - (0.8)
  - Impairment losses on property         - (0.1)
  - Transaction costs relating to acquisitions        (0.8) -
  - Impairment of goodwill in the Staging business        (5.2) -
  - Amortisation of acquired intangible assets        (3.2) (7.6)
Operating expenses         (9.2) (9.0)
Significant items included in Operating Profit        (9.2) (5.1)
  - Finance income
 (1)
         - 0.1
Significant items included in Profit before Tax        (9.2) (5.0)
(1)
  In 2010, significant finance income of £0.1 million related to currency translation differences arising on certain intra-Group funding balances that did not meet the 
strict criteria for net investment hedging, but are very similar in nature.    
2.3 Net finance expense  
This note details the finance income and expense generated from the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. 
Accounting policies
Net finance expense comprises:   
 - interest payable on borrowings and interest receivable on funds invested;   
 - the amortisation of loan costs;    
 - foreign exchange gains and losses on external loans that are not part of a net investment hedge;   
 - the finance element of defined benefit pension schemes; and    
 - gains and losses on derivatives to the extent that they are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Net finance expense  
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Finance income   
Expected return on assets in the defined benefit pension scheme
 (1)
       2.8 2.8
Net currency translation gains         0.3 0.4
           3.1 3.2
Finance expense   
Interest payable on bank borrowings         (1.9) (1.2)
Interest charge on defined benefit pension scheme liabilities
 (1)
       (2.7) (2.8)
Net fair value losses on financial instruments        - (0.1)
           (4.6) (4.1)
Net finance expense         (1.5) (0.9)
(1)
 See Note 5.2 “Pensions”  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         71
2.4 Tax 
This note lays out the tax accounting policies, the total tax charge or credit in the Income Statement, and tax assets  
and tax liabilities in the Balance Sheet. This includes amounts relating to deferred tax.
Accounting policies
Income Tax
The tax expense in the Income Statement represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.    
  
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years. Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred 
tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carried forward unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the 
carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, can be utilised.       
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent  
of the probable level of taxable profit would be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the following temporary differences: 
 -  Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss; and
 -  Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal is controlled by the  
Company and they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Tax - Income Statement  
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
The total taxation charge/(credit) in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:      
Before Significant items       
Current tax                   8.7  9.1
Deferred tax                    2.1  (0.3)
                     10.8  8.8
Significant items      
Current tax
 (1)
         (0.3) (4.2)
Deferred tax
 (2)
         (1.7) (1.2)
           (2.0) (5.4)
Summarised in the Income Statement as follows:      
Current tax         8.4 4.9
Deferred tax          0.4 (1.5)
           8.8 3.4 
(1)
  Current tax credits of £0.3 million have been recognised with a corresponding credit to Significant items. This relates to the current tax impact of the amortisation of 
intangible assets in the period. 
(2)
  Deferred tax credits of £1.7 million have been recognised with a corresponding credit to Significant items. The impairment of goodwill to the Italian portion of the 
Staging business has resulted in the reversal of a deferred tax liability and a corresponding credit to Significant items of £0.7 million. The remaining £1.0 million  
credit relates to the deferred tax impacts of the amortisation of intangible assets. 72          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 2 – Results for the year continued
 2.4 Tax continued
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Current tax expense        
Charge for the year         9.2 8.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years          (0.8) (3.5)
           8.4 4.9
The UK current tax charge represents £2.0 million of the total Group current tax charge of £8.4 million with the remaining charge of  
£6.4 million relating to overseas tax.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Deferred tax expense        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences         0.4 (1.5)
Tax credits recognised in SOCIE
 (3)
         - (2.3)
           0.4 (3.8) 
(3) 
 Deferred tax credits relating to the impact of cash flow hedges of £0.4 million have been fully offset by an equal £0.4 million charge in respect of the UK defined 
benefit pension scheme. Both items have been reflected in the SOCIE.
The UK deferred tax credit represents £0.2 million of the total Group deferred tax charge of £0.4 million, offset by a £0.6 million charge 
relating to overseas tax.        
         2011 2010 
Reconciliation of Group tax charge         £m £m
Profit before tax         23.8 21.7
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate at 26.5% (2010: 28.0%)      6.3 6.1
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions         (0.2) (1.3)
Non-deductible expenses         0.9 1.7
Impact of business disposal         - (2.7)
Impact of tax credits in respect of prior years        (0.8) (4.6)
Benefit of tax losses recognised         - (2.1)
Impact of goodwill impairment         1.0 -
Impact of tax losses not recognised         1.5 6.0
Other         0.1 0.3
Total income tax expense in Income Statement         8.8 3.4 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         73
Tax - Balance Sheet 
Current tax 
The current tax liability of £7.4 million (2010: £9.4 million) represents the amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior 
periods. The current tax assets of £0.8 million (2010: £0.3 million) mainly relate to income tax receivable in Italy. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
      Recognised Recognised    
      in on  Exchange  
     2011 income acquisitions Transfers
 (1)
 movements 2010 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     2.2  (0.5) - 0.3 0.2 2.2
Intangible assets     (1.3)  (0.3) (4.7) (1.6) - 5.3
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     3.6  0.8 - (0.6) (0.2) 3.6
Property, plant, equipment and other     11.3 (0.4) - 0.2 - 11.5
        15.8 (0.4) (4.7) (1.7) - 22.6
Liabilities      
Intangible assets     (0.7) - - 1.6 - (2.3)
Property, plant, equipment and other     - - - 0.1 - (0.1)
        (0.7) - - 1.7 - (2.4)
Net      15.1 (0.4) (4.7) - - 20.2
      Recognised Recognised Transferred   
      in in to current Exchange  
     2010 income reserves tax movements 2009 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories     2.2 0.4 - - - 1.8
Intangible assets     5.3 1.6 - - 0.1 3.6
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised     3.6 (0.7) - (1.1) 0.1 5.3
Property, plant, equipment and other     11.5 1.7 2.3 - 0.1 7.4
        22.6 3.0 2.3 (1.1) 0.3 18.1
Liabilities      
Intangible assets     (2.3) (1.9) - - 0.1 (0.5)
Property, plant, equipment and other     (0.1) 0.4 - - - (0.5)
        (2.4) (1.5) - - 0.1 (1.0)
Net     20.2 1.5 2.3 (1.1) 0.4 17.1
(1) 
 Deferred tax assets have been offset against liabilities where assets and liabilities arise in the same jurisdiction and there is a legal right of offset. 
Deferred tax assets totalling £9.9 million have been recognised in the US on the basis that future profits are expected to be made in the 
US businesses such that it is probable that these assets will be utilised in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Losses         6.6 4.8
Temporary differences on share options         1.2 1.2
Total         7.8 6.0
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not sufficiently probable that these assets will reverse  
in the foreseeable future.      
No taxes have been provided for liabilities which may arise on the distribution of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries on the basis of control, 
except where distributions of such profits are planned. Cumulative unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates totalled 
approximately £57.9 million at 31 December 2011 (2010: £67.0 million). It is not practical to calculate the tax which would arise on remittance 
of these amounts and, as dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries to the UK should be exempt from additional UK tax, no significant  
tax charges would be expected.         74          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 2 – Results for the year continued
2.5 Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated on the profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year, but adjusted for the effects of dilutive share options. The key features of share option contracts are 
described in Note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
The Adjusted EPS measure is used by Management to assess the underlying performance of the ongoing businesses,  
and therefore excludes Significant items.
The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below:
         2011 2010 
Profit         £m £m
Profit for the financial year         15.0 18.3
Add back: Significant items         7.2 (0.4)
Earnings before Significant items         22.2 17.9
     Weighted average number Adjusted earnings 
     of shares ’000  per share Earnings per share
     2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
     Number Number pence pence pence pence
Basic       43,197 42,755 51.4 41.9 34.7 42.8
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:       
  - Employee share options       975 917 (1.2) (0.9) (0.7) (0.9)
  - Deferred Bonus Plan       102 50 (0.1) - (0.1) -
Diluted      44,274 43,722 50.1 41.0 33.9 41.9  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         75
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
This section shows the assets and liabilities used to generate 
the Group’s trading performance. Liabilities relating to the 
Group’s financing activities are addressed in Section 4. 
Current tax and deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown  
in Section 2.4.
On the following pages, there are disclosures covering  
the following:  
3.1 Intangible assets   
3.2 Property, plant and equipment   
3.3  Working capital   
3.4  Acquisitions   
3.5  Provisions   
3.1 Intangible assets
This shows the non-physical assets used by the Group  
to generate revenues and profits. These assets include  
the following: 
 - Goodwill 
 - Acquired intangible assets  
 - Capitalised software  
 - Capitalised development costs  
Accounting policies
Goodwill 
The goodwill recognised by the Group has all arisen as a  
result of acquisitions and is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not 
reversed. From 1 January 2004 (IFRS transition date), goodwill 
is allocated on acquisition, to cash-generating units that are 
anticipated to benefit from the combination, and is not subject  
to amortisation but is tested annually for impairment. Impairment 
is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the goodwill relates. This estimate of 
recoverable amount is determined at each Balance Sheet date. 
The Group’s identified cash-generating units are smaller than 
reportable segments.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant 
assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors 
such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating 
unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash  
flow performance. Where the recoverable amount of the  
cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount,  
an impairment loss is recognised.    
All acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2010 are 
accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill on 
these acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the 
acquisition over the fair value to the Group of the identifiable net 
assets acquired, all measured at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired can be made 
within 12 months of the acquisition date where original fair values 
were determined provisionally. These adjustments are accounted 
for from the date of acquisition. Transaction costs that the Group 
incurs in connection with an acquisition, such as legal fees, due 
diligence fees and other professional and consulting fees, are 
expensed as incurred.   
Acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 
31 December 2009 have been accounted for by applying 
the purchase method in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations (2004)’. Goodwill on these acquisitions represents 
the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value to the 
Group of the identifiable net assets acquired. When the excess 
is negative (negative goodwill) it is recognised immediately in the 
Income Statement. Transaction costs that the Group incurred in 
connection with an acquisition, such as legal fees, due diligence 
fees and other professional and consulting fees, were included in 
the cost of acquisition. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is 
included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the 
amount recorded previously under UK GAAP at that time less 
amortisation up to 31 December 2003. Prior to 1 January 1998, 
goodwill was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Other intangible assets 
The other intangible assets are either acquired or internally 
generated (such as capitalised software and capitalised 
development costs).    
Acquired intangible assets   
Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated 
amortisation at the rates indicated below:   
Order backlog    1 to 2 years
Brand     3 to 15 years
Customer relationships   3 to 15 years
Technology    5 to 15 years 76          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities continued
 3.1 Intangible assets continued
Capitalised software 
The cost of acquiring software (including associated 
implementation and development costs where applicable) is 
classified as an intangible asset. Costs that are directly associated 
with the production of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group, and that are assessed as likely to 
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, 
are also capitalised and recognised as intangible assets. Costs 
associated with maintaining computer software programmes 
are recognised as an expense as incurred. Capitalised software 
expenditure is amortised over its estimated useful life of between 
3 to 5 years, and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and impairment losses.
Capitalised development costs 
Research and development costs are charged to the Income 
Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless  
development expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation.  
Once detailed and strict criteria have been met that confirm  
that the product or process is both technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete  
the project, any further expenditure incurred on the project is 
capitalised. The capitalised expenditure includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overheads. 
Capitalised expenditure is amortised over the life of the project  
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.
Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) 
containing goodwill
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of 
Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating  
units which are represented by the Group’s trading businesses. 
The most significant elements of the Group’s total consolidated 
goodwill of £57.1 million at 31 December 2011 are allocated  
to Vitec Videocom (formerly three separate CGUs comprising 
Camera Dynamics, Litepanels and Anton/Bauer, which are  
now combined into a single CGU because of their future 
interdependence of cash-flow generation): £17.2 million  
(2010: £17.2 million) and Haigh-Farr: £13.3 million. Both CGUs  
sit within the Videocom segment. Acquired entities are quickly 
integrated into existing Group companies with the result that it  
is not appropriate to consider their individual performance when 
determining cash-generating units and performing goodwill 
impairment testing. Each cash-generating unit is assessed for 
impairment annually and whenever there is a specific indication  
of impairment.    
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value  
of goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use  
over a projected period of five years together with a terminal value. 
This reflects the projected cash flows of each cash-generating 
unit based on the actual operating results, the most recent Board 
approved budget, strategic plans and management projections.
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations 
are based relate to business performance over the next five 
years, long-term growth rates beyond 2016 and the discount 
rates applied. The key judgements are the level of revenue and 
operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating 
profit converted to cash in each year. Forecasts are based  
on past experience and take into account current and future 
market conditions and opportunities.
Growth rates for the period beyond 2016 are assumed to be 2%, 
which is considered to be at or below long-term market trends  
for each CGU.    
The cash flow projections have been discounted to present  
value using the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for economic and CGU-specific risk factors including 
markets and size of business. Pre-tax rates of 11% to 13%  
have been used for impairment testing.   
The following specific individual sensitivities have been considered: 
 -  if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1%; 
and 
 - a 1% point increase in the discount rate applied to each CGU.
A one-off goodwill impairment of £5.2 million has been charged 
to Significant items in relation to the Group’s full impairment of 
its investment in the Staging businesses (2010: £nil). While the 
business is trading in line with expectations in 2011, Management 
has reassessed its longer term prospects and concluded that 
these do not support the carrying value of goodwill. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         77
Intangible assets
        Acquired  Capitalised 
        intangible Capitalised development 
      Total Goodwill  assets software costs 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Cost         
At 1 January 2010       99.0 54.2 33.3 10.9 0.6
Currency translation adjustments       2.5 1.2 1.4 (0.1) -
Additions/(reductions)       2.6 (0.1) - 1.2 1.5
Disposals       (3.5) (2.6) (0.5) (0.4) -
At 31 December 2010       100.6 52.7 34.2 11.6 2.1
At 1 January 2011       100.6 52.7 34.2 11.6 2.1
Currency translation adjustments       0.3 0.1 0.3 (0.1) -
Additions/(reductions)
 (1)
       1.5 (0.9) - 2.3 0.1
Acquisitions      31.8 18.3 13.5 - -
At 31 December 2011      134.2 70.2 48.0 13.8 2.2
Amortisation and impairment losses     
At 1 January 2010      40.8 9.6 23.0 8.2 -
Currency translation adjustment      1.1 0.2 1.0 (0.1) -
Amortisation in the year      9.0 - 7.6 1.2 0.2
Impairment charge      0.1 - - 0.1 -
Disposals      (2.2) (1.9) (0.1) (0.2) -
At 31 December 2010      48.8 7.9 31.5 9.2 0.2
At 1 January 2011      48.8 7.9 31.5 9.2 0.2
Currency translation adjustment      0.3 - 0.4 (0.1) -
Amortisation in the year      4.9 - 3.2 1.2 0.5
Impairment charge
 (2)
      5.2 5.2 - - -
At 31 December 2011      59.2 13.1 35.1 10.3 0.7
Carrying amounts     
At 1 January 2010      58.2 44.6 10.3 2.7 0.6
At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011      51.8 44.8 2.7 2.4 1.9
At 31 December 2011      75.0 57.1 12.9 3.5 1.5
(1)
 The reduction in goodwill of £0.9 million arose on the reversal of contingent consideration relating to previous acquisitions.   
(2)
 The annual impairment review of goodwill led to a full impairment charge of £5.2 million to the goodwill of the Staging business, in the Imaging & Staging division. 78          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities continued
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
This shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include the following: 
 - Land and buildings  
 - Plant, machinery and vehicles  
 - Equipment, fixtures and fittings  
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Certain land and buildings  
that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, 
being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.   
Rental assets are recorded as plant and machinery.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over 
their estimated useful lives. The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and expected residual 
value at the end of its life. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows:  
Freehold land     not depreciated
Freehold and long leasehold buildings     up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements     shorter of estimated useful life or remaining period of the lease
Plant and machinery     4 to 8 years
Motor vehicles     3 to 4 years
Equipment, fixtures and fittings     3 to 10 years
Rental assets     3 to 5 years 
Impairment of assets   
Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment may include changes in technology and market conditions. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         79
Property, plant and equipment        
         Plant, Equipment, 
        Land machinery fixtures 
        and and and 
       Total buildings vehicles fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2010       147.2 33.4 99.1 14.7
Currency translation adjustments       0.1 (0.5) 0.6 -
Additions       13.8 2.7 8.3 2.8
Disposals       (13.3) (0.6) (10.5) (2.2)
At 31 December 2010       147.8 35.0 97.5 15.3
At 1 January 2011       147.8 35.0 97.5 15.3
Currency translation adjustments       (1.0) (0.3) (0.6) (0.1)
Additions       13.7 1.4 11.1 1.2
Disposals       (15.8) (5.6) (8.1) (2.1)
Acquisitions       0.2 - 0.2 -
At 31 December 2011       144.9 30.5 100.1 14.3
Depreciation    
At 1 January 2010       92.6 13.8 67.5 11.3
Currency translation adjustment       (0.1) (0.3) 0.3 (0.1)
Depreciation charge in the year       13.6 1.2 11.1 1.3
Impairment losses       0.1 0.1 - -
Transfers between asset categories       - (0.1) 0.2 (0.1)
Disposals       (11.8) (0.5) (9.4) (1.9)
At 31 December 2010       94.4 14.2 69.7 10.5
At 1 January 2011       94.4 14.2 69.7 10.5
Currency translation adjustment       (0.8) (0.2) (0.5) (0.1)
Depreciation charge in the year       13.2 1.6 10.4 1.2
Disposals       (12.0) (2.7) (7.3) (2.0)
At 31 December 2011       94.8 12.9 72.3 9.6
Carrying amounts    
At 1 January 2010       54.6 19.6 31.6 3.4
At 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011       53.4 20.8 27.8 4.8
At 31 December 2011       50.1 17.6 27.8 4.7
Plant, machinery and vehicles includes broadcast equipment rental assets with an original cost of £45.4 million (2010: £43.9 million)  
and accumulated depreciation of £31.2 million (2010: £31.1 million).
Capital commitments at 31 December 2011 for which no provision has been made in the financial statements amount to  
£0.3 million (2010: £nil). 80          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities continued
3.3 Working capital
Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activities. The Group therefore 
defines working capital as Inventory, Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables. 
Careful management of working capital is vital as it ensures that the Group can meet its trading and financing obligations 
within its ordinary operating cycle.  
Accounting policies
Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business 
combinations is valued at fair value. Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other 
costs to bring the inventory to its existing location and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress cost includes 
an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is accounted for on an average cost or first-in, 
first-out method as appropriate. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
costs of completion and selling expenses. Provisions for inventories are recognised when the book value exceeds its net realisable value.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised at the invoice value less provision for impairment. The carrying value of trade receivables  
is considered to approximate fair value.  
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that amounts due will not be collected according to the original 
terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators  
that the trade receivable is impaired.  
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
Inventories
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Raw materials and components          18.5  14.7
Work in progress          12.6  9.6
Finished goods          35.3  31.1
Inventories, net of impairment provisions          66.4  55.4 
   
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Impairment provisions against inventory obsolescence   
Balance at 1 January          18.9  22.1
Increase during the year          3.2  2.0
Utilised during the year          (1.3) (5.7)
Currency translation adjustments          0.1  0.5
Balance at 31 December          20.9  18.9  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         81
Trade and other receivables
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Short-term receivables   
Trade receivables, net of impairment provisions        38.7 34.9
Other receivables         8.6 7.1
Prepayments and accrued income         3.4 3.4
           50.7 45.4
Long-term receivables  
Other receivables         0.4 0.4
Total receivables         51.1 45.8
   
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Gross trade receivables - days overdue
 (1)
 
Current         33.5 30.0
1-30 days         6.0 5.2
31-60 days         1.7 1.5
61-90 days         0.5 0.8
over 90 days         2.5 2.1
Gross trade receivables         44.2 39.6
(1)
 Days overdue are measured from the date an invoice was due to be paid.
   
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Impairment provisions against trade receivables  
Balance at 1 January         4.7 4.8
Increase during the year         5.1 4.0
Utilised during the year         (4.3) (4.2)
Currency translation adjustments         - 0.1
Balance at 31 December         5.5 4.7
The trade receivables impairment provision consists of £2.9 million (2010: £2.8 million) for bad debts and £2.6 million (2010: £1.9 million) 
for sales returns and discounts.
Trade and other payables
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Current trade and other payables  
Trade payables         29.7 23.4
Other tax and social security costs         2.9 2.6
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income        25.7 23.7
           58.3 49.7
Long-term payables  
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income        1.2 1.5
Total payables         59.5 51.2
    82          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities continued
3.4 Acquisitions
This note outlines how the Group has accounted for businesses that it has has acquired in the year. 
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. As part of the acquisition accounting, the  
Group has adopted a process to identify the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate 
identification of intangible assets in order to allocate the consideration paid. This process continues as information is 
finalised, and accordingly the fair value adjustments presented in the tables below are provisional. In accordance with 
IFRS3, until the assessment is complete the allocation period will remain open up to a maximum of twelve months from 
the acquisition date so long as information remains outstanding. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the Income 
Statement as incurred in accordance with IFRS3 (Revised). 
The acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns.  
Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses represent much of the assessed  
value of goodwill.  
Acquisition of Lastolite 
On 4 March 2011, the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Henry (Holdings) Limited (Lastolite), a private company domiciled 
in the UK and the owner of Lastolite Limited and the Colorama brand. Lastolite is the world’s leading manufacturer of backgrounds and 
lighting control systems which complement the existing range of Manfrotto lighting supports, LED lights and lighting control accessories, 
and operates within the Imaging & Staging Division. Lastolite Limited was renamed Manfrotto Lighting Limited on 3 January 2012.
The acquisition was funded from existing cash resources.   
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Lastolite is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets        - 3.1 3.1
Property, plant and equipment        0.2 - 0.2
Inventories        1.2 0.1 1.3
Trade and other receivables        1.3 - 1.3
Trade and other payables        (0.8) (0.4) (1.2)
Cash        0.7 - 0.7
Deferred tax        - (0.8) (0.8)
Current tax        (0.1) - (0.1)
          2.5 2.0 4.5
Goodwill          5.0
Consideration           9.5
Satisfied by:   
  - Cash consideration          8.8
  - Deferred consideration          0.7
            9.5
The deferred consideration is payable dependent upon the results of Lastolite for the year ending 31 December 2011. For the purpose 
of the provisional allocation the Group has assumed that £0.7 million of the total maximum of £1.0 million shall be paid. This reflects 
Management’s assessment at acquisition date of the likely future profitability of Lastolite.    The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         83
The value of the gross trade receivables at acquisition date amounted to £1.2 million reflecting Management’s estimate of the fair value 
to be attributed. 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Total purchase consideration          9.5
Deferred consideration          (0.7)
Cash consideration          8.8
Transaction costs          0.3
Cash acquired          (0.7)
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisition          8.4
The results of Lastolite have been included in the Imaging & Staging Division and comprise:
          2011 
          £m
Revenue          5.7
Operating profit
 (1)
          0.9
(1)
  Cost of sales include an amount of £0.1 million, which is the adjustment to the fair value of inventories to reflect the gross margin inherent in the finished goods and 
work in progress. The operating profit of Lastolite is reduced by this amount, as it flows to the Group’s Income Statement post acquisition in accordance with IFRS3.
Operating profit is stated before amortisation of intangible assets. 
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2011) it would have contributed £7.1 million to revenue and 
£1.2 million to the operating profit of the Group. 84          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities continued
 3.4 Acquisitions continued
Acquisition of Haigh-Farr
On 15 December 2011, the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Haigh-Farr, Inc (Haigh-Farr), a private company based in 
Bedford, New Hampshire, USA.    
Haigh-Farr is a world leader in the design and manufacture of antennae for microwave communication systems which transmit and receive 
video and data in airborne military, commercial and law enforcement applications. This acquisition is another step in the execution of Vitec’s 
strategy to grow in the military, aerospace and government (“MAG”) market and will enable the Group to penetrate new markets, both 
internationally and domestically. Haigh-Farr operates within the Videocom Division.   
The acquisition was funded from existing cash resources.   
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Haigh-Farr is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         - 10.4 10.4
Inventories        1.0 - 1.0
Trade and other receivables         0.8 - 0.8
Trade and other payables         (1.2) - (1.2)
Cash         0.2 - 0.2
Deferred tax        - (3.9) (3.9)
           0.8 6.5 7.3
Goodwill          13.3
Consideration          20.6
Satisfied by:   
  - Cash consideration          20.0
  - Deferred consideration          0.6
            20.6 
The deferred consideration of £0.6 million reflects Management’s estimate of the amount payable in relation to the net working  
capital adjustment. 
Up to a further US$5.0 million (£3.2 million) is payable (US$2.5 million in 2013 and US$2.5 million in 2014) conditional upon the vendors 
remaining employed with the business and achievement of performance targets for the years ending 31 December 2012 and 2013.  
This will be charged to the Income Statement as and when incurred.   
The value of the gross trade receivables at acquisition date amounted to £0.8 million reflecting Management’s estimate of the fair value 
to be attributed. 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Total purchase consideration          20.6
Deferred consideration          (0.6)
Cash consideration          20.0
Transaction costs          0.5
Cash acquired          (0.2)
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisition          20.3
The results of Haigh-Farr have been included in the Videocom Division and comprise:
          2011 
          £m
Revenue          0.1
Operating profit
 (1)
          -
(1)
  Operating profit is stated before amortisation of intangible assets.
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2011) it would have contributed £6.0 million to revenue  
and £2.0 million to the operating profit of the Group. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         85
3.5 Provisions
A provision is recognised by the Group where an obligation exists relating to events in the past, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it.  
Accounting policies
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle it. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate.       
Provisions for warranties, based on historical warranty data, are recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and the restructuring  
has either commenced or has been announced.       
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed  
the economic benefits expected to be received under it. 
         Onerous Deferred 
      Total Warranty Restructuring lease consideration 
      £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011      6.8 3.2 1.8 - 1.8
Provisions utilised during the year      (1.8) (1.2) (0.6) - -
Provisions reversed during the year      (2.1) (1.2) - - (0.9)
Charged to the Income Statement      1.5 0.7 - 0.8 -
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking      1.3 - - - 1.3
At 31 December 2011      5.7 1.5 1.2 0.8 2.2
Current      4.1 1.1 0.6 0.2 2.2
Non-current      1.6 0.4 0.6 0.6 -
        5.7 1.5 1.2 0.8 2.2
Warranty provisions      
Warranties over the Group’s products typically cover periods of between two and five years. The provision represents Management’s 
estimate of the Group’s liability based on past experience.      
Restructuring      
The restructuring provision is in relation to a previously announced efficiency programme and is expected to be utilised by 2015.  
Onerous lease contracts      
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Group entered into  
in previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the lease of up to four years, or earlier if exited.
Deferred consideration      
The deferred consideration provision relates to amounts payable on acquisition of subsidiaries which are conditional on the  
achievement of performance or working capital targets. 86          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 4 – Capital structure
This section outlines the Group’s capital structure. The Group considers its dividend policy at least twice a year  
ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan.  
The Group focuses on leverage, credit ratings and interest cost, particularly when considering investment.
On the following pages there are disclosures concerning the following:  
4.1 Net debt
4.2 Financial instruments
4.3 Share capital and reserves   
4.1 Net debt
The Group’s net debt comprises of the following:
 - Bank loans    
 -  Cash and cash equivalents (cash on hand and demand deposits at banks)    
 - Bank overdrafts that are payable on demand  
Accounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet represent cash on hand and demand deposits at banks. Demand deposits are  
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash without penalty and that are subject to  
an insignificant risk of changes in value.   
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management.
Interest-bearing borrowings  
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, these transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the related borrowings.   
Analysis of net debt  
The table below analyses the Group’s components of net debt and their movements in the year.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents         (0.5) (4.8)
(Proceeds from)/repayment of bank loans         (21.6) 19.0
(Increase)/decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows        (22.1) 14.2
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        - (0.6)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on debt held        (0.2) (1.1)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on net debt        (0.2) (1.7)
Movements in net debt in the year         (22.3) 12.5
Net debt at 1 January         (28.1) (40.6)
Net debt at 31 December         (50.4) (28.1)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet        6.9 7.7
Bank overdrafts         (0.7) (1.0)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows       6.2 6.7
Bank loans         (56.6) (34.8)
Net debt at 31 December         (50.4) (28.1)
    The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         87
4.2 Financial instruments
This provides details on:
 - Financial risk management 
 - Derivative financial instruments 
 - Fair value hierarchy 
 - Interest rate profile 
 - Maturity profile of financial liabilities  
Financial risk management  
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing 
expose it to a variety of financial risks. In the course of its 
business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way  
the Group is managed. Financial risk management 
policies are set by the Board of Directors. These policies 
are implemented by a central treasury department that 
has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange 
risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where 
appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments.  
The Group has clearly defined authority and approval  
limits built into these procedures.   
Foreign currency risk   
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase 
transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the  
respective functional currencies of Group companies (transactional 
exposures) and where the results of overseas companies are 
consolidated into the Group’s reporting currency of Sterling 
(translational exposures). 
The Group has operations around the world which record their 
results in a variety of different local functional currencies. In 
countries where the Group does not have operations, it invariably 
has some customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign 
currency. The Group is therefore exposed to the changes in 
foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different 
currencies but the Group’s primary exposures relate to the US 
Dollar and Euro. Where appropriate, the Group manages its 
foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign 
currency risks through the use of forward exchange contracts. 
Forward exchange contracts are typically used to hedge 75% 
of the Group’s forecasted foreign currency exposure in respect 
of transactions for the following twelve months. These contracts 
have maturities of less than one year at the Balance Sheet date.
The Group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks can 
relate both to the Income Statement and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries. The Group’s policy is not to hedge the translational 
exposure that arises on consolidation of the statement of income 
of overseas subsidiaries. The Group finances overseas company 
investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings 
in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising 
on translation of the Group’s foreign currency subsidiaries.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated 
cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling 
foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address  
short-term imbalances.     
At 31 December 2011, it is estimated that a ten cent stronger/
weaker US Dollar, Sterling and Euro would have increased/
decreased the Group’s operating profit before Significant items for 
the year ended 31 December 2011 by approximately £1.3 million. 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises of both the interest rate price risk 
that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the 
interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, it is estimated that a 
general increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest 
rates, would decrease/increase the Group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £0.5 million.
Liquidity risk     
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet  
its financial obligations as they fall due. On 8 August 2008 the 
Group signed a 5 year Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility 
Agreement with a syndicate of five UK and European banks.  
This Multicurrency facility was reduced from £125 million to  
£100 million during 2011 when the Group put in place a a  
two year $75 million Private Placement shelf facility, of which  
$50 million was drawn down in two tranches of $25 million  
each by 31 December 2011. The Group was utilising 25%  
of the £100 million Multicurrency facility at 31 December 2011. 88          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 4 – Capital structure continued
 4.2 Financial instruments continued
Credit risk     
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to meet its 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial  
assets such as trade receivables, cash balances and derivative 
financial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit 
risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial  
asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the  
Group Balance Sheet.
a) Trade receivables 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. Trade receivables are subject to credit limits, and 
control and approval procedures in the operating companies. Due 
to its large geographic base and number of customers, the Group 
is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade 
receivables.
b) Cash balances and derivative financial instruments 
Credit risk associated with cash balances is managed by 
transacting with a number of major financial institutions worldwide 
and periodically reviewing their credit worthiness. Transactions 
involving derivative financial instruments are managed centrally. 
These are only with banks that are part of the Group’s £100 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement. Accordingly, 
the Group’s associated credit risk is limited. The Group has no 
significant concentration of credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments 
This is a summary of the derivative financial instruments 
that the Group holds and uses to manage risk. The value 
of these derivatives change over time in response to 
underlying variables such as exchange rates and are 
carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined 
by estimating the market value of that contract at the 
reporting date. Derivatives with a positive fair value are 
recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities, 
and presented as current or non-current based on their 
contracted maturity dates.
Accounting policies 
Derivative financial instruments 
In accordance with Board approved policies, the Group uses 
derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising from operational 
activities. It does not hold or use derivative financial instruments 
for trading or speculative purposes.
Cash flow hedge accounting 
Derivative financial instruments may be transacted to hedge the 
variability in cash flows of highly probable forecast transactions  
or a recognised asset or liability, caused by changes in  
exchange rates.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated in a cash  
flow hedge relationship with a highly probable forecast transaction, 
the effective part of any gain or loss arising is recognised in the 
Cash flow hedging reserve within Equity, via the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is 
recognised in the Income Statement within net finance expense. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently occurs and results 
in the recognition of a financial asset or liability that impacts on 
the Income Statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss 
is removed from the hedging reserve and presented within the 
Income Statement.
If a hedging instrument expires or is sold but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a derivative is used to hedge economically the foreign 
exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the Income Statement.
If a derivative financial instrument is not formally designated 
in a cash flow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is 
recognised in the Income Statement. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         89
Forward exchange contracts 
The following table shows the forward exchange contracts in place at the Balance Sheet date. These contracts mature in the next twelve 
months, therefore the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within the next twelve months.
        Average  Average 
        exchange  exchange 
       As at 31 rate of As at 31 rate of 
       December contracts December contracts 
        2011 2011 2010 2010 
      Currency Millions  Millions
Net investment contracts     
US Dollar / Sterling forward exchange contracts     US Dollar - - 12.5 1.55
Cash flow hedging contracts     
US Dollar / Sterling forward exchange contracts     US Dollar 11.4 1.58 8.1 1.54
US Dollar / Euro forward exchange contracts     US Dollar 30.9 1.38 33.7 1.37
Euro / Sterling forward exchange contracts      Euro 9.3 1.15 10.2 1.11
Sterling / Euro forward exchange contracts      Sterling - - 5.7 0.83
Yen / Sterling forward exchange contracts      Yen 245.0 123 262.0 138
Yen / Euro forward exchange contracts      Yen 347.0 109 288.0 121
The net gain in the Income Statement on fair value instruments was £1.0 million (2010: £0.8 million loss). 
Fair value hierarchy
The following summarises financial instruments carried at fair values and the major methods and assumptions used in estimating these fair values. 
The different levels of fair value hierarchy have been defined as follows:     
Level 1 
Fair value measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;   
Level 2 
Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and     
Level 3
Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The table below shows the carrying values and fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
       Carrying  Carrying  
       value Fair value value Fair value 
       2011 2011 2010 2010 
       £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts – Assets       0.3 0.3 0.9 0.9
Forward exchange contracts – Liabilities       (1.6) (1.6) (1.0) (1.0)
Cash at bank and in hand       6.9 6.9 7.7 7.7
Net trade receivables       38.7 38.7 34.9 34.9
Trade payables       (29.7) (29.7) (23.4) (23.4)
Fixed rate borrowings       (32.2) (34.6) - -
Floating rate borrowings       (25.1) (25.1) (35.8) (35.8)
         (42.7) (45.1) (16.7) (16.7)
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where payments 
are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.     
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using appropriate yield curves,  
to the net present values.     
All financial instruments are deemed Level 2. 90          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 4 – Capital structure continued
 4.2 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate profile 
The table below analyses the Group’s interest rate exposure arising from bank loans by currency.
Accounting policies 
Net investment hedge accounting     
The Group uses Yen, US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s net 
investment in overseas companies. Inter-company loans for which repayment is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable 
future are classified as net investments.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, 
the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the translation reserve within Equity, via the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Income Statement.
The effective portion will be recycled into the Income Statement on the sale of the foreign operation.    
Bank borrowings     
The table below analyses the Group’s bank borrowings by currency.
         Fixed rate  Floating rate 
         Total borrowings borrowings 
        £m £m £m
Yen        2.5 - 2.5
US Dollar        38.0 32.2 5.8
Euro        4.1 - 4.1
Sterling        12.7 - 12.7
At 31 December 2011        57.3 32.2 25.1
Yen        2.4 - 2.4
US Dollar        25.6 - 25.6
Euro        6.8 - 6.8
Sterling        1.0 - 1.0
At 31 December 2010        35.8 - 35.8
The floating rate borrowings comprise bank borrowings bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR. The fixed rate borrowings are due  
for repayment on 11 May 2017.     
      The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         91
Maturity profile of financial liabilities     
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
period remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows 
(including interest), so will not always reconcile with the carrying amounts disclosed on the Balance Sheet.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including undiscounted future interest payments.
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
       amount cash flows one year years years 
2011      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans/overdrafts      (57.3) (66.1) (2.6) (30.8) (32.7)
Trade payables      (29.7) (29.7) (29.7) - -
Forward exchange contracts      (1.6) (1.6) (1.6) - -
        (88.6) (97.4) (33.9) (30.8) (32.7)
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
      amount cash flows one year years years 
2010      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans/overdrafts      (35.8) (38.3) (2.5) (35.8) -
Trade payables      (23.4) (23.4) (23.4) - -
Forward exchange contracts      (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) - -
        (60.2) (62.7) (26.9) (35.8) -
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:
         2011 2010 
Expiring in:         £m £m
Less than one year     
  - uncommitted facilities         6.8 15.3
More than one year but not more than two years     
  - uncommitted facilities         16.0 -
More than one year but not more than five years     
  - committed facilities         75.5 90.2
Total         98.3 105.5 92          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
4.3 Share capital and reserves
This note explains the movements in Share Capital and the nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of Equity. 
The movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.    
The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its employee remuneration packages. Options that have been granted 
and remain outstanding at 31 December 2011 are set out below. The various share-based payment schemes are explained 
in Note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
Share capital
          Nominal 
         Number of value 
         Shares £m
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2011         43,152,334 8.6
Exercise of share options         103,184 0.1
At 31 December 2011         43,255,518 8.7
Each ordinary share carries one vote, participates equally with the other ordinary shares in distributions of dividends and capital 
(including on a winding up) and is not redeemable. 
At 31 December 2011 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes:
          Dates 
        Number Exercise normally 
        of shares prices  exercisable
United Kingdom SAYE schemes        640,732 131p-491p 2012-2018
International Sharesave schemes        765,014 131p-522p 2012-2016
Executive schemes        109,658 298p-525p 2012-2018
          1,515,404 
Other Reserves   
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of Equity are as follows:   
Translation reserve   
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.   
Cash flow hedging reserve   
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective 
cash flow hedge relationships.   
Own shares held   
Own shares held by the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings.
Dividends    
After the Balance Sheet date the following dividend was recommended by the Directors. The dividend has not been provided for at the 
year-end and there are no tax consequences.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
12.5 pence per ordinary share (2010: 11.4 pence per ordinary share)       5.4 4.9 
Section 4 – Capital structure continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         93
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
This section explains items that are not explained elsewhere in the financial statements.  
5.1 Employees
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Employee costs, including Directors’ remuneration, comprise:   
Wages and salaries         77.3 70.5
Employers’ social security costs         11.2 9.5
Employers’ pension costs - defined benefit schemes        0.9 (1.6)
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes       1.2 1.2
Other employment benefits         3.0 2.9
Share-based payment charge         1.2 1.0
           94.8 83.5
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share options are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.    94          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 5 – Other supporting notes continued
5.2 Pensions
This note explains the accounting policies governing the Group’s treatment of its pension schemes, followed by an  
analysis of these schemes.
Accounting policies        
Defined contribution schemes        
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The costs of providing pensions for 
employees under defined contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit schemes 
The Group operates pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each plan 
by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That 
benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined  
by reference to market yields at the Balance Sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised  
in full in the period in which they arise in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group recognises the on-going service cost in the Income Statement as part of operating profit. The Group recognises the 
unwinding of the discount (above) and the return on scheme assets in the Income Statement as part of net financial expense.  
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional  
on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Any cost or income relating to the curtailment or settlement of a pension 
scheme is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Pension schemes        
The Group has defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Italy, Germany, Japan, Israel and France. The UK defined benefit scheme 
was closed to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Group are now offered membership of the 
defined contribution pension scheme. Other overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution schemes. 
Defined contribution schemes        
The total Income Statement charge of the defined contribution schemes for the year ended 31 December 2011 was £1.2 million  
(2010: £1.2 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2011 (or at 31 December 2010).
Defined benefit schemes        
The Group’s defined benefit schemes are disclosed below.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet 
Plan assets        
  - Equities         18.9 30.6
  - Bonds         27.2 9.9
  - Other         2.8 4.1
Total fair value of plan assets          48.9 44.6
Present value of defined benefit obligation         (53.8) (51.6)
Net deficit recognised in the Balance Sheet        (4.9) (7.0)
      The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         95
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Analysis of net recognised deficit 
Total funded plan (UK pension scheme)         (0.4) (2.3)
Total unfunded plans         (4.5) (4.7)
Liability recognised on the Balance Sheet        (4.9) (7.0)
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
  - Current service cost         1.1 1.6
  - Past service gain         (0.2) (0.1)
  - Settlement gain         - (0.1)
  - Curtailment gain         - (3.0)
Included in operating costs         0.9 (1.6)
  - Expected return on plan assets         (2.8) (2.8)
  - Interest cost         2.7 2.8
Included in financial expense         (0.1) -
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement        0.8 (1.6)
      2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Movements since 2007 on defined benefit schemes 
Plan assets      48.9 44.6 41.0 34.8 44.4
Defined benefit obligation      (53.8) (51.6) (52.0) (40.7) (47.2)
Total deficit      (4.9) (7.0) (11.0) (5.9) (2.8)
Net actuarial gain/(loss)      1.0 0.2 (6.1) (1.8) 2.5
Experience loss      - - - (0.1) (0.4)
UK pension scheme        
The UK pension scheme, being significant, is disclosed below.        
The nature of the UK scheme is a funded final salary scheme, closed to new entrants at the end of 2003 and closed to future benefit 
accrual with effect from 31 July 2010.
       2011 2010  2009 2008 2007 
      % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Assumptions used by the actuary to value the liability of the defined benefit plan,  
on 31 December were:
Price inflation (RPI)      2.9 3.5 3.6 2.8 3.3
Price inflation (CPI)      1.9 2.8 n/a n/a n/a
Expected rate of salary increases
 (1)
      n/a n/a 5.1 4.3 5.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
 (2)
        
  - Discretionary (pre - 6 April 1997 accrual in excess of GMP)    2.8 3.4 3.6 2.8 3.3
  - Guaranteed LPI 5% (6 April 1997 - 30 June 2008)     2.8 3.4 3.6 2.8 3.3
  - Guaranteed LPI 2.5% (accrual from 1 July 2008)     2.4 2.5 2.5 2.5 n/a
Rate of increase for deferred pensions      1.9 2.8 3.6 2.8 3.3
Discount rate      4.7 5.5 5.7 6.3 5.8
(1)
 These exclude an age-related allowance for promotional and merit awards.
(2)
 In addition, we have made allowance for the special pension increase guarantees applying to certain executive members of the Scheme. 96          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 5 – Other supporting notes continued
 5.2 Pensions continued
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the Balance Sheet date are based on standard actuarial 
mortality tables and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The assumptions are equivalent to expected longevity  
at age 65 for members in normal health approximately as follows:   
 - Pensioners currently aged 65: ranging from 21.8 to 24.4 years; and     
 - Non-pensioners currently aged 45: ranging from 23.7 years to 26.3 years.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation (DBO) for the year to 31 December 
Present value of DBO at start of year          46.9   47.1 
Group service cost          -   0.9 
Interest cost          2.5   2.6 
Employee contributions          -   0.2 
Actuarial loss/(gain) on change of assumptions         1.4  (1.4) 
Experience loss          0.3   3.0 
Actual benefit payments and expenses          (1.7)  (2.3) 
Past service costs          (0.1)  (0.1) 
Curtailments          -  (3.0) 
Settlements          -  (0.1) 
Present value of DBO at end of year          49.3   46.9 
     
       Expected Expected Expected Expected 
       long-term long-term long-term long-term 
    Fair Fair Fair Fair rate of rate of rate of rate of 
   value value value value return return return return 
   2011 2010 2009 2008  2011 2010 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m % pa % pa % pa % pa
Scheme assets and expected rate of return 
at 31 December 
Equities    18.9   30.6   26.8   21.9   7.5   8.0   8.0   8.2 
Bonds    27.2   9.9   9.5   8.8   3.4   4.5   4.7   4.4 
Property    2.1   1.9   1.3   1.5   6.5   7.4   7.7   6.9 
Cash/non-cash assets    -   1.5   2.8   2.0   2.5   4.0   4.4   3.8 
Insurance policies    0.7   0.7   0.6   0.6   4.7   5.5   5.7   6.3 
Total value of assets    48.9   44.6   41.0   34.8     
Note: The asset values shown are, where relevant, estimated bid values of market securities.
The rates of return quoted are based on actual market yields for bonds. The assumed rates of return on other asset classes where 
market rates of return are not readily available – including, most importantly, equities – are based on the central 10 year median return 
assumptions. We have assumed for this purpose that returns on overseas equities will be the same as on UK equities. 
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year to 31 December 
Fair value of assets at start of year          44.6   41.0 
Expected return on assets           2.8   2.8 
Actuarial gain on plan assets          2.6   1.8 
Group contributions          0.6   1.1 
Employee contributions          -   0.2 
Actual benefit payments          (1.4)  (1.8) 
Administration expenses paid          (0.3)  (0.5)
Fair value of assets at end of year          48.9   44.6 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         97
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Return on assets for the year to 31 December 
Expected return on assets           2.8   2.8 
Actuarial gain on scheme assets          2.6   1.8 
Actual return on assets          5.4   4.6 
     
         2011 2010 
          £m £m
Reconciliation of funded status at 31 December 
Present value of defined benefit obligation          (49.3)  (46.9) 
Assets at fair value           48.9   44.6 
Defined benefit liability          (0.4)  (2.3) 
     
         2011 2010 
          £m £m
Reconciliation of change in funded status for the year to 31 December 
Defined benefit liability at start of year           (2.3)  (6.1) 
Total pension income          0.4   2.5 
Employer contributions actually paid          0.6   1.1 
Gain recognised in SOCIE          0.9   0.2 
Defined benefit liability at end of year          (0.4)  (2.3) 
     
         2011 2010 
          £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement
  - Current service cost           -   0.9 
  - Past service gain           (0.1)  (0.1) 
  - Settlement gain           -  (0.1) 
  - Curtailment gain           -  (3.0) 
Included in operating costs          (0.1)  (2.3) 
  - Expected return on scheme assets          (2.8)  (2.8) 
  - Interest cost          2.5   2.6 
Included in financial expense          (0.3)  (0.2) 
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         (0.4)  (2.5) 
     
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE) 
Actuarial gain recognised in SOCIE during the period         0.9   0.2 
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised at beginning of period        (2.8)  (3.0) 
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised at end of period         (1.9)  (2.8)  98          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 5 – Other supporting notes continued
5.3 Share-based payments
Group employees participate in a number of employee incentive schemes including a Sharesave Scheme, an Unapproved 
Share Option Plan, a Long Term Incentive Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan.
This note explains the accounting policy governing share-based payments and the impact of various share schemes 
operated by the Group.
Accounting policies        
Share-based payments        
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. The fair value of the equity-settled employee share option grants is 
calculated at grant date and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes, with a corresponding adjustment 
to equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options that will vest, except where forfeiture arises 
from share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.     
The fair values of options are calculated using Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo simulation models. Vesting conditions are limited to  
non-market based conditions such as service conditions and performance conditions (adjusted earnings per share and TSR targets).
Any potential employers’ social security liability on options granted is calculated based on the estimated fair value of the options and 
charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes.     
Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisfied by market purchase or the issue of new shares. Shares purchased in 
the market are held by the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust.      
A description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that existed at any time during the period, including the general 
terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options granted, and the method of 
settlement (for example whether in cash or equity) is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payments expense        
The amount recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with employees for the year ended  
31 December 2011 was £1.2 million (2010: £1.5 million), of which £nil (2010: £0.5 million) related to employers’ tax liability.
The outstanding employers’ tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for UK awards as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 was  
£0.8 million and for non-UK awards £0.4 million.
Share options outstanding at the end of the period        
Options outstanding under the 2002 Sharesave Plan and Unapproved Share Option Plan as at 31 December 2011, together with their 
exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
          Weighted 
         Weighted average 
         average remaining 
        Number exercise contractual 
Range of exercise prices        outstanding price (£) life (years) 
£1.30 - £1.40          1,066,458  1.34  1.39
£2.71 - £2.90          1,309  2.73  1.00
£2.91 - £3.00          81,087  3.00  3.38
£3.01 - £4.00          220,509  3.49  2.16
£4.51 - £5.00          94,218  4.73  3.28
£5.01 - £5.50          51,823  5.11  3.64
Total          1,515,404  2.08  1.80  The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         99
Options granted, exercised and lapsed during the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2011 under these share options plans  
were as follows:
        Weighted  Weighted 
         average  average 
        Exercise   Exercise 
       Sharesave Price (£) USOP Price (£)
Awards at 31 December 2009        1,472,840  1.59  476,730  4.18
Exercised during 2010        (57,608)  1.77  (141,884)  3.36
Lapsed during 2010       (149,363)  2.35  (86,071)  5.13
Granted during 2010        215,702  3.49  -  -
Awards at 31 December 2010        1,481,571  1.76  248,775  4.32
Exercised during 2011        (89,928)  2.61  (8,000)  2.98
Lapsed during 2011        (115,055)  2.31  (131,117)  5.12
Granted during 2011        129,158  4.81  -  -
Awards at 31 December 2011        1,405,746  1.97  109,658  3.46
Awards exercisable at 31 December 2011       -  -  109,658  3.46 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £5.70 (2010: £4.75).
  2002 UK and 2002 UK and 2003 UK and 2005 2005 
  International International International Long Term Deferred 
  Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Incentive Bonus 
Arrangement  Plan 3 Year Plan 5 Year Plan 7 Year Plan Plan
Nature of arrangement Save as you Save as you Save as you Share award Share award 
     earn scheme earn scheme earn scheme  plan plan
Date of grant 21 April 2011 21 April 2011 21 April 2011 14 March 2011 29 March 2011
Number of instruments granted  109,037   18,749   1,372   490,472   41,385 
Exercise price £4.72/£5.02
 (1)
 £4.72/£5.02
 (1)
 £4.72  n/a   n/a 
Share price at date of grant £6.33 £6.33 £6.33 £5.99 £6.08
Contractual life (years)  3.5   5.5   7.5   4   4 
Expected option life (years)  3.25   5.25   7.25   4   4 
         Relative TSR 
        Relative TSR performance against 
       performance against comparator group, 
    3 year service 5 year service 7 year service comparator group,  EPS growth and 3 
    period and savings period and savings period and savings EPS growth and 3 year service period 
Vesting conditions requirement requirement requirement year service period for matching awards
Settlement  Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares 
Expected volatility
 (2)
  41.1%  41.1%  41.1%  44.1%  44.1%
Risk free interest rate  1.70%  2.50%  3.10%  n/a  n/a
Expected dividend yield  3.50%  3.50%  3.50%  n/a  n/a
Expected departures  
(per annum from grant date)  5%  5%  5%  10%  15%
Expected outcome of  
non-market based related  
performance condition   n/a    n/a    n/a   100%  100%
Fair value per granted  
instrument determined  
at the grant date  £2.12/£1.99
 (1)
 £2.31/£2.21
 (1)
 £2.44 £5.99/£3.87
 (3)
 £6.08/£3.93
 (3)
Valuation model  Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo
 (4) 
Monte Carlo
 (4)
(1)
  For the Sharesave three year, five year and seven year awards, the exercise price (the first figure) for awards made to employees in the Europe and Israel was 
different from those granted to employees in US and Costa Rica (the second figure).  
(2)  
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility determined by the analysis of daily share prices over a period commensurate with the expected lifetime  
of the award and ending on the date of grant of the award. Due to significant fluctuations in the Company’s share price during the year a uniform rate has been 
used for all the Sharesave options as a reasonable estimate of volatility going-forward.     
(3) 
The first figure represents fair value of awards subject to EPS growth criteria and the second figure represents fair value of awards subject to TSR criteria. 
(4)  
For the LTIP 2005 and DBP matching award, a Monte-Carlo simulation has been used. Under this valuation method, the share price for Vitec is projected at  
the end of the performance period as the TSR for Vitec and the companies in the comparator group. Based on these projections, the number of awards that  
will vest is determined. Thousands of simulations are run and the fair value of the award is calculated as the product of the vesting probability and the share  
price at the date of grant.           100          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Section 5 – Other supporting notes continued
5.4 Leases
Operating leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices, warehouses and factory 
facilities. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
Accounting policies        
Leases        
Operating leases are those which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the rentals of which 
are charges to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
     Land and  Total Land and  Total 
     buildings Other  2011 buildings Other 2010 
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year      0.8  0.2  1.0  0.7  0.1  0.8
Expiring two to five years      12.6  1.0  13.6  7.8  0.9  8.7
Expiring after five years      8.5  -  8.5  9.8  -  9.8
        21.9  1.2  23.1  18.3  1.0  19.3
During the year £6.0 million (2010: £5.7 million) was recognised in the Income Statement in respect of operating lease payments. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         101
5.5 Related party transactions
A related party relationship is based on the ability of one party to control or significantly influence the other. It specifically 
includes Company Directors and key management together with their close family members (these are family members 
or household members who might influence or be influenced by the Director or management) and third party companies 
controlled by such families.
Transactions with related parties    
The following are all material transactions with related parties that occurred during the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Lino Manfrotto is a major shareholder in the Company. On 22 July 2011 Reco Srl, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,  
sold a property located in Bassano del Grappa - Campese, Italy to Mancor Spa, a company owned by the Manfrotto family for  
e1.1 million (£0.9 million) less costs. The sale price represented a fair value for the property as estimated by an independent real  
estate company. 
Abramo Manfrotto was a director of Vitecgroup Italia Spa until 10 May 2011 and is also Managing Director of Alu Spa (“Alu”)  
(disposed of by the Group in December 2003). Products and services valued at £0.1 million (2010: £0.4 million) were sold to  
Alu up to the date Abramo Manfrotto ceased to be a director of Vitecgroup Italia Spa.
Transactions with key management personnel    
Details of Directors’ remuneration along with their pension, share incentive and bonus arrangements are shown in the Remuneration 
Report. Holdings of the Company’s shares by Directors are shown in the Directors’ Report.
The remuneration of the ten (2010: seven) members of the Operations Executive in 2011, including the Executive Directors is  
shown in the table below.
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Salaries         1.9  1.6
Performance-related bonuses         1.5  1.3
Share-based payment expense         0.7  0.5
Short-term employee benefits          0.2  0.1
The Group also contributes to a number of pension arrangements, each one specific to the country in which the individual members  
of the Operations Executive is based.           
  102          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
5.6 Principal Group investments
The Group’s principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2011 are listed below. All subsidiaries are 100% owned within the Group.
        Country of incorporation
Vitec Group US Holdings Inc           USA 
Vitec Holdings Limited           Guernsey 
Vitec Investments Limited
 (1)
           UK 
Videocom  
ALC Broadcast Limited           UK 
Anton/Bauer Inc           USA 
Vitec Videocom Limited (formerly Camera Dynamics Limited)
 (1) (2)
         UK 
Vitec Videocom Limitada (formerly Camera Dynamics Limitada)
 (2) 
        Costa Rica 
Vitec Videocom Inc (formerly Camera Dynamics Inc)
 (2) 
         USA 
LCB Beteiligungs GmbH           Germany 
Litepanels Inc           USA 
Integrated Microwave Technologies Inc           USA 
Haigh-Farr, Inc           USA 
Imaging & Staging   
Manfrotto Distribution Inc           USA 
Vitecgroup Italia SpA           Italy 
Manfrotto Lighting Limited (formerly Lastolite Limited)
 (2)
          UK 
Manfrotto Bags Limited           Israel 
Services   
Vitec Broadcast Services Inc           USA
(1) 
Indicates companies directly owned by the parent company.
(2) 
Name changed with effect from 3 January 2012.   
Exemption has been taken under section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 to list all the subsidiary undertakings of the Group. A full list of 
related subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Company’s next Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
5.7 Subsequent events
There were no events after the Balance Sheet date that require disclosure.
Section 5 – Other supporting notes continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         103
         2011 2010 
        Notes £m £m
Fixed assets    
Tangible fixed assets         f)   1.6  1.3
Investments in subsidiary undertakings         g)   308.4  293.2
            310.0  294.5
Current assets   
Debtors         h)   3.8  1.9
Cash at bank and in hand          -  2.9
           3.8 4.8
Creditors - due within one year         i)   (19.5) (8.2)
Provisions - due within one year         j)   (0.2)  -
Net current liabilities          (15.9) (3.4)
Total assets less current liabilities          294.1  291.1
Creditors - due after more than one year         i)   (103.0) (95.8)
Provisions - due after more than one year         j)   (0.6)  -
Net assets          190.5  195.3
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital         k)   8.7  8.6
Share premium account         l)   9.8  9.6
Revaluation reserve         l)   0.9  0.9
Merger and other reserves         l)   55.3  55.3
Profit and loss account         l)   115.8  120.9
Equity shareholders’ funds          190.5  195.3 
Approved by the Board on 29 February 2012 and signed on its behalf by:    
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
The Vitec Group plc 
Registered in England and Wales with number 227691
Company Balance Sheet  
 As at 31 December 2011 104          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Profit for the financial year           4.7  2.3
Dividends paid           (8.2) (7.9)
Retained profit for the year           (3.5) (5.6)
Own shares (Employee Benefit Trust) purchased          (2.8) (1.1)
Share based payment charge           1.2  1.0
New shares issued           0.3  0.6
Net increase in shareholders’ funds           (4.8) (5.1)
Opening shareholders’ funds          195.3  200.4
Closing shareholders’ funds          190.5  195.3 
Reconciliation of Movements  
in Shareholders’ Funds  
 For the year ended 31 December 2011 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         105
a) Basis of presentation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). 
As permitted by section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results of the parent 
company, has not been presented. 
Under FRS 1 (revised) the Company is exempt from the requirement to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows 
are included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds that  
it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to  
that standard. 
b) Accounting policies  
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the financial statements.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on that day. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the year-end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year-end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such differences are recognised in the Profit and Loss account.
Fixed assets and depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost or valuation of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other fixed assets are depreciated as follows: 
  Freehold buildings    up to 50 years
  Leasehold improvements   over the remaining period of the lease
  Motor vehicles    3 to 4 years
  Equipment, fixtures and fittings  3 to 10 years
Fixed assets are stated at cost except that, as allowed under FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, on adoption of that standard in the year 
ending 31 December 2000 when the book amounts of revalued land and buildings were retained. These book values are based on the 
previous revaluation on 31 March 1989 and have not been subsequently revalued. 
Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. A list of principal subsidiaries directly 
owned by the Company is contained within Note 5.6 “Principal Group investments” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Leases 
Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis. 
Pensions 
The Company participates in the Group’s defined benefit scheme operated in the UK, which was closed to future benefit accrual  
with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Company are now offered membership of the defined contribution scheme.  
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the  
Group defined benefit scheme’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as a defined contribution scheme.  
The amounts charged against profits represent contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period. 
Further details of the UK pension scheme are disclosed in Note 5.2 “Pensions” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. Further details are disclosed in Note 5.3 “Share-based payments”  
of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment. 
Notes to the Company financial statements 106          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
c) Employees          
         2011 2010 
Employee costs, including Directors’ remuneration, comprise:        £m £m
 Wages and salaries          3.0  2.2
 Employers’ social security costs           0.2  0.2
 Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes         0.1  0.2
 Share-based payment charge
 (1) 
          1.2  1.0
            4.5  3.6 
(1) 
Share-based payment charge represents the Group total.
         2011 2010
Average number of employees during the year        20 16
Further details of Directors’ remuneration and share options are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
d) Audit fees 
The audit fee in respect of the parent Company was £0.1 million.
Further details of the Group audit fee are disclosed in Note 2.1 “Profit before tax” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
e) Dividends        
         2011 2010 
The aggregate amounts of dividends comprise:        £m £m
Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year      4.8   4.6 
Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year         3.4   3.3 
            8.2   7.9 
A final dividend of 12.5 pence per ordinary share has been recommended by the Board.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         107
f) Tangible fixed assets            
        Freehold  Equipment, 
        Land and Leasehold fixtures and 
       Total buildings buildings fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation    
At 1 January 2011         3.2  2.6  0.4  0.2
Additions         0.4  -  0.4  -
Disposals         (0.5)  -  (0.4) (0.1)
At 31 December 2011         3.1  2.6  0.4  0.1
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2011         1.9  1.3  0.4  0.2
Charge for the year         0.1  0.1  -  -
Disposals         (0.5)  -  (0.4) (0.1)
At 31 December 2011         1.5  1.4  -  0.1
Net book value     
At 1 January 2011         1.3  1.3  -  -
At 31 December 2011         1.6  1.2  0.4  - 
Freehold land and buildings disclosed at a re-valued net book value of £1.2 million would have been stated under historical cost at  
£0.7 million and a net book value of £nil.     
The revalued amount of the land and buildings has been retained as allowed for by the transitional provisions set out in FRS 15  
‘Tangible Fixed Assets’.
The Company had the following annual commitments under operating leases:
         Land and buildings
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Expiring in two to five years         0.2 0.1
g) Investments in subsidiary undertakings   
         Investment  
         in other  
        Total shares Loans 
        £m £m £m
Cost and net book value 
At 1 January 2011          293.2   204.9   88.3 
Loan increases          15.2   -   15.2 
At 31 December 2011          308.4   204.9   103.5  108          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
h) Debtors           
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
 Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings           1.6  0.9
 Other debtors           0.7  0.4
 Derivative financial instruments - forward and option exchange contracts        1.3  0.1
 Deferred tax assets           -  0.2
 Prepayments and accrued income           0.2  0.3
            3.8  1.9 
i) Creditors           
         2011 2010 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
 Bank overdraft (unsecured)           9.2  -
 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings           5.2  5.1
 Derivative financial instruments - forward and option exchange contracts        1.3  0.1
 Other creditors           0.7  0.4
 Accruals and deferred income           3.1  2.6
            19.5  8.2 
Amount falling due after more than one year   
Bank loans (unsecured)           56.6   34.8 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries           46.4   61.0 
           103.0   95.8 
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011 (2010: £nil).
j) Provisions            
          Onerous 
          lease 
          £m
At 1 January 2011           - 
Charged to the Profit and Loss           0.8 
At 31 December 2011           0.8 
Due within 1 year           0.2 
Due after more than 1 year           0.6 
             0.8 
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Company entered into  
in previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the lease or earlier if exited.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         109
k) Share capital      
         Number of Nominal 
         shares  value £m
Issued and fully paid     
At 1 January 2011           43,152,334   8.6 
Exercise of share options           103,184   0.1 
At 31 December 2011           43,255,518   8.7 
Details of the share-based payments and share options are stated in Note 5.3 “Share-based payments” of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements.
l) Reserves      
       Share  Merger Profit 
       premium Revaluation  and other and loss 
       account reserve  reserves account 
       £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011         9.6  0.9  55.3  120.9
Dividends paid         -  -  - (8.2)
Own shares (Employee Benefit Trust) purchased        -  -  - (2.8)
Share based payment charge         -  -  -  1.2
New shares issued         0.2  -  -  -
Profit for the year         -  -  -  4.7
          9.8  0.9  55.3  115.8 
Other reserves represents the capitalisation of the share premium account, £22.7 million in 1989 and £37.3 million in 1995, less  
£16.0 million of share repurchases in 1995.
m) Related party transactions 
The Company has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management personnel as disclosed in the Remuneration Report 
and Note 5.5 “Related party transactions” of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. There are no other related party transactions  
to disclose.
n) Post Balance Sheet events 
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board on 29 February 2012. There were no events after the Balance Sheet  
date that require disclosure. 110          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
      2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue      351.0 309.6 315.1 337.7 273.8
Operating profit before Significant items      34.5 27.7 24.5 38.4 32.6
Net interest on bank borrowings      (1.9) (1.2) (1.6) (3.1) (2.6)
Other financial income/(expense)      0.4 0.2 (0.2) 0.1 0.3
Profit before tax and Significant items      33.0 26.7 22.7 35.4 30.3
Cash generated from operating activities      39.9 34.6 42.8 44.3 33.8
Net interest paid      (1.8) (1.2) (2.1) (3.6) (3.0)
Tax paid      (11.1) (0.9) (4.3) (6.7) (9.5)
Operating cash flow      27.0 32.5 36.4 34.0 21.3
Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets   (9.7) (14.5) (13.7) (15.0) (16.6)
Free cash flow
 (1)
      17.3 18.0 22.7 19.0 4.7
Capital employed     
Intangible fixed assets      75.0 51.8 58.2 71.6 55.5
Tangible fixed assets      50.1 53.4 54.6 63.6 45.6
Investment in equity-accounted investment      - - - - 1.3
Other net assets      39.5 27.0 21.9 34.9 21.8
        164.6 132.2 134.7 170.1 124.2
Financed by     
Shareholders’ funds - equity      129.3 124.3 111.2 133.4 97.3
Net debt      50.4 28.1 40.6 53.0 38.4
Deferred tax      (15.1) (20.2) (17.1) (16.3) (11.5)
         164.6 132.2 134.7 170.1 124.2
Statistics     
Operating profit (%) before Significant items      9.8 8.9 7.8 11.4 11.9
Effective tax rate (%) before Significant items     32.7 33.0 31.7 33.9 37.0
Adjusted basic earnings per share (p)
 (2)
      51.4 41.9 36.5 55.9 46.0
Basic earnings per share (p)      34.7 42.8 7.5 48.0 44.1
Dividends per share (p)      20.5 19.0 18.3 18.3 17.8
Year-end mid-market share price (p)      555.7 585.0 389.0 235.5 585.0
(1)
  Free cash flow is the cash generated from operations less interest, tax and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  
excluding goodwill.
(2)
 Differences between Adjusted basic and Basic earnings per share arise from Significant items in the years in question.    
 
Five Year Financial Summary 
 Years ended 31 December The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011         111
Shareholder enquiries
For enquiries about your shareholding, such as dividends 
or lost share certificate(s), please contact the Company’s 
registrars: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Telephone 0871 664 0300  
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras.  
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday)  
or if calling from overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3399.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company, in conjunction with Capita Registrars, offers 
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables shareholders to 
reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in the Company. 
For shareholders to apply the Final Dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2011 to the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, 
application forms must be received by the Registrars by no  
later than 20 April 2012. Details on the Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan can be obtained from Capita Registrars using the  
contact details above. Alternatively you can email them  
at shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Online services and electronic voting
The Company has arranged with Capita Registrars to use its 
online services. By logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com and 
selecting Portal (Shareholders) you can make a transaction or 
dividend payment enquiry, add or change a dividend mandate  
or change your registered address.
The Company will again be making use of Capita Registrars’ 
electronic voting facility. By logging on to  
www.capitashareportal.com and selecting The Vitec Group 
plc you will find details of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, 
including the venue and text of resolutions. Shareholders have 
the facility to vote for, against or withhold the resolutions and 
can split or restrict votes, appoint the Chairman of the meeting 
or a third party as their proxy and include any instruction text. 
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may use 
the CREST voting facility as provided by Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited. To use the above facilities, shareholders will need to 
input a unique User ID that can be applied for on your first visit 
to the site. To be allocated a User ID you will need your Investor 
Code, which can be found on your dividend stationery and  
share certificates. User IDs previously issued will still be valid.
Should you experience any difficulties using these facilities, 
please contact the Capita Registrars helpline on the numbers 
given above.
International dividend payment service
Overseas shareholders may wish to consider electing to  
receive their dividends in a local currency instead of in  
Sterling. Details of this facility can be obtained from  
Capita Registrars using the contact details on this page or  
by visiting www.capitaregistrars.com/international/. Any election  
to receive dividends in local currency in respect of the Final 
Dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 payable on  
11 May 2012 must be received by Capita Registrars no later 
than the record date for the final dividend, 20 April 2012.
Share price information
The middle market price of a share of The Vitec Group plc  
on 30 December 2011 was 555.75 pence. During the year,  
the share price fluctuated between 488 pence and 661.75 
pence. The Company’s share price is available from the Group’s 
website www.vitecgroup.com, with a 15-minute delay, and from 
the Financial Times website www.ft.com, with a similar delay. 
Up-to-date market information and the Company’s share price  
is also available from the Cityline service operated by the 
Financial Times by telephoning 09058 171 690. 
The Company sends to its shareholders each year an Annual 
Report. Copies of this and of public announcements and 
financial results are published on the Company’s website  
www.vitecgroup.com.
Financial calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2011
  Number %  Number % 
Shares held of holders of holders of shares of shares
Up to 1,000 538  51.7  209,094  0.5
1,001 to 5,000 281  27.0  666,010  1.5
5,001 to 10,000 65  6.3  479,776  1.1
10,001 to 50,000 71  6.8  1,590,795  3.7
50,001 to 100,000 23  2.2  1,680,524  3.9
100,001 and over 62  6.0  38,629,319  89.3
 1,040  100  43,255,518  100
Institutions 
and companies 357  34.3  40,956,303  94.7
Individuals including  
Directors and their 
families 683  65.7 2,299,215  5.3
 1,040  100  43,255,518  100
Ex-dividend date for 2011 final dividend 18 April 2012
Record date for 2011 final dividend 20 April 2012
Annual General Meeting 8 May 2012
Interim management statement 8 May 2012
2011 final dividend payment date 11 May 2012
Announcement of 2012 half year results 22 August 2012
Proposed 2012 interim dividend payment date October 2012
Interim management statement November 2012
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar 112          The Vitec Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Notes  Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by Royles Print Ltd
Vitec is an international Group 
principally serving customers  
in the broadcast, photographic 
and military, aerospace and 
government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well 
known premium brands on 
which its customers worldwide 
rely. Vitec is organised in three 
divisions: Videocom, Imaging  
& Staging and Services.
Videocom designs and 
distributes systems and 
products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, film and 
video production and MAG.
Imaging & Staging designs, 
manufactures and distributes 
equipment and accessories  
for photography, video  
and events. 
Services provides equipment 
rental, workflow design and 
technical support for camera, 
video, audio, fibre optic and 
wireless technology used by 
TV production teams and  
film crews. 
 
More information can be  
found at our website:  
www.vitecgroup.com
The Vitec Group plc
Directors’ Report
Highlights 01 
The Group at a glance 02 
Chairman’s Statement 04 
Group Chief Executive’s Review 06 
Financial Review 14 
Videocom Division 20
Imaging & Staging Division 22 
Services Division 24 
The Vitec Group Operations Executive 25
 Board of Directors 26 
 
Remuneration Report  31 
Corporate Responsibility Report 42
Corporate Governance  50 
Independent Auditors’ Report 58 
 
Consolidated financial statements 2011
Introduction and table of contents 59 
Consolidated Income Statement 60
 Consolidated Statement  61  
of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 62
 Consolidated Statement  63  
of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  64  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  65 
 
Company financial statements 2011
Company Balance Sheet 103 
 Reconciliation of Movements 104  
in Shareholders’ Funds 
Notes to the Company financial statements 105  
 
Five Year Financial Summary 110  
 Shareholder Information and 111 
Financial Calendar
Financial 15
Total Shareholder Return 38
Environmental impact 45
Health & Safety 46
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Board and Operations Executive monitor 
a number of financial and non-financial KPIs to 
measure our performance over time. Details of  
our KPIs can be found on the following pages: The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Vitec Group plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond  
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 8332 4600
F +44 (0)20 8948 8277
info@vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com
Registered in England no. 227691
