 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Inside this report
Corporate 
Governance
52  Chairman’s Report
60  Audit Committee Report
Remuneration  
Report
31  Remuneration Report 
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
64 Independent Auditor’s Report 
Corporate 
Responsibility
44  Approach
45 Business Ethics 
46  Environment 
48 Employees 
51 Community & Charitable Donations 
Financial Statements
65  Table of Contents
66  Primary Statements 
71  Section 1 - Basis of preparation 
73 Section 2 - Results for the year 
81 Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities 
92  Section 4 - Capital structure
99  Section 5 - Other supporting notes 
109 Company Financial Statements 
116 Five Year Financial Summary 
117  Shareholder Information and  
 Financial Calendar 
Directors’ Report
01  Highlights 
02  Business model 
03  Behind every great image 
04  Chairman’s Statement 
06  Group Chief Executive’s Review 
08  Market Update: Broadcast & Video 
10 Market Update: Photographic 
12 Market Update: Military, Aerospace  
 and Government 
13 Market Update: Global presence 
14  Financial Review
20  Videocom Division 
22  Imaging Division 
24  Services Division 
25 Operations Executive 
26  Board of Directors
28  Directors’ Report
The Vitec Group plc website
Annual Report & Accounts online
www.vitecgroup.com
www.vitecgroup.com/annual_report_2012
Where 
the story 
comes to 
life
The Vitec Group plc DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 1
•  Good Broadcast & Video performance, including a strong contribution from Camera 
Corps at the London 2012 Olympics
• Photographic business gained market share and grew sales of Powerbrand products
• MAG activities benefited from the integration and strong performance of Haigh-Farr
• 13.9% increase in operating profit* and 160 bps increase in operating margin* to 11.4%
• Profit before tax* rose by 9.7% to £36.2 million
• Streamlining of certain operations planned in 2013 to strengthen the business 
• Recommended 8.0% increase in final dividend to 13.5 pence per share
Highlights
Key points
Group
£39.3m 55.8p £63.7m £345.3m
Videocom Division Imaging Division** Services Division
Revenue Revenue Revenue
Operating profit* Operating profit* Operating profit
Operating margin* Operating margin* Operating margin
£146.2m £157.9m £33.0m
£15.8m £22.9m £1.2m
10.8% 14.5% 3.6%
Up
150bps
Up
130bps
Up
170bps
Up
24.4%
Up
4.6%
Up
100%
Up
7.3%
Up
4.4%
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.  
In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
**  Excluding the Staging business that was disposed of during 2012.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Revenue Operating proﬁt
*
 
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share* Net debt 
            £315.1m
           £309.6m 
                  £351.0m
                £345.3m
       £24.5m
           £27.7m 
                    £34.5m
                           £39.3m
        36.5p
             41.9p 
                      51.4p
                           55.8p
             £40.6m
  £28.1m 
                     £50.4m
                                £63.7m
09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 
Down
4.6% 2 The Vitec Group plc
Vitec is an international Group principally serving customers in the Broadcast  
& Video, Photographic and Military, Aerospace and Government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well known, premium brands on which its customers 
worldwide rely. Vitec is organised in three Divisions: Videocom, Imaging and Services. 
What do we do?
•  We design, manufacture and distribute high quality branded products and services that 
enable end users to capture exceptional images
 - Our products primarily attach to or support a camera – including film, broadcast and   
  photographic applications
 -  We also provide high-end services to major broadcasters
How d o we do it?
•  We design and develop high performance products 
• We either manufacture or out-source production to high quality suppliers
• We manufacture our products efficiently and manage our costs closely
• We distribute our products through our comprehensive global network
Who are our customers? 
•  Our customers are primarily broadcasters, production companies, systems integrators, 
distributors, retailers and government agencies 
•  Our end users are typically camera operators, broadcast cameramen, photographers  
or government employees 
Where do we do business?
•  We manufacture and distribute our products and services from our facilities  
in 12 countries
• We employ around 1,900 people in our business
• Our products and services are sold in over 100 countries 
What sets us apart from our competitors?
•  We work closely with our customers to develop innovative solutions tailored to their needs 
and continually invest in new product development
•  We have strong proprietary designs and own leading brands with an excellent reputation 
for high quality products
•  We typically have the number 1 or number 2 market share positions in each of our  
product categories
•  We operate using the core values of the Vitec Mindset – product excellence, creative 
solutions, integrity, customer focus and collaboration
Videocom designs and distributes systems and products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, film and video production and MAG.
Imaging designs, manufactures and distributes equipment and accessories  
for photography and video.
Services provides equipment rental, workflow design and technical support  
to TV production teams and film crews. 
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/about_us
Business model
Broadcast & Video
We provide high quality, fail safe 
equipment for broadcasters  
and videographers
MAG 
We provide high deﬁnition 
microwave technologies and 
antennas for mission-critical 
applications
Photographic 
We provide a complete range of 
creative support equipment for 
pro photographers, photographic 
enthusiasts and social recorders
Market Update
Turn to page 8
Market Update
Turn to page 10
Market Update
Turn to page 12
p
Turn to page 10 DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3
For over 100 years, through every innovation in photography, film and digital 
image-making, Vitec businesses have developed a powerful portfolio of brands  
and products that have enabled some of the most amazing moments to be 
captured under some of the most challenging conditions. 
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/brands
* National Geographic bags are manufactured and distributed under licence.
All rights reserved. The above includes some of our trademarks and all names, characters, images, marks and logos shown are protected by national and international trademark, copyright and 
other intellectual property laws, conventions, treaties and rights and are owned by The Vitec Group plc or its subsidiaries. Our marks and our interest in them are valuable commercial property 
and will be protected from infringement where deemed necessary.
Behind every great image
Videocom Division
Imaging Division
Services Division
* 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Premium broadcast equipment
Supports / LED lighting / mobile power / bags / prompters / robotic camera systems
Law enforcement and defence microwave video solutions
Video transmission / receive systems / speciality antennas
TV news & broadcast microwave video solutions
Video transmission / receive systems
Premium photographic equipment 
Supports / bags / LED lighting / lighting accessories
Broadcast production support
Equipment rental and used equipment sales / ﬁbre optic integration and installation 4 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and Strategy
In my first statement as Chairman I am pleased to report that the Group has  
delivered a strong set of financials with growth in operating profit*. This is an especially 
pleasing set of results considering that as the year progressed, the macroeconomic 
environment became more challenging particularly in the US and Europe. A notable 
success for the Group was its involvement in the London 2012 Olympics with our 
equipment and services widely used to capture exceptional images that conveyed  
the excitement of a truly memorable sporting occasion. 
In the delivery of this result, the Board has focused upon the strategy of the Group 
providing vital products and services that support the capture of exceptional images  
to our customers in the Broadcast & Video, Photographic and MAG markets. We 
acquired Camera Corps in April 2012 which provides speciality remote camera 
systems, including the Q-Ball used widely at the key events of 2012. We also disposed 
of the non-core Staging business in August 2012 enabling management to focus  
upon delivering the Company’s strategy. We have reviewed our cost base seeking  
to improve margins and drive operational efficiencies to ensure that our businesses  
are competitive and able to deliver in these uncertain markets.
Dividend
As a result of our financial performance in 2012 and our confidence in the future,  
the Board has recommended a final dividend of 13.5 pence per ordinary share  
(12.5 pence in 2011). The final dividend, if approved at the 2013 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), will be paid on Friday, 17 May 2013. 
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2012
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
22.0 pence
13.5 pence
8.5 pence
The Group has delivered a strong set of financial 
results in 2012 and our involvement in the London 
2012 Olympics was a notable success with our 
equipment and services widely used to capture 
exceptional images. 
Governance report 
Turn to page 52
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on his induction to Vitec
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
Up
7.3% DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Board and Governance
Since my appointment as a director on 15 March 2012, I have 
succeeded Michael Harper as Chairman with effect from 1 June 
2012 and I would like to thank Michael for his excellent 
Chairmanship and service to Vitec for over eight years. I have 
undertaken a thorough induction to the Company, its products 
and services, meeting numerous shareholders and advisors, 
visiting our major businesses in the US, UK and Italy, and 
meeting large numbers of our people. 
I have got to know our executive management team led by
Stephen Bird and am confident that we have a talented team
in place to deliver on our strategy.
The Board will undergo further changes in the coming months. 
Maria Richter, who has been an independent Non-Executive 
Director since February 2007 will not be seeking re-appointment 
at the 2013 AGM. I would like to thank Maria for her considerable 
contribution to Vitec during this period of service. We will 
therefore go forward after the AGM in 2013 with a slimmed  
down Board of seven Directors including myself as Chairman, 
four independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors. In order to ensure Board continuity during my first year 
as Chairman, Nigel Moore will remain as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Having been 
appointed a Director in March 2004, the Board and I confirm  
that Nigel continues to provide rigorous independence and 
commitment to the role. His experience particularly on financial 
matters, governance and the management of risk is considered 
vital at this time of transition for the Board. The Board and I  
will continue to consider the issue of succession within the 
Board and will announce our plans in due course. 
The Board is responsible for setting Group strategy and 
charging the executive with delivery of that strategy including 
the management of resources and associated risks and 
controls. The Board has implemented a robust governance 
structure to manage those risks. The Corporate Governance 
report on pages 52 to 63 sets out the structure of our 
governance arrangements. Good corporate governance is 
central to the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder 
value. The Board set itself several key objectives in 2012 
against which it has measured performance and has further 
set new objectives for 2013. The detail of performance  
against the 2012 objectives is summarised in the Corporate 
Governance report. We have built upon the 2011 externally 
facilitated Board evaluation with an internally facilitated 
evaluation in 2012 and I can report that the Board and  
its individual directors are working effectively, driving 
management to deliver upon agreed strategy whilst  
ensuring that risks are understood and managed.
We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code throughout 2012 and continue to strive to evolve our 
governance arrangements to comply with emerging best 
practice and to explain constructively the rationale for any 
divergence from the Code’s principles and provisions.
Annual General Meeting
Our 2013 AGM will be held on Wednesday, 15 May 2013 and 
the Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes accompany this 
Annual Report. I look forward to the opportunity to meet our 
shareholders at this meeting.
Our People
The Company’s long-term success is dependent upon the 
diversity, dedication and commitment of all our people. We 
have invested in the development of succession plans and 
talent development. We have ensured that all our people have 
a common set of values captured in our Code of Business 
Conduct. We have further made good progress on Health 
and Safety both in terms of safe working practices and the 
reporting of performance. Our Corporate Responsibility Report 
on pages 44 to 51 details this more fully.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our 
people for their continuing commitment and passion for the 
Company’s products, services and customers thus enabling 
the delivery of a strong set of financial results in 2012. 
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 6 The Vitec Group plc
Strategy
We have continued to deliver our strategy to focus on three markets with organic growth 
opportunities, supplemented where appropriate with selective acquisitions. Our three  
markets are:
1: Broadcast & Video 
The Broadcast & Video market is served by our Videocom businesses together with 
the Services business, which supply a variety of products and services to assist in the 
capture and transmission of video images. Vitec has leading products and brands aimed 
at television networks and studios, film-makers, outside broadcasters and corporate, 
religious and educational entities. Our strategy is to maintain our premium product 
offerings and market share with traditional broadcast customers whilst developing 
specific products and new channels focused on the needs of the cameraman in the 
video segment. Where attractive and feasible, we will leverage our products from  
the Broadcast market into other markets, for example the use of our batteries and 
chargers for the US medical carts market.
We have increased our share of this market through our ability to bundle products 
for broadcast studios and on-location needs. In the video sector we have benefited 
from a major new range of supports, the Sachtler Ace, designed for the needs of the 
independent cameraman. 
2: Photographic 
The Photographic market, served by our Imaging Division, has continued to supply  
its range of products (tripods, heads, bags and lighting supports and controls) to the 
professional photographic segment. We have also continued to supply a range of 
tripods, bags, lighting and other photographic products to the consumer segment  
as part of our Manfrotto Powerbrand sales initiative. 
In the professional segment, we continued to serve the traditional photographic  
speciality stores and in the consumer segment, we increased our penetration in 
consumer electronics stores and in mass merchandise outlets. We continued to  
grow our online sales of products to both the professional and consumer segments. 
Based on independent research data, we have increased our share of the tripods  
market in the US and in Europe. 
Vitec continues to deliver its strategy and increase 
its share in key markets. We have successfully 
integrated some value enhancing acquisitions 
during the year. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3: Military, Aerospace and Government (MAG) 
The MAG market is addressed through the IMT and  
Haigh-Farr businesses and is reported as part of our Videocom 
segment. IMT is a technology leader for mission-critical visual 
communication and surveillance products for security and 
defence applications. Haigh-Farr is a world-leading designer 
and manufacturer of high quality application-specific antennas 
serving this market. 
The MAG market is dependent on the level of investment  
by the US Government and key US Government agencies. 
Although the longer-term prospects for our IMT business  
remain good, there is limited visibility around the award of 
significant contracts from agencies that are experiencing  
budget constraints. The Haigh-Farr business that was acquired 
in 2011 is performing strongly and ahead of our pre-acquisition 
expectations in this challenging market. 
Performance overview 
Vitec increased profits* and delivered improved margins*  
in each Division during 2012, against a background of a more 
challenging macroeconomic environment, particularly in the 
second half of the year. We have been able to achieve this 
through maintaining and in some cases increasing share in  
our key markets, making earnings enhancing acquisitions,  
and by a continued focus on cost management.
Revenue fell by 1.6% to £345.3 million (2011: £351.0 million). 
There was a good performance in our Broadcast & Video 
businesses which benefited from the acquisition of Camera 
Corps and its strong performance at the London 2012 
Olympics. The Olympics contributed approximately £3.0 million 
of operating profit in 2012 including a significant profit from 
Camera Corps. The Photographic business performed well 
and ceased the distribution of some lower margin third-party 
products. Our MAG activities benefited from the integration  
and growth of Haigh-Farr which compensated for a challenging 
year in our IMT business. 
A focus on improving margins and controlling costs resulted in 
a 13.9% increase in reported operating profit* to £39.3 million 
(2011: £34.5 million) and a 160 bps increase in operating 
margin* to 11.4% (2011: 9.8%). 
Profit before tax* was 9.7% higher at £36.2 million. Adjusted 
earnings per share* were up 8.6% at 55.8 pence per share 
(2011: 51.4 pence per share). Group profit before tax of  
£16.1 million (2011: £23.8 million) included the impact of 
charges associated with acquired businesses incorporating a 
goodwill impairment charge relating to IMT and the impact of 
the disposal of the Staging business.
Free cash flow
+
 was £10.8 million (2011: £16.5 million)  
and total cash outflow of £15.1 million (2011: £22.1 million) 
reflected outflows relating to acquisitions and disposals, 
purchases of shares to meet share plan commitments  
and dividend payments. 
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements 
to our existing range and in our research, development and 
engineering capabilities. 2012 has seen a greater level of 
product development collaboration across our Divisions,  
with technologies such as LED lighting being developed to  
serve both Broadcast & Video and Photographic markets.  
We continue to invest around 4% of Group product sales  
into research and development.
Acquisitions and disposals
We acquired Camera Corps in April 2012 for consideration of 
£8.7 million. The business delivered an excellent result in 2012, 
benefiting from the UEFA Euro 2012 Championships and the 
London 2012 Olympics.
We sold the non-core and loss-making Staging business in 
August 2012. The exit from this business will allow management 
to focus attention on our core markets and future priorities. 
Streamlining of certain operations planned in 2013
Vitec has continued to make good progress in improving its 
margins and managing its cost base. As part of this process, 
the Group is streamlining certain operations by downsizing 
selected activities in the UK, Israel and US and expanding 
its manufacturing capabilities in Costa Rica to further shift to 
lower cost manufacturing. These planned actions are intended 
to better position the Group for the future whilst delivering an 
attractive return. These plans are expected to incur one-off 
costs of approximately £9.0 million, of which £8.0 million will  
be cash. 
Outlook
Against the background of a challenging economic environment 
and our limited order visibility, Vitec has decided to take 
appropriate actions to streamline certain operations. These 
actions better position Vitec for the future and the Board 
remains conﬁdent about the prospects for the Group.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
3
market
strategy
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
  Free cash ﬂow: cash generated from operations in the ﬁnancial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid. 8 The Vitec Group plc
Increase in video 
There has been a significant increase in 
the amount of video being shot globally. 
This has been stimulated by the ease with 
which videographers can capture, edit 
and distribute content (for example, over 
the internet and the rise in popularity of 
hand-held devices). It has also grown 
thanks to the increased video capabilities 
of photographic cameras. The growth  
in video production and the subsequent 
shortening of the replacement cycle  
for cameras affects demand for our 
products and services. 
High deﬁnition transition  
and higher image quality 
Television production is increasingly 
being shot in high definition which has 
resulted in studios being upgraded, 
camera replacement cycles shortening 
and increased demand for our products. 
The first wave of high definition is well 
underway and largely complete in certain 
countries. As producers seek to shoot 
higher quality images, ultra high definition 
cameras are being manufactured, 
although the timing and extent of their 
adoption and thus the effect on demand 
for our products is uncertain. 
Broadcasters’ capital expenditure
Broadcasters’ ability and willingness 
to incur capital expenditure on the 
construction or refurbishment of 
studios depends partly on their financial 
performance. Those broadcasters reliant 
on subscription income such as Sky 
and ESPN have performed well despite 
the downturn between 2009 and 2011 
and have expanded with new operations 
globally. Likewise in emerging markets 
such as Brazil, China and the states of 
the former Soviet Union, there has been 
a desire to upgrade old facilities and 
the financial capability to do so. Those 
broadcasters reliant on advertising 
expenditure have largely recovered 
since the downturn but tend to be 
more susceptible to macroeconomic 
conditions. The savings and efficiencies 
offered by LED lighting compared with 
traditional lighting drive the replacement 
of those products too.
The Growth Drivers
Broadcast & Video
Vitec supplies the Broadcast & Video market  
with a variety of products and services to 
assist in the capture and transmission 
of video images. The products 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec are 
camera supports (pedestals, tripods and  
heads), robotic camera systems, bags,  
LED lighting, prompters, mobile power  
(batteries and chargers) and microwave systems.  
The services provided by Vitec include broadcast 
equipment rental and installation.
We estimate that the Broadcast & Video market for 
products and services supplied by Vitec is worth around 
£700 million. This includes the traditional broadcast and 
film markets as well as the video production market.
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Market Update DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Supports
With our multiple brands, comprising 
Vinten, Sachtler, OConnor and 
Manfrotto, providing broadcast and 
video manual supports, we have the 
premium position and largest market 
share. Vinten mainly operates in the 
broadcast studio segment, Sachtler and 
Manfrotto in the broadcast location and 
video segments and OConnor in the 
film segment. We also supply robotic 
camera systems mainly for news and 
sports applications through our Vinten 
Radamec and Camera Corps brands.
Bags
With our Petrol and Kata brands, we are 
the number one, by value, in the supply 
of bags for the video segment.
Prompting
Autoscript is the number one, by value, 
for prompting equipment to the 
broadcast market. 
Lighting
Litepanels led the way in the adoption  
of LED lighting in the video segment  
and “on location” for broadcast. It is  
now also the leader in the use of LEDs 
for use in broadcast studios.
Mobile Power
Anton/Bauer is the leading brand with 
a number one position, by value, in the 
after-market for camera batteries and 
chargers in the broadcast sector.
Microwave Systems
IMT is number two in the broadcast 
segment and number one in the US 
video segment, where its equipment is 
also used in sports and entertainment 
applications.
Broadcast equipment 
To maintain our share and position in 
manual camera supports and portable 
power and to grow our share in robotic 
camera systems, in LED lighting and  
in microwave systems outside the  
US. We are investing in increasing  
our service offering to customers by 
creating bespoke one-stop solutions.
Broadcast services 
To focus on large events where higher 
production values are most needed  
and to secure multi-year contracts  
for those events. 
Video 
To develop new products and new 
sales channels to grow our share of this 
fast growing segment which we serve 
primarily with our Sachtler and Manfrotto 
brands. We also combine our products 
to offer a compelling package for  
this segment. 
Other markets 
Where attractive and feasible, we 
will leverage our products from the 
Broadcast market into other markets. 
An example of this is the use of our 
batteries and chargers for the US 
medical carts market. 
Vitec Market Position
Our Strategy
Vitec has the premium position and largest market share, providing 
many of the number one products through our brands to the broadcast 
and video markets.  10 The Vitec Group plc
Continued growth in sales of cameras with   
inter-changeable lenses 
Digital SLR unit sales have continued to grow albeit more 
slowly than in recent years. Further growth of SLR volumes 
is expected due to the improved video capability of the latest 
models as video and photography converge. A new type of 
inter-changeable lens camera, known as compact system or 
mirrorless camera, has grown substantially in 2012 and this is 
expected to continue. These cameras are priced significantly 
higher than the old “point and shoot” camera and should 
generate demand for products supplied by us. 
The new social recorders
There is a new population of photographers who are interested 
in recording images. These “social recorders” are using smart 
phones with high mega-pixel lenses to take images and share 
them using social media platforms. The emergence of a new 
middle class in BRIC countries has contributed significantly to 
this new population of photographers.
New distribution channels
The emergence of new distribution channels for photographic 
products, such as online and in consumer electronics stores,  
has helped stimulate demand from new consumers. 
Supports
With high quality and innovative products sold under the 
Manfrotto and Gitzo names, we possess the premier brands 
in photographic camera tripods and heads. We are the clear 
leader in terms of market share by value globally and continue  
to grow that share. 
Bags
Sold under the Manfrotto, Kata and, under licence, the National 
Geographic brands, we have a small share in this large product 
category. We have maintained market share in this category that 
provides opportunities for further growth.
Lighting
In lighting supports, primarily used in the professional sector, 
Manfrotto is the market leader by value. In lighting controls, 
Lastolite is the market leader in EMEA and is gaining share in  
the US. In lighting, the use of LEDs is gaining prominence as  
a more efficient replacement for traditional continuous lighting 
and Manfrotto is at the forefront of their introduction.
The Growth Drivers Vitec Market Position
Market Update
Photographic
Vitec supplies this market with a variety of products for the photographic camera. 
These comprise products manufactured or sourced by Vitec, and third party products 
distributed by Vitec, such as camera supports (tripods and heads), bags, lighting 
supports, LED lights and lighting controls (for example, umbrellas and reflectors). 
We estimate that the photographic market for product categories supplied or 
distributed by Vitec is worth around £800 million. Of this market, approximately half 
is purchased by professional photographers who we have supplied historically and 
whose business is taking images. The remainder is sold to consumers who have 
a keen interest in photography or, increasingly, a new population of photographers 
who simply want to record and share images. Photography continues to attract  
new customers as the number and type of image-taking devices increases and  
the distribution of images via social media becomes more popular.
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11
Professionals 
To maintain our leadership in the 
professional and keen amateurs 
segments with our range of Manfrotto 
and Gitzo camera supports, Kata bags 
and Lastolite lighting controls.
Consumers
To grow the Manfrotto brand by 
leveraging its strength into adjacent 
products (such as bags and lights),  
into premium consumer segments  
and into new distribution channels. 
To increase penetration of photographic 
products into the market by developing 
new products, by explaining better 
the benefits of our products and by 
engaging closely with customers. 
To deliver an integrated range of 
accessories from the same manufacturer 
(Manfrotto) such that we are able to 
accompany a photographer throughout 
each stage of his imaging experience. 
Our Strategy
Vitec has the leading premier brands in photographic 
camera tripods and heads for the professional and 
consumer photographer.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 12 The Vitec Group plc
Military, Aerospace  
 and Government 
There is an increasing demand for  
real-time high quality video images to  
be transmitted and received wirelessly  
by law enforcement agencies and military 
users. This technology provides users 
with greater situational awareness,  
for example for crowd control, and,  
in unmanned applications, minimises  
the potential loss of human life.
As defence products and space vehicles 
become more advanced, there is a need 
for more sophisticated antennas to send 
signals back to command and control 
centres. Haigh-Farr’s Wraparound™ 
antenna concept has enhanced the 
performance capabilities of aircraft, 
missiles and spacecraft worldwide.
The market remains challenging, but there 
are good longer-term opportunities in the 
niche market of wireless transmission of 
real-time, high quality information. 
•  To build on our leading market  
position in the law enforcement 
segment by continuing to offer  
the latest technology. 
•  To leverage our expertise and success 
with the US Department of Justice  
to win orders from other three  
letter agencies.
•  To continue to grow our business  
in the defence segment, including 
adapting Haigh-Farr’s conformal 
antennas for use in unmanned 
applications.
The Growth Drivers Our Strategy
Market Update
Vitec supplies:
 Law enforcement agencies such as police departments – for example to send video 
signals from helicopters to ground patrols.
Three letter agencies such as the US Department of Justice who use microwave 
equipment for surveillance purposes.
Defence and Space customers where microwave systems are used to recognise  
and assess threats more effectively and where high quality, application specific 
antennas are needed for challenging  
communication environments.
We estimate the MAG market for  
products supplied by Vitec to be worth  
around £400 million.
Vitec manufactures and supplies the Military, Aerospace and Government 
(MAG) market with microwave transmitters, receivers and antennas.
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
ur leading market 
e law enforcement
continuing to offer 
hnology. 
ur expertise and success
Department of Justice 
from other three 
s.
o grow our business 
e segment, including 
gh-Farr’s conformal
use in unmanned 
tegy
yg
d where high quality, application specific 
  DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13
Market Update
Global presence
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Our growth strategy is supported by the broad geographical 
spread of the Group.
In 2012, 45% of our revenues by destination came from North America, with 
the remainder split between Europe (33%), Asia Pacific (17%) and Rest of World 
(5%). Only 10% of our revenue is derived from the UK. We currently have a direct 
presence in 12 countries around the world: the UK, USA, Brazil, Costa Rica, 
France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Israel, Japan, China and Singapore.
North America 45% (£155.5m)
Europe 33% (£112.3m)
Asia Pacific 17% (£60.4m)
Rest of World 5% (£17.1m)
Revenue by destination
Find out more
www.vitecgroup.com/global_presence
Find out more
www.vitecgroup.com/glo 14 The Vitec Group plc
Vitec has performed well in a challenging 
environment and improved margins in each 
Division during 2012. Operating profit* increased 
by 13.9% to £39.3 million.
Group Finance Director statement online 
www.vitecgroup.com/financial_review
Financial Review
Group Finance Director  
Paul Hayes reviews performance 
Revenue 
The Group’s revenue for 2012 at  
£345.3 million was 1.6% lower than the 
prior year (2011: £351.0 million). Revenue 
included a £15.4 million contribution from 
acquisitions partly offset by £9.5 million 
lower revenue from the disposal of the 
non-core Staging business and £4.0 
million from ceasing to distribute some 
third party branded products in our 
Imaging Division. On an organic basis, 
after excluding the effect of £3.8 million  
of adverse movements in exchange rates, 
revenue fell by £3.8 million or 1.2%. 
Operating proﬁt 
Operating proﬁt* rose by £4.8 million 
to £39.3 million, an increase of 13.9% 
despite the lower sales activity. On an 
organic basis, operating proﬁt grew by 
£1.4 million after excluding £3.8 million of 
contributions from acquisitions net of the 
Staging disposal and ceasing to distribute 
some lower margin third party products, 
and £0.4 million of unfavourable 
exchange rate movements, after hedging. 
Operating proﬁt* increased despite the 
lower revenue as we have focused on 
improving margins in the current more 
challenging macroeconomic environment. 
This includes £1.6 million of beneﬁts from 
pricing over commodity cost increases 
(2011: £0.3 million loss) and a £4.8 million 
reduction in operating expenses during the 
year. As a result the operating margin* has 
increased by 160 bps to 11.4%. 
We maintained our investment in  
product development and innovation at 
4% of Group product sales (2011: 4%). 
Research, development and engineering 
expenditure on a like-for-like basis was 
£10.8 million (2011: £11.8 million) after 
adjusting for capitalised expenditure of 
£0.3 million (2011: £0.1 million) and 
£0.6 million of amortisation  
(2011: £0.5 million). Management’s 
estimate of the main drivers that reconcile 
the 2011 to the 2012 operating proﬁt*  
are summarised in the following table:
Operating proﬁt*  
2011-12 Variance Analysis (£ million)
2011 Operating proﬁt*  34.5
Gross margin effects:
- Volume, mix and efﬁciency (5.0)
- Sales price less cost inﬂation 1.6
Operating expenses 4.8
  1.4
Acquisitions and disposal**  3.8
Foreign exchange effects:
- Translation (0.5)
- Transaction after hedging 0.1
  (0.4)
2012 Operating proﬁt*  39.3
 
Net ﬁnancial expense 
Net ﬁnancial expense totalled £3.1 million 
(2011: £1.5 million). Interest payable was 
£3.2 million (2011: £1.9 million) and was 
covered 17 times (2011: 26 times) by 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation. Vitec has a $50 million 
private placement facility and a new ﬁve 
year £100 million multi-currency revolving 
credit facility that was arranged in July 
2012. The higher ﬁnance costs reﬂect the 
full year impact of the $50 million private 
placement and higher interest charges 
which reﬂect market rates on the new 
revolving credit facility.
Proﬁt before tax 
Proﬁt before tax* increased by  
£3.2 million to £36.2 million  
(2011: £33.0 million). The reported  
proﬁt before tax after charges associated 
with acquired businesses and disposal  
of business was down by 32.4% to  
£16.1 million (2011: £23.8 million).
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share*
Operating Profit*
Revenue
55.8p
£39.3m
£345.3m
Up
8.6%
Up
13.9%
Down
1.6%
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
**
 
Includes year on year effect of acquisitions, full year effect of disposal of business and ceasing distribution of some non-core third party products. DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS’ REPORT
     
KPI Measure 2012  2011 Deﬁnition/Calculation
Delivering value to shareholders    
Basic earnings per share* 55.8p 51.4p Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year after tax, before charges associated with acquired 
   businesses and disposal of business divided by the weighted average number  
   of shares in issue during the ﬁnancial year.
Return on sales* 11.4% 9.8% Operating proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year before charges associated with acquired  
   businesses, divided by revenue for the ﬁnancial year.
Free cash ﬂow £10.8m £16.5m Cash generated from operations in the ﬁnancial year after net capital   
   expenditure (including capitalised software and development costs),  
   interest and tax paid in the ﬁnancial year.
Controlling our working capital    
Working capital to sales  20.0% 15.9% Working capital at the end of the ﬁnancial year divided by annualised Q4  
   (October, November and December) revenue.
   Working capital at the end of the ﬁnancial year comprises net inventories,  
   trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Inventory days 113 days 109 days Inventory, net of impairment provisions, at the end of the ﬁnancial year divided  
   by Q4 cost of sales (before exchange gains/losses) times number of days in Q4.
Trade receivable days 43 days 38 days Trade receivables, net of impairment provisions, at the end of the ﬁnancial year  
   divided by Q4 revenue times number of days in Q4.
Trade payable days 42 days 49 days Trade payables at the end of the ﬁnancial year divided by Q4 cost of sales  
   (before exchange gains/losses) times number of days in Q4.
Growing the business    
Constant currency organic revenue growth (1.2)% 15.0% Constant currency revenue of the current ﬁnancial year (excluding external  
   revenue from acquired businesses) divided by total revenue of the prior  
   ﬁnancial year (excluding revenue from divested businesses) less 1 times 100%.
Constant currency organic operating 4.2% 18.0% Constant currency operating proﬁt* of the current ﬁnancial year (excluding  
proﬁt* growth   operating proﬁt from acquired businesses) divided by operating proﬁt* of the prior  
   year (excluding operating proﬁt from divested businesses) less 1 times 100%.
   Constant currency: prior year adjusted for foreign exchange translation,  
   current year adjusted for foreign exchange transactions. 
   Acquired businesses: exclude external revenue and operating proﬁt for each  
   month in the current ﬁnancial year with no comparative amount in the same  
   month of the prior ﬁnancial year. Businesses acquired during Q4 are excluded  
   from working capital ratios.
   Divested businesses: fully exclude external revenue and operating proﬁt  
   in the current and prior ﬁnancial year.
Financial key performance indicators 
The Board and Operations Executive monitor a number of ﬁnancial key performance indicators (KPIs), to measure our 
performance over time. Targets for these KPIs are set annually during our budgetary process, in line with our strategic objectives 
and may be subject to reﬁnement in accordance with the needs of the business. Details of our performance against each of our 
ﬁnance related KPIs is set out below:
Taxation 
The effective taxation rate on operating proﬁt* after net 
ﬁnance expense remained unchanged at 33% (2011: 33%). 
The Group’s tax charge is higher than the UK statutory rate 
because the majority of its proﬁts arise in overseas jurisdictions 
with higher tax rates.
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share before charges associated with 
acquired businesses and disposal of business was 55.8 pence 
per share (2011: 51.4 pence per share) representing growth 
of 8.6%. This includes the growth in operating proﬁt* partly 
offset by a higher net ﬁnance expense and a higher weighted 
average number of shares. The basic earnings per share was 
13.6 pence per share (2011: 34.7 pence per share).
Acquisitions and disposals 
In April 2012, Vitec acquired Camera Corps in the UK for 
consideration of £8.7 million. The fair value of the net assets 
acquired was £3.7 million, including £3.1 million of acquired 
intangibles, resulting in the capitalisation of £5.0 million  
of goodwill. The total balance of acquired intangibles at  
31 December 2012 was £12.0 million, which will be amortised 
over an average six year period. 
During the second half of the year, Vitec sold its Staging 
business, which had previously been included in the Imaging 
Division. The disposal was completed on 13 August 2012  
with a net cash outﬂow, after transaction costs, of £2.1 million. 
There was a loss on disposal of £6.4 million after transaction 
costs. This reﬂected £0.3 million of cash consideration for the 
business that had £6.3 million of net assets. This was partially 
offset by a £2.0 million foreign exchange gain recycled to the 
Income Statement in accordance with IFRS.
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
15 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 16 The Vitec Group plc
Financial Review
Charges associated with acquired businesses  
The 2012 charges relate to the Group’s acquisition activities  
and amortisation of previously acquired intangibles. There is  
also a one-off non-cash impairment charge relating to goodwill. 
We have reviewed the carrying value of the IMT goodwill that 
arose on the acquisition of the business in 2007. Whilst the 
business has made progress, including being awarded a 
contract during the year by the US Department of Homeland 
Security, and there remain good long-term opportunities and 
prospects, the lack of visibility in future orders, particularly 
considering budget constraints, has led Management to decide 
to take a one-off non-cash £8.8 million goodwill impairment 
charge to fully impair this investment (2011: £5.2 million 
associated with the Staging business).
The amortisation of acquired intangibles of £3.6 million (2011: 
£3.2 million) related to Manfrotto Lighting (previously Lastolite) 
acquired in March 2011, Haigh-Farr acquired in December 2011 
and Camera Corps acquired in April 2012. 
Transaction costs of £0.3 million were incurred in relation to the 
acquisition of Camera Corps (2011: £0.8 million in relation to  
the acquisitions of Manfrotto Lighting and Haigh-Farr). 
Contingent consideration of £0.7 million in respect of the 
acquisition of Manfrotto Lighting had been provided at  
31 December 2011. £0.5 million was paid in the year and  
the remaining £0.2 million has been credited to the Income 
Statement (2011: £nil). 
In addition, £1.2 million of deferred consideration was accrued 
during the year to be paid to the previous owners of Haigh-Farr 
in relation to their 2012 performance targets (2011: £nil).
There was a tax credit of £1.7 million on these charges and  
the disposal of business (2011: £2.0 million).
Cash ﬂow and net debt  
Cash generated from operating activities was £38.4 million 
(2011: £39.1 million) with the Group maintaining a strong  
focus on cash generation. 
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators to 
manage cash including the percentage of working capital to 
sales, inventory days, receivable days and payable days. 
Inventory, trade receivable and trade payable days are stated at 
year-end balances; inventory and trade payable days are based 
on Q4 cost of sales (excluding exchange gains/losses) while 
trade receivable days are based on Q4 revenue. For the 2011 
comparatives, the ratios presented exclude Haigh-Farr which 
was acquired in the last month of that year.
The working capital to sales metric has increased to 20.0%  
(31 December 2011: 15.9%) and overall working capital 
increased by £14.9 million (2011: £5.6 million increase). 
Trade receivables days increased to 43 days (2011: 38 days), 
reﬂecting a strong sales month in December. Trade and other 
receivables increased by £4.4 million accordingly (2011:  
£3.2 million increase) but there was an improvement in  
ageing on the prior year. 
Inventory levels decreased by £1.3 million (2011: £8.4 million 
increase) to £59.5 million at the year-end reﬂecting management 
focus in this area. As a result of lower sales in the last quarter, 
inventory days increased to 113 (2011: 109 days).
Trade payable days decreased to 42 days (2011: 49 days) and 
there was an £11.8 million overall decrease in trade and other 
payables (2011: £6.0 million increase). This reﬂects the reduction 
in inventory particularly in the latter part of the year and lower 
freight, expense, bonus and commission accruals.
Free cash ﬂow
 Year ended  Year ended 
 2012  2011 
 £m  £m
Operating proﬁt* 39.3 34.5
Depreciation
(1)
 14.2 14.9
Changes in working capital (14.9) (5.6)
Other items
(2)
 (0.2) (4.7)
Cash generated from operating activities 38.4 39.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (14.2) (13.7)
Capitalisation of software and development costs (1.3) (2.4)
Proceeds from sale of property,  
plant and equipment, and software 1.8 6.4 
Interest paid (3.1) (1.8)
Tax paid (10.8) (11.1)
Free cash ﬂow
+
 10.8 16.5
 
Net debt
Year ended Year ended 
 2012  2011 
  £m  £m
Free cash ﬂow
+
 10.8 16.5
Acquisitions and disposals
(3)
 (12.7) (27.9)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities 5.6 10.9
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3.7 (0.5)
Proceeds from bank loans (18.8) (21.6) 
Net cash outﬂow (15.1) (22.1)
Effect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations on net debt 1.8 (0.2)
Net debt at 1 January (50.4) (28.1)
Net debt at 31 December (63.7) (50.4)
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+ 
 Cash generated from operations after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
(1) 
 Includes depreciation and amortisation of capitalised software and development costs.
(2)
  Includes change in provisions, share-based charge, gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, fair value derivatives and transaction costs relating to acquisitions.
(3)
 Includes acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired; contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries and net proceeds from disposal of businesses. DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Currency hedging
  
  Average   Average 
 December exchange rate December exchange rate 
 2012 of contracts 2011 of contracts
US Dollars sold for Euros    
Forward contracts $61.2m 1.29 $30.9m 1.38
US Dollars sold for Sterling    
Forward contracts $17.3m 1.57 $11.4m 1.58
Capital expenditure, including capitalised software and 
development costs, totalled £15.5 million (2011: £16.1 million), 
of which £7.7 million (2011: £6.4 million) related to rental 
assets, partly ﬁnanced by the proceeds from rental asset 
disposals of £1.6 million (2011: £2.9 million). Services 
beneﬁted from a one-off sale of a large system to a major 
customer in 2011. Overall capital expenditure was equivalent 
to 1.1 times depreciation (2011: 1.1 times).
Net tax paid in 2012 of £10.8 million was lower than in 2011  
of £11.1 million mainly due to lower payments in Italy and the 
UK partially offset by higher payments in Germany.
Free cash ﬂow
+
 at £10.8 million (2011: £16.5 million) principally 
reﬂects changes in working capital, higher net capital 
expenditure and increased interest payments.
There was a £12.7 million net cash outﬂow relating to 
acquisitions and disposals during the year (2011: £27.9 million). 
Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £9.1 million  
(2011: £8.2 million) and there was a net cash outﬂow in 
respect of shares purchased and issued of £4.1 million  
(2011: £2.5 million). The net cash outﬂow for the Group was 
£15.1 million (2011: £22.1 million) which, after £1.8 million 
favourable exchange (2011: £0.2 million adverse), increased  
the net debt to £63.7 million (2011: £50.4 million).
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with a year-end net 
debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.2 times (31 December 2011: 1.0 
times), comfortably within our banking covenants.
Treasury 
Vitec manages its ﬁnancing, hedging and tax planning activities 
centrally to ensure that the Group has an appropriate structure 
to support its geographically diverse business. It has clearly 
deﬁned policies and procedures with any substantial changes 
to the ﬁnancial structure of the Group, or to its treasury 
practice, referred to the Board for approval. The Group 
operates strict controls over all treasury transactions including 
clearly deﬁned currency hedging processes to reduce risks 
from volatility in exchange rates. 
The Group is hedging a larger portion of its forecast future 
foreign currency transactions to reduce the risk from changes 
in exchange rates from current levels. Our main exposure 
relates to the US Dollar and the table below summarises  
the contracts held as at 31 December 2012. 
The Group does not hedge the translation of its foreign 
currency proﬁts. A portion of the Group’s foreign currency  
net assets are hedged using the Group’s borrowing facilities.
Financing activities  
During July 2012 the Group negotiated a new £100 million 
ﬁve-year multicurrency revolving credit facility involving ﬁve 
relationship banks, which replaces the previous £100 million 
facility. The new facility expires on 19 July 2017. At the end  
of December 2012, £42.2 million (2011: £24.4 million) of the 
facility was utilised.
The Group has a $50 million (£30.8 million) private placement 
facility which has been drawn down in two tranches of  
$25 million each. This ﬁnancing has a combined ﬁxed interest  
rate of 4.77% and is due for repayment on 11 May 2017.
The Group therefore has £130.8 million of committed facilities 
at the year-end with drawings of £73.0 million (31 December 
2011: £56.6 million).
The average cost of borrowing for the year which includes 
interest payable, commitment fees and amortisation of set-up 
charges was 4.0% (2011: 3.6%) reﬂecting a net interest cost  
of £3.2 million (2011: £1.9 million). 
The Board has maintained an appropriate capital structure 
without exposing the Group to unnecessary levels of risk and it 
has operated comfortably within its loan covenants during 2012. 
Foreign Exchange 
2012 operating proﬁt* included a £0.4 million net adverse 
foreign exchange effect after hedging, mainly due to 
unfavourable £/  rates when compared to 2011. 
Dividend 
The Directors have recommended a ﬁnal dividend of  
13.5 pence per share amounting to £5.9 million  
(2011: 12.5 pence per share, amounting to £5.4 million).  
The dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM,  
will be paid on Friday, 17 May 2013 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on Friday, 19 April 2013.  
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 22.0 pence  
per share (up 7.3%).
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+ 
 Cash generated from operations after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid. 18 The Vitec Group plc
Speciﬁc Risk Mitigation
Demand for our products
Demand for our products may be adversely affected by many factors, 
including changes in customer and consumer preferences and our 
ability to deliver appropriate products or to support changes in 
technology. In addition, demand may be impacted by competitor 
activity and demand in our target markets particularly reﬂecting  
the current uncertain economic outlook. 
We value our relationships with our customers and closely monitor our 
target markets and user requirements. We maintain good relationships 
with our key customers and make appropriate investments in product 
development and marketing activities to ensure that we remain 
competitive in these markets. In order to limit the impact of the 
economic downturn, the Group executes programmes that simplify 
processes, reduce costs and allow local management teams to  
focus more closely on their markets. 
Major contract awards
Our operating performance and cash ﬂow may be dependent on the 
timing of major contract awards. The timing of the award of these 
contracts can be difﬁcult to predict. In addition, the loss, suspension or 
cancellation of contracts may impact trading performance. In particular 
our Military, Aerospace and Government segment could be adversely 
impacted by a lower level of investment in the US defence budget.
We attempt to gain a good understanding of likely demand through 
developing close relationships with our customers. We also have 
a broad range of contracts that reduce our dependence on any 
particular contract or customer. We actively review our orders  
and trading outlook and manage our resources in line with  
anticipated activity. 
New markets and channels of distribution
As we enter new markets and channels of distribution we may achieve 
lower than anticipated trading volumes and pricing levels or higher 
costs and resource requirements. This may impact the levels of 
proﬁtability and cash ﬂows delivered.
We have a thorough process for assessing and planning the entry into 
new markets and related opportunities. This includes repositioning 
strategies of our products and services through marketing and 
advertising. We continuously assess our performance in these markets 
and the related opportunities and risks. We adapt our approach taking 
into account our actual and anticipated performance. 
Acquisitions
In pursuing our business strategy we continuously explore 
opportunities to enhance our business through development 
activities such as strategic acquisitions and disposals. This involves 
a number of calculated risks including: acquiring desired businesses 
on economically acceptable terms; integrating new businesses, 
employees, business systems and technology; and realising  
satisfactory post-acquisition performance.
We mitigate these risks by having a clear acquisition strategy with 
a robust valuation model. Thorough due diligence processes are 
completed including the use of external advisers where appropriate. 
There is a clear focus on integrating acquired businesses and 
monitoring post-acquisition performance. In the last two years the 
Group made three acquisitions (Lastolite, Haigh-Farr and Camera 
Corps) which have been successfully integrated and completed  
the disposal of our non-core Staging business.
Pricing pressure
We might experience pricing pressure including challenges in raising 
prices, especially in the current economic climate, or not recovering 
increases in commodity and other costs. If the price of products 
does not at least recover movements in commodity costs and other 
expenses and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results  
could be adversely affected.
We ensure that our products and service offering remains competitive 
by investing in new product development, in appropriate marketing 
and product support, and improving the management of supply chain 
costs. This allows us to support price increases when required by 
working closely with our suppliers and managing our expenses and 
cost base appropriately.
Principal risks and uncertainties 
We are exposed to a number of risk factors which may affect our performance. We have a well-established 
framework for reviewing and assessing these risks on a regular basis, and have put in place appropriate 
processes and procedures to mitigate against them. However, no system of control or mitigation can 
completely eliminate all risks. This is a summary of some of the principal risks facing the Group:
Financial Review DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Speciﬁc Risk Mitigation
Dependence on key suppliers
We source materials and components from many suppliers in various 
locations and in some instances are more dependent on a limited 
number of suppliers for particular items. If any of these suppliers or 
subcontractors fail to meet the Group’s requirements, we may not 
have readily available alternatives, thereby impacting our ability to 
provide an appropriate level of customer service.
We aim to secure multiple sources of supply for all materials and 
components and develop strong relationships with our major suppliers. 
We review the performance of strategically important suppliers globally 
on an on-going basis.
Dependence on key customers
Whilst the Group has a wide customer base, the loss of a key 
customer, or a signiﬁcant worsening in their success or ﬁnancial 
performance, could result in a material impact on the Group’s results.
We monitor closely our performance with all customers through 
developing strong relationships, analysis of sales trends and ﬁnancial 
performance of our key customers. We continue to expand our 
customer base including entering into new channels of distribution  
to expand our portfolio of customers.
Employees
We employ around 1,900 people and are exposed to a risk of being 
unable to retain or recruit suitable talent to support the business.  
We manufacture and supply products from a number of locations  
and it is important that our employees operate in a professional  
and safe environment.
We recognise that it is important to motivate and retain capable 
people across our businesses to ensure that we are not exposed to 
risk of unplanned staff turnover. We fairly reward our employees and 
have appropriate staff recruitment, appraisal, talent management and 
succession planning strategies to ensure we recruit and retain good 
quality people across the business. We take our employees’ health 
and safety very seriously and have appropriate processes in place  
to allow us to monitor any issues. 
Laws and regulations 
We are subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all 
countries in which we operate. As a result, we are exposed to many 
forms of legal risk. These include, without limitation, regulations 
relating to government contracting rules, anti-bribery provisions, 
competition, and health and safety laws in numerous jurisdictions 
around the world. Failure to comply with such laws could signiﬁcantly 
impact the Group’s reputation and could expose the Group to ﬁnes 
and penalties. 
We have resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance 
supported by external advice where necessary. We enhance our 
controls, processes and employee knowledge to maintain good 
governance and to comply with new laws and regulations such as 
the provisions of the UK Bribery Act 2010. The Group has processes 
in place to ensure that its worldwide business units understand and 
apply the Group’s culture and processes to their own operations.
Our reputation 
Damage to our reputation and our brand names can arise from a 
range of events such as poor product performance, unsatisfactory 
customer service and other events either within or outside our control.
We recognise the importance of our reputation and attempt to 
identify any potential issues quickly and address them appropriately. 
We recognise the importance of providing high quality products, 
good customer service and managing our business in a safe and 
professional manner. This requires all employees to commit to and 
comply with the Vitec Code of Business Conduct.
Exchange rates 
The global nature of the Group’s business means it is exposed to 
volatility in currency exchange rates in respect of foreign currency 
denominated transactions, and the translation of net assets and income 
statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments. 
The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies, the most 
signiﬁcant being the US Dollar and Euro.
We regularly review and assess our exposure to changes in exchange 
rates. We reduce the impact of sudden movements in exchange 
rates with the use of appropriate hedging activities on forecast foreign 
exchange net exposures. We do not hedge the translation effect of 
exchange rate movements on the Income Statement or Balance Sheet 
of overseas subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 20 The Vitec Group plc
Videocom Division
The Videocom Division mainly 
serves the Broadcast & Video and 
MAG markets. It specialises in the 
supply of high-quality equipment 
principally for professionals 
engaged in producing video 
content for the media industries 
globally: broadcast, ﬁlm and live 
events. This equipment is also 
supplied to corporate, educational 
and religious entities producing 
video content which we deﬁne  
as the “business and industry” 
segment. Additionally, it supplies 
mission-critical wireless 
communication and surveillance 
products for the MAG market, 
serving law enforcement agencies, 
‘three letter agencies’ such as the  
US Department of Justice, and 
defence and space customers.
Operations  
Videocom’s reported revenue for 2012 
was £146.2 million, an increase of 7.3% 
from 2011. The acquisition of Haigh-Farr 
in December 2011 and Camera Corps  
in April 2012 made notable contributions 
to 2012 revenue. Organic revenue at 
constant currency decreased by 3.1%.  
This included the non-recurrence of  
$7.9 million (£4.9 million) of sales in  
the prior year to the MAG market  
under Auction 66. Operating proﬁt*  
rose 24.4% to £15.8 million.
There was growth in sales of outside 
broadcast and video camera supports as 
well as our range of bags for this market. 
Demand for our premium studio and robotic 
camera supports in the key US broadcast 
market was affected by budget constraints 
at the major studios and there was no repeat 
of the sizeable 2011 contracts to supply 
television studios in Asia. 
Our Litepanels LED lighting products 
beneﬁted from the launch of new products 
that broadened our product ranges and 
enabled us to maintain our leading position 
in the market. Shortly after the year-end, the 
US International Trade Commission granted 
a general exclusion order prohibiting the 
import of products infringing a number of 
Litepanels’ patents into the US market.  
We will continue to protect our intellectual 
property while granting licenses to other 
manufacturers as and when appropriate. 
Our Anton/Bauer mobile power products 
performed consistently overall and made 
good progress in supplying batteries and 
chargers to power medical carts in hospitals. 
The recently acquired Camera Corps 
business complements our Broadcast 
activities. Camera Corps provides  
leading remote camera systems that are 
predominantly used at major sporting 
events. As anticipated, the business 
beneﬁted from the UEFA Euro 2012 
Championships and more signiﬁcantly the 
London 2012 Olympics, delivering a better 
than expected post-acquisition performance. 
Our Haigh-Farr antenna business also 
performed ahead of our pre-acquisition 
expectations. The business continues  
to grow in a challenging defence market 
and has gained acceptance onto new 
programmes and supported a number  
of high proﬁle space applications. These 
include antennas for SpaceX’s Falcon-9 
launch vehicle, the ﬁrst commercial vehicle 
to dock successfully with the International 
Space Station, and NASA’s Curiosity 
vehicle which landed on Mars. 
IMT , our microwave transmitter and  
receiver business, was awarded a contract  
during the year by the US Department  
of Homeland Security, but is operating in a  
very challenging market. Although there are 
good opportunities in this market, there is 
limited order visibility and no other signiﬁcant 
US Government contracts have been 
awarded. Its overall performance reﬂects  
a low level of investment by its US 
Government driven customer base  
for this relatively small niche business.
Revenue
Operating profit*
£146.2m
£15.8m
Up
7.3%
Up
24.4%
Our brands Revenue
Operating proﬁt*
Operating margin*
Supports  
OConnor 
Sachtler  
Vinten  
Bags  
Petrol
Robotic Camera Systems 
Camera Corps
Vinten Radamec
Equipment Rentals UK  
TCS
Lighting 
Litepanels  
Microwave Systems  
Haigh-Farr 
IMT 
Microwave Services Company 
Nucomm 
RF Central
Mobile Power 
Anton/Bauer
Prompters   
Autoscript
10.8%
2012
2012
£15.8m
2012
9.3%
2011
£136.2m
2011
£12.7m
2011
£146.2m
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21
Vitec in action
Robotics control panel 
2012 saw the introduction of Vinten Radamec’s latest robotics control system, 
the CP4. This state-of-the-art device allows up to eight cameras to be operated 
via a central control panel, reducing costs and providing greater control for 
ﬁlming. The CP4 is speciﬁcally designed to support smaller camera systems, 
allowing a cost-effective camera control solution for non-studio environments  
or in remote locations such as regional news programmes. 
Camera Corps Acquisition – Euro 2012 
Camera Corps has performed strongly following its acquisition by the Group 
in April 2012. Products and services were provided to UEFA’s Euro 2012 
Championships, the London 2012 Olympic Games, the London 2012 Paralympic 
Games and many high proﬁle reality TV shows. Q-Ball’s unique position and 
capability provided the iconic shot of the Olympic cauldron which became an 
emblem of the London 2012 Games. Camera Corps has been successfully 
integrated into the Videocom Division. 
Costa Rica expansion 
Vitec has opened a newly expanded Costa Rican production  
facility in Cartago. The new plant has doubled capacity to more than  
5,500 square metres. The expansion is to support increases in production 
including the addition of Manfrotto manufacturing product lines at the plant  
in 2013. The ofﬁcial opening was attended by the President of Costa Rica,  
Laura Chinchilla, the Foreign Trade Vice Minister and Stephen Bird, 
demonstrating the prominence Vitec has within Costa Rica. 
Mars Science Laboratory – Curiosity 
Haigh-Farr provided the antenna system for the Curiosity vehicle which successfully 
landed on Mars on 6 August 2012. The antenna system was used during the crucial 
entry, descent and landing phase of the mission, to provide critical data to NASA 
engineers as to what the Curiosity vehicle was experiencing. NASA reported that  
the antenna provided perfect data, successfully accomplishing all of its objectives. 
Hunan TV China  
The second largest Chinese television network, Hunan, invested heavily in  
Vitec products to support an upgrade to its TV facility. New studios were 
exclusively ﬁtted with Litepanels’ LED ﬁxtures along with Vinten pedestals  
and Autoscript teleprompters. These Vitec brands helped win the network  
the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television award for the most 
technically advanced studio of 2012 in China. 
Autoscript 
Autoscript delivered systems to major studios in the US and Russia to assist  
with their coverage of events such as the US Presidential elections and  
on-going broadcasting needs during their switch over to High Deﬁnition.  
They also supplied products to the London 2012 Olympic Games. 
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 22 The Vitec Group plc
Imaging Division**
Our Imaging Division provides 
premium photographic and 
increasingly video equipment 
to both professional and 
non-professional users. The 
photographic and video equipment 
consists primarily of camera 
supports, tripods, equipment bags, 
lighting supports, LED lights and 
lighting accessories. The Division 
also included the non-core  
Staging business until its  
disposal in August 2012.
Operations  
Revenue for 2012, excluding the 
disposed non-core Staging business, 
was £157.9 million against a comparable 
£165.5 million last year. This was 0.4% 
lower on a constant currency basis  
after taking into account the decision  
to withdraw from the distribution of 
certain lower margin third party  
branded products.
Operating proﬁt* rose by 4.6% to  
£22.9 million, after excluding the loss-
making Staging business, despite a lower 
level of sales. This reﬂected activities to 
improve margins through pricing and  
cost management. Underlying operating 
margins for our Imaging activities 
increased by 130 bps.
We grew sales of our video and lighting 
supports for the professional market 
segment, and made good progress with 
the sale of new products including the 
Sympla video range. Our Manfrotto 
Powerbrand product range also 
performed well, including the more 
recently introduced LED lights. 
The photographic market continued to 
grow during 2012 with 28% growth in  
the shipments of inter-changeable lens 
cameras driven primarily by new higher 
value compact system cameras. We 
continue to purchase independent  
market research data on the photographic 
market that shows that we have increased 
our share of the tripod market in the  
US and Europe. We have also made 
progress in penetrating online consumer 
electronic sales channels. Volumes in  
our bags business declined following  
a contraction in this market during the 
year, although our share of this market 
remained stable.
Since the end of the year, Jessops,  
a retailer of photographic equipment  
in the UK, went into administration.  
Our exposure was small and it has an 
insigniﬁcant impact on our business.
Our brands Revenue
Operating proﬁt*
Operating margin*
Supports 
Avenger  
Gitzo 
Manfrotto
Bags 
Kata 
Manfrotto 
National Geographic*** 
Lighting 
Colorama 
Lastolite 
Manfrotto
14.5%
2012
£157.9m
2012
£22.9m
2012
2011
£165.5m
2011
£21.9m
13.2%
2011
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business.
**  Figures in this section exclude the Staging business that was disposed in 2012.
*** Manufactured and distributed under licence.
Down 
4.6%
Revenue
Operating profit*
£157.9m
£22.9m
Up
4.6% DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Vitec in action
Faster, Smarter, Sympla 
Sympla is a professional modular video rig system that complements the 
evolution of camera technology. Built for ﬂexibility and speed, it offers versatility 
and high performance as well as comfort, safety and a simpler, faster set up  
than existing rigs. 
Innovative Bags 
Manfrotto have developed a new bag series, Stile, featuring messenger, holster and 
shoulder bags. These bags reﬂect the needs of the growing hobbyist audience who 
are using smaller compact mirrorless cameras and digital technology to take pictures. 
The new bags are smaller, lighter and offer quick access to the cameras along with 
storage space for accessories such as a notebook or tablet computer. 
New logistics platform for US 
To meet the increased demand of distribution and warehouse requirements 
by Manfrotto Distribution US, Panalpina, a specialist logistics supplier, was 
appointed. The use of advanced logistical systems at the New Jersey site has 
improved efﬁciency, raising customer service and productivity by 40%. The 
relationship provides potential for future synergies with other Vitec businesses. 
KLYP iPhone case and LED light 
Manfrotto successfully responded to continued growth within the smartphone 
market in launching KLYP . KLYP is the ﬁrst iPhone case designed with image-
enhancing accessories such as LED lights and supports. It allows smartphone 
users to take better pictures with their mobile device, expanding Vitec’s audience 
and market. Demonstrating its market signiﬁcance KLYP has already received 
excellent reviews, media focus and strong sales.
Increased web presence  
Manfrotto continues to maximise its online presence with more than four million 
customers visiting its websites. The Manfrotto Imagine More Facebook group 
has over 35,000 fans and 8,000 Twitter followers; the Manfrotto School of 
Xcellence site has generated a trainee community of 4,000 Facebook fans;  
and Kata possesses a Facebook page with over 67,000 “likes”. 
Manufacturing consolidation in Feltre 
A ﬁve year project to consolidate manufacturing facilities into one site in Feltre, 
Italy, was completed in August 2012, with all production activities combined into 
a seamless system. Numerous beneﬁts include higher service levels to assembly 
lines, greater control of product components, shorter lead times and faster 
delivery. The move has signiﬁcantly cut costs while improving efﬁciency. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action 24 The Vitec Group plc
Services Division
Our Services Division provides 
equipment rental, workﬂow design 
and technical support to television 
production teams and ﬁlm crews. 
It provides a complete one-stop 
solution for top producers globally, 
enabling customers to deliver the 
most demanding projects. The 
Division has a strategy to focus on 
larger events, where higher levels 
of service are most needed, and 
to secure multi-year contracts for 
these events.
Revenue for 2012 increased by 4.4% to £33.0 million and proﬁts doubled with the 
beneﬁt of contracts to supply the London 2012 Olympics and US Presidential election 
more than offsetting a one-off sale of a large system to a major customer in 2011. 
Increased margins reﬂected sales activity and a further reduction in costs through 
streamlining operations. 
Bexel’s Olympic endeavour
London’s summer sporting events generated 
increased revenues for Bexel who supplied specialist 
broadcast equipment for the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games. As a primary supplier for both 
Games, Bexel provided a range of Vitec products 
including over 100 Sachtler Tripods, 150 Litepanels 
and 300 Anton Bauer batteries. Ten of Bexel’s portable 
“Fly-Pack” control rooms were supplied for facilitating 
production for live venue coverage at Wimbledon for 
the Olympic tennis, at the Excel Centre for taekwondo 
and fencing, and at the International Broadcast Centre 
for the main press daily brieﬁngs.
Litepanels distribution through Bexel
Litepanels continues to elevate its presence via 
increased distribution through Bexel. The successful 
partnership resulted in Litepanels’ LED ﬁxtures being 
used at many major outdoor sporting events in the 
US. These included coverage of the National Football 
League, NCAA College Football, Major League 
Baseball and the National Basketball Association. 
Litepanels were also used for NBC’s Today Show 
coverage of the London 2012 Olympic Games. 
Our services
Major event production 
systems design and 
deployment services
Production equipment 
 rentals
Fibre optic broadcast and 
infrastructure solutions 
design and deployment
Sales and support of 
professional audio and 
video products
Used production 
 equipment sales
Revenue
Operating proﬁt
Operating margin
2012
£33.0m
2012
2012
£1.2m
3.6%
2011
£31.6m
2011
2011
£0.6m
1.9%
Vitec in action
Our brands
Bexel
Up 
4.4%
Revenue
Operating profit
£33.0m
£1.2m
Up
100%
Vitec in action 
www.vitecgroup.com/vitec_in_action DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operations Executive
The Operations Executive is responsible for leading the organisation. Together the team develops 
strategy, implements our plans and ensures we run the business effectively. We meet monthly to discuss 
the business and drive collaboration. The strength of this team derives from a diverse range of personal 
and functional skills and experience.
For more information 
Turn to page 20
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Marco Pezzana
Imaging  
Divisional Chief Executive 
Divisional Chief Executive, Imaging 
Division, Italian, aged 43, appointed 
March 2009. Formerly Managing 
Director of Manfrotto. Prior to joining 
Vitec he held various positions in 
general management and marketing 
for consumer goods companies 
including Newell Rubbermaid, Arc 
International and Dusholux GmbH, 
working extensively in the UK, USA 
and France. He holds a university 
degree in Political Science from the 
University of Milan, with postgraduate 
studies at London Business School 
and Bocconi University.
Francesco Bernardi
Group Head of  
Strategic Projects
Group Head of Strategic Projects, 
Italian, aged 47, appointed February 
2004. Formerly Divisional Chief 
Executive, Imaging & Staging Division. 
Prior to this he held various 
management positions in sales and 
marketing in several consumer goods, 
fashion and retail companies including 
Benetton, Stefanel and Marzotto/
Hugo Boss. He holds a university 
degree in Political Science.
Matt Danilowicz
Videocom and Services 
Divisional Chief Executive
Divisional Chief Executive, Videocom 
and Services Divisions, American, 
aged 52, appointed July 2012. 
Previous roles include 7 years as 
President of Clear-Com, a former Vitec 
Group company, Vice President of 
Worldwide Channels and General 
Manager, Broadcast at Avid 
Technology and CEO of iNews,  
a market-leading news technology 
company. BA degree in Economics 
and English from the College of 
William & Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia.
Steve Shpock
IMT President 
 
President of IMT, American, aged 53, 
appointed in 2011. Previously he  
held the position of CEO of Thales 
Component Corp, and executive 
positions at MCE Technologies (now 
Aeroﬂex) and Litton (now L-3 Com).
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive 
Group Chief Executive, British, aged 
52, appointed to the Board on 14 April 
2009. He is currently a non-executive 
director and the senior independent 
director of Dialight plc. He was formerly 
a non-executive director of Umeco plc. 
Previously he was Divisional Managing 
Director of Weir Oil & Gas, part of Weir 
Group plc. Prior to this he has worked 
in senior roles at Danaher Corporation, 
Black & Decker, Unipart Group, 
Hepworth PLC and Technicolor Group.
Paul Hayes
Group Finance Director 
Group Finance Director, British,  
aged 46, appointed to the Board on 
13 June 2011. Previously he was 
Group Financial Controller at Signet 
Jewelers Limited. Prior to that, he  
held senior roles at RHM plc and 
Smiths Group plc. He is a Chartered 
accountant having qualiﬁed with Ernst 
& Young, and has a Masters degree  
in Mechanical Engineering.
Martin Green
Group Development Director 
Group Development Director, British, 
aged 44, appointed June 2005. 
Previously he held corporate 
development positions at Bunzl plc,  
at a venture capital backed broadcast 
equipment rental business and 
worked in investment banking at  
NM Rothschild. Trained and qualiﬁed 
as a solicitor with Linklaters & Alliance  
in the UK.
Jon Bolton
Group Company Secretary 
Group Company Secretary, British, 
aged 46, appointed October 2008. 
Previously Company Secretary of 
Waste Recycling Group. Prior to this 
he held company secretarial positions  
at GlaxoSmithKline, where he trained  
as a company secretary and Cable  
& Wireless where he was Deputy 
Company Secretary. He holds a 
bachelor of law degree and is a  
fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators. 26 The Vitec Group plc
Board of Directors
John McDonough  
CBE, BSc (Eng)
Chairman, British, aged 61, appointed 
to the Board on 15 March 2012; 
Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee; John ceased being  
a member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees on 
becoming Chairman on 1 June 
2012. He is also Chairman of 
Vesuvius plc. John was most 
recently Group Chief Executive of 
Carillion plc from January 2001 to 
December 2011. He was previously 
a non-executive director of Tomkins 
plc from June 2007 to September 
2010, where he was also Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee, 
and Exel from February 2004 to 
December 2005. Prior to Carillion, 
John worked for Johnson Controls 
and Massey Ferguson.
Stephen Bird  
MA
Group Chief Executive, British,  
aged 52, appointed to the Board  
on 14 April 2009. He is currently  
a non-executive director and the 
senior independent director of 
Dialight plc. He was formerly a 
non-executive director of Umeco 
plc. Previously he was Divisional 
Managing Director of Weir Oil & 
Gas, part of Weir Group plc. Prior  
to this he has worked in senior roles 
at Danaher Corporation, Black & 
Decker, Unipart Group, Hepworth 
PLC and Technicolor Group.
Paul Hayes  
M.Eng & Man, ACA
Group Finance Director, British, 
aged 46, appointed to the Board on 
13 June 2011. Previously he was 
Group Financial Controller at Signet 
Jewelers Limited. Prior to that, he 
held senior roles at RHM plc and 
Smiths Group plc. He is a Chartered 
accountant having qualiﬁed with 
Ernst & Young, and has a Masters 
degree in Mechanical Engineering.
Carolyn Fairbairn 
BA, MA and MBA 
Non-Executive, independent, 
British, aged 52, appointed to the 
Board on 1 February 2012; member 
of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. She is 
currently a non-executive director of 
Lloyds Banking Group plc and was 
previously a non-executive director 
of the Financial Services Authority 
between 2007 and 2011. Until April 
2011, she was Director of Group 
Development and Strategy at ITV 
plc, having also spent ﬁve years as 
Director of Strategy at the BBC and 
a member of its Executive Board. 
She has also been a partner at 
McKinsey, where she specialised in 
media, and a policy adviser in the 
Number 10 Policy Unit. Previous 
non-executive roles include chair of 
Friends Reunited, chair of the Royal 
Television Society, and director of 
Digital UK and Freeview.
Board of Directors 
www.vitecgroup.com/board_of_directors DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Simon Beresford-Wylie  
BA
Non-Executive, independent, 
British, aged 54, appointed to the 
Board on 1 March 2006; Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Audit and 
Nominations Committees. 
Appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
of Digital Mobile Spectrum Limited  
on 15 January 2013. Previously 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Elster 
Group SE, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  
of Nokia Siemens Networks and 
member of the Nokia Group 
Executive Board having joined the 
Nokia Group in 1998 from Indian 
mobile operator Modi Telstra  
(Pte. Ltd.), where he was Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer. Prior to that he 
held various management positions 
within Telstra’s Corporate and 
Government Business Unit.
Maria Richter  
BA, JD
Non-Executive, independent, dual 
American and Panamanian, aged 
58, appointed to the Board on  
28 February 2007; member of  
the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. She  
is currently a director of National 
Grid plc, The Pantry Inc and  
The Bessemer Group Incorporated.  
She is a director of Pro Mujer 
International and Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of Pro Mujer UK. 
Previously with Morgan Stanley  
for nine years, most recently as 
Managing Director of the Corporate 
Finance Retail Group. Prior to that 
she held senior positions with 
Salomon Brothers, Prudential 
Capital Corporation and Power 
Funding Associates.
Nigel Moore  
FCA
Non-Executive, independent, 
British, aged 68, appointed to  
the Board on 1 March 2004; 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Nominations 
and Remuneration Committees.  
He is the Senior Independent 
Director. He is currently Chairman of 
JKX Oil & Gas plc, and a director of 
Hochschild Mining plc and Ascent 
Resources plc. Formerly a London 
based partner of Ernst & Young, 
where he was engagement partner 
for a number of signiﬁcant client 
companies with speciﬁc 
responsibilities for their audits.
John Hughes 
CBE, BSc 
Non-Executive, independent, 
British, aged 61, appointed to the 
Board on 11 March 2011; member 
of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. He is 
currently Chairman of Spectris plc, 
Telecity Group plc and Sepura plc. 
He is also a director of CSG 
Systems International, Inc. He was 
previously Executive Vice-President 
and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of 
Thales SA, the defence, aerospace 
and electronic systems group.  
He serves as an ambassador to  
the Alzheimer’s Society.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
27 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 28 The Vitec Group plc
Principal Activity and Business Review
The principal activity of the Group is to provide products  
and services that support the capture of exceptional images. 
We serve customers in the Broadcast & Video, Photographic, 
and Military, Aerospace and Government (MAG) markets. 
Vitec is based on strong, well known premium brands on 
which its customers worldwide rely and is organised in three 
divisions: Videocom, Imaging and Services. Videocom designs 
and distributes systems and products used in broadcasting 
and live entertainment, ﬁlm and video production and MAG. 
Imaging designs, manufactures and distributes equipment 
and accessories for photography and video. Services provides 
equipment rental, workﬂow design and technical support to  
TV production teams and ﬁlm crews.
Details of the Group’s business model, strategy, activities, 
developments and performance for the year, the main trends 
and factors likely to affect its future development, together with 
performance information which fulﬁlls the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business 
review are set out on pages 1 to 24 and in the section entitled 
“Principal risks and uncertainties” on pages 18 and 19. The 
Company uses a number of key performance indicators to 
measure progress towards its objectives which can be found  
on pages 15, 39, 46, 47 and 49.
Directors
The Directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 
and up to the date of this report are set out on pages 26 and 27 
along with their photographs and biographies.
Changes to the Board during the year and up to the date of this 
report were as follows:
All current Directors, with the exception of Maria Richter, will be 
standing for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM to be held 
on Wednesday, 15 May 2013. The remuneration of the Directors  
is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 43. 
Directors’ shareholdings
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, 
Executive Directors are required to build up, over a reasonable 
period of time, a substantial holding of shares in the Company  
of at least one times salary. A reasonable period is considered  
to be the life of a performance period tied to an award vesting 
under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan. Other members 
of the Operations Executive are encouraged to do the same up 
to a level of at least 50% of salary. The value of holdings by the 
Executive Directors at 31 December 2012 represented 201% 
and 76% of the base salaries of Stephen Bird and  
Paul Hayes respectively, calculated by reference to the  
closing middle market price of a share of the Company on  
31 December 2012, which was 635.25 pence.
The table below sets out the beneﬁcial interests in the Company’s 
shares of those persons who were Directors at the end of the 
ﬁnancial year. The interests are shown as at 31 December 2012 
and 1 January 2012 (or date of appointment if later). Details of 
the Executive Directors’ other interests in the Company’s shares 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 43. 
There have been no other changes to these interests in the 
period from 31 December 2012 to 27 February 2013.
Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ Liability Insurance  
and Indemniﬁcation of Directors 
The Company maintains Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability 
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action 
brought against its Directors. The Company has also granted 
indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent permitted by 
law. Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as deﬁned in 
Section 324 of the Companies Act 2006) were adopted on  
16 March 2009 for those Directors on the Board at that time 
and have been agreed by all Directors joining the Board since 
that date. These indemnities remain in force in relation to certain 
losses and liabilities which the Directors may incur to third 
parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
Name Date Position
John McDonough 
CBE
Appointed on  
15 March 2012
Independent Non-Executive 
Director (on appointment) and 
Chairman (from 1 June 2012)
Carolyn Fairbairn Appointed on  
1 February 2012
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Michael Harper Retired on 
1 June 2012
Chairman
Directors’ Report
Directors’ shareholdings
31 December 2012 1 January 2012 
(or date of appointment,  
if later)
Chairman
John McDonough CBE 
(appointed 15 March 2012)
25,000 -
Executive Directors
Stephen Bird 126,491
(
*
)
95,323
(
*
)
Paul Hayes 32,843
(
**
)
24,000
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Beresford-Wylie 4,263 4,215
John Hughes - -
Nigel Moore 26,154 20,470
(
***
)
Maria Richter - 4,381
Carolyn Fairbairn 
(appointed 1 February 2012)
--
214,751 148,389
(
*
)
   Includes 77,821 shares and 54,875 shares (at 31 December 2012 and  
1 January 2012 respectively) purchased in the market using funds supplied 
by Stephen Bird and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust, the trust used 
to hold shares in respect of awards made under the Vitec Group 2005 
Deferred Bonus Plan. 
(
**
)
 Includes 8,843 shares (at 31 December 2012) purchased in the market 
using funds supplied by Paul Hayes and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust, 
the trust used to hold shares in respect of awards made under the Vitec 
Group 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan. 
(
***
)
  Nigel Moore’ s shareholding as at 1 January 2012 has been re-stated due to 
the regular re-investment of cash dividends through a SIPP since May 2009. DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Share capital 
The Company has only ordinary shares of 20 pence nominal 
value in issue. Note 4.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements summarises the rights of the ordinary shares 
as well as the number issued during 2012. An analysis of 
shareholdings is shown on page 117. The closing middle 
market price of a share of the Company on 31 December 
2012, together with the range during the year, is also shown 
on page 117. For details of own shares held by the Company 
see note 4.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 27 February 2013, the Company had been advised under 
the Disclosure and Transparency Regime, or had ascertained 
from its own analysis, that the following held interests of  
3% or more of the voting rights of its issued share capital:
   
 Number of 
Shareholder voting rights %
Delta Lloyd NV  6,584,080 15.07
Manfrotto  4,788,102 10.96
Standard Life Investments  3,979,258 9.11
Harris Associates 3,966,016 9.08
Cazenove Capital Management  3,548,786 8.12
Schroder Investment Management 2,143,771 4.91
M&G Investment Management  1,580,333 3.62
Committees of the Board
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations 
Committee and a Remuneration Committee. Details of these 
Committees, including membership, outline terms of reference 
and their activities during 2012, are contained in the Corporate 
Governance section of this Annual Report and in the 
Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Report
The Group’s Remuneration Report is set out on pages 31 to 43. 
Corporate Responsibility 
The Group’s report on corporate responsibility is set out on 
pages 44 to 51. The Group has a Code of Business Conduct 
and speciﬁc policies which cover the following key areas: 
health and safety; risk and fraud; employment; whistleblowing; 
the environment; human rights; community impact and 
involvement; and relationships with suppliers and customers 
and other stakeholders. It regularly reviews these policies and 
revises them as and when necessary.
Corporate Governance
The Group’s report on Corporate Governance is on pages  
52 to 63.
Donations
During 2012, the Group made charitable and community-
based donations totalling £71,173 (2011: £152,143), of  
which £19,425 were made in the UK. No donations were 
made to any political party (2011: £nil). For further information 
on donations refer to the section on Community and Charitable 
Donations set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on 
page 51. 
Payments to creditors
It continues to be the Group’s policy that the Company and 
individual subsidiary companies are responsible for negotiating 
terms and conditions under which suppliers operate. Once 
agreed, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with 
those terms and conditions, subject always to the supplier 
having complied with them. That policy will continue for  
the year ending 31 December 2013. For the year ended  
31 December 2012, the Group’s payables days  
were 42 (2011: 49 days).
Companies Act 2006 Disclosures
In accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 
the Directors disclose the following information:
•  The Company’s capital structure and voting rights are 
summarised on page 98, and there are no restrictions 
on voting rights nor any agreement between holders of 
securities that result in restrictions on the transfer  
of securities or on voting rights;
•  There exist no securities carrying special rights with regard  
to the control of the Company;
•  Details of the substantial shareholders and their 
shareholdings in the Company are listed opposite;
•  Shares awarded under the Core award of the Company’s 
Deferred Bonus Plan are held in a nominee capacity by the 
Employee Beneﬁt Trust (EBT). The Trustees of the EBT do  
not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the EBT.  
No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares 
unallocated to individual beneﬁciaries;
•  The rules concerning the appointment and replacement  
of Directors, amendment to the Articles of Association and 
powers to issue or buy back the Company’s shares are 
contained in the Articles of Association of the Company  
and the Companies Act 2006;
•  There exist no agreements to which the Company is party 
that may affect its control following a takeover bid; and
•  There exist no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors providing for compensation for loss of ofﬁce that 
may occur because of a takeover bid.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the rights 
of shareholders including voting rights, distribution rights, 
attendance at general meetings, powers of directors, 
proceedings of directors as well as borrowing limits and other 
governance controls. A copy of the Articles of Association can  
be requested from the Company Secretary.
Conﬂicts of Interest
During the year no Director held any beneﬁcial interest in any 
contract signiﬁcant to the Company’s business, other than a 
contract of employment. The Company has procedures set out 
in the Articles of Association for managing conﬂicts of interest. 
Should a Director become aware that they, or their connected 
parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction 
with the Group, they are required to notify the Board as soon 
as reasonably practicable. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
29 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 30 The Vitec Group plc
Directors’ Report
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
parent company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  For the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU;
•  For the parent company ﬁnancial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained  
in the parent company ﬁnancial statements; and
•  Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, 
at any time, the ﬁnancial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement 
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report conﬁrm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information (as deﬁned in Section 
418(2) of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The 2013 AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday,  
15 May 2013 at Prince Philip House, 3 Carlton House Terrace, 
London SW1Y 5DG.
The Chairmen of the Board and of each of its Committees 
will be in attendance at the AGM to answer questions from 
shareholders. All Directors, with the exception of Maria Richter, 
will be standing for re-appointment at the AGM.
The Company will be making use of the electronic voting facility 
provided by its registrars, Capita Registrars. The facility includes 
CREST voting for members holding their shares in uncertiﬁcated 
form. For further information, please refer to the section on 
Online services and electronic voting set out on page 117.
The Notice of the AGM and an explanation of the resolutions 
to be put to the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting 
accompanying this Annual Report. The Board fully supports all 
the resolutions and encourages shareholders to vote in favour  
of each of them.
Auditors
The Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc (“KPMG”), are willing to  
continue in ofﬁce. Separate resolutions will be put to the AGM  
to re-appoint the Auditors and to authorise the Board to agree  
their remuneration.
By order of the Board 
 
Jon Bolton 
Group Company Secretary
27 February 2013
Cautionary statement: Statements made in the Directors’ Report 
(pages 1 to 30) contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk 
factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business 
circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in 
which the Group operates. It is believed that the expectations reﬂected in 
these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range 
of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated. Nothing in these Annual Report and Accounts should 
be construed as a proﬁt forecast. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Dear Shareholder
 
The 2012 Remuneration Report sets out our approach 
to remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior 
executives. Our objective is to set remuneration at a level 
that drives our executive management team to deliver long-
term sustainable growth in shareholder value. Throughout 
2012 the Remuneration Committee has monitored executive 
remuneration packages to ensure that they remain ﬁt for 
purpose in achieving this objective, taking into account a range 
of factors including market conditions, the ability to attract 
and retain a talented management team, advice from our 
remuneration advisor and the views of our major investors. 
The structure of executive remuneration has not changed 
during 2012 following the re-balancing that we undertook 
in 2011 having consulted with our major shareholders. The 
Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed that the current policy  
on remuneration is driving the management team to deliver  
on the Group’s strategy. Our shareholders are also supportive 
of the approach to executive remuneration with over 98 per 
cent of proxy votes cast at the 2012 Annual General Meeting 
being in favour of the 2011 Remuneration Report.
The 2012 Remuneration Report complies with disclosures 
required under the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 
2002. Additionally we have taken into account emerging best 
practice on executive remuneration with the Report drafted to 
include many of the provisions of the forthcoming Department 
for Business, Innovation and Skills Directors’ Pay: Revised 
Remuneration Reporting Regulations (“BIS regulations”) that 
are anticipated to come into law in 2013. The Remuneration 
Committee recognises the need for transparent disclosure on 
executive remuneration and will move towards full compliance 
with the ﬁnal BIS regulations for the 2013 Remuneration Report 
that will be published in 2014.
During 2012, the Committee considered a range of issues,  
the detail of which is given in the Report, including:
•  Executive Directors’ pay rises with effect from 1 January 
2013 have been set at 2.5 per cent, reﬂecting pay increases 
within the Group’s workforce and current market conditions.
•  2012 bonus payments to Executive Directors averaged 79 
per cent of the maximum potential award. This has been 
earned against the Group delivering proﬁt before tax* of 
£36.2 million, an increase of 9.7 per cent over 2011. Each 
Executive Director is required to mandatorily defer 50 per 
cent of the bonus into the Deferred Bonus Plan for three years 
ensuring that focus on long-term growth is encouraged.
•  Long Term Incentive awards made in 2010 to Executive 
Directors vested at a level of 92.4 per cent of their 
performance conditions and clearly reﬂect growth in 
shareholder value during the performance period including 
growth in proﬁts, dividends and share price. The share price 
increased from £3.81 at the award date to £6.3525 at 31 
December 2012, being the end of the performance period.
•  The structure of the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan has been  
set to drive Executive Directors to deliver a budget that the 
Board considers to be challenging, particularly when viewed 
against the backdrop of current market conditions.
•  The Committee has conﬁrmed the need for Executive Directors 
to build a signiﬁcant shareholding in the Company of at least 
one times base salary over a reasonable period of time.
For 2013 the Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor 
the Group’s remuneration policy to ensure that it remains ﬁt 
for purpose in delivery of the Group’s growth strategy and 
to ensure that executive remuneration provides rewards that 
support delivery of that strategy. We do not propose any 
signiﬁcant changes to the current remuneration policy for 
2013. We will begin a consultation with our major investors on 
the need to renew our Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred 
Bonus Plan at the 2014 Annual General Meeting ahead of the 
expiry of the current plans. The Remuneration Committee will 
consider performance conditions tied to long-term awards 
to ensure that they remain sufﬁciently demanding to drive 
performance.  
The Committee will also consider on-going performance 
against the targets set for the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan.  
Finally, the Committee will consider disclosures to be made  
in the 2013 Remuneration Report in compliance with the  
BIS regulations.
The 2012 Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory vote 
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2013.  
I will attend the Annual General Meeting and will be available  
to answer questions on our Remuneration Report and our  
policy on executive remuneration.
Simon Beresford-Wylie 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Report
REMUNERATION REPORT
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted 
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
Remuneration Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/remuneration_report_2012 Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report
This Report contains the information required under the  
Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code as issued  
in June 2010 and under the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002. The Report also reﬂects a number of 
forthcoming provisions to be brought into effect under BIS 
regulations that are anticipated to become law in 2013 and  
the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 that will apply  
to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following 
throughout 2012:
Simon Beresford-Wylie – Chairman
Maria Richter 
Nigel Moore 
John Hughes 
Carolyn Fairbairn – appointed 1 February 2012
John McDonough –  appointed 15 March 2012 and resigned  
1 June 2012 on becoming Chairman  
of the Board
All of the Committee members are independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the 
remuneration packages, including base salaries, annual  
cash bonus arrangements, participation in incentive schemes, 
pension arrangements and all other beneﬁts received by  
the Executive Directors. The Committee also oversees the 
framework of senior executive remuneration, including  
members of the Operations Executive, including terms  
of service, pay structure, annual cash bonus, pensions,  
share incentive arrangements and all other beneﬁts.
The former Chairman, Michael Harper, the current Chairman, 
John McDonough, the Group Chief Executive, Stephen Bird,  
the Group Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, the former Group 
HR Director, Cathy Walkington and the Group Development 
Director, Martin Green, attended meetings by invitation in the 
year ended 31 December 2012. The Executive Directors or 
members of the Operations Executive are not present when 
their own remuneration is being considered. 
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, with the 
Chairman or the relevant Non-Executive Director abstaining 
when his or her remuneration is considered. 
For further information regarding governance for the 
Remuneration Committee see pages 57 and 58.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
Remuneration packages are developed to attract, retain and 
motivate Executive Directors and senior executives without 
being excessive, and to be aligned with both the interests  
of shareholders and the business strategy of the Company.  
They take into account the responsibilities and risks involved 
and remuneration packages in comparable companies that  
have similar scale international operations. Consideration of 
remuneration and beneﬁts across the Company’s employee 
population is also taken into account.
Remuneration for the Executive Directors is comprised of 
several elements including base salary, annual cash bonus, 
Long Term Incentive Plan, pension contribution and other 
beneﬁts including car allowance, life assurance, permanent 
health insurance and healthcare. The table on the following page 
summarises each element of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors including link to strategy, operation, maximum 
opportunity, any performance metrics and changes made  
during the year ended 31 December 2012.
32 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance metrics Changes in 
year ended 31 
December 2012
Base salary Base salary is set at a level 
to secure the services of a 
talented Group Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director 
with the ability to develop  
and deliver a growth strategy
Paid monthly in arrears Not applicable Continued satisfactory 
performance in the role of 
Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director. This 
includes development and 
delivery of Group strategy  
and budgets associated  
with growth in long-term 
sustainable shareholder value
5% and 3% for 
Stephen Bird 
and Paul Hayes 
respectively  
with effect from 
1 January 2012
Annual bonus To provide a material incentive 
to deliver stretching strategic 
and ﬁnancial performance and 
to grow long-term sustainable 
shareholder value
Paid annually following 
publication of full year results
125% of salary Stephen Bird - 30% tied to 
achievement of personal 
objectives; 46.7% tied to 
achievement of targets set 
against the Group’s proﬁt 
before tax*; and 23.3% tied 
to achievement of targets set 
against the Group’s working 
capital to sales. Paul Hayes 
– Same metrics except that 
personal objectives totals 25%, 
Group proﬁt before tax* 50% 
and Group working capital  
to sales 25%
No change
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
To provide a long-term retention 
incentive for the Group 
Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director involving the 
Company’s shares. To link long-
term rewards to the creation 
of long-term sustainable 
shareholder value
Awarded to the executive 
and subject to stretching 
performance conditions over a 
three year performance period. 
At the end of the performance 
period and subject to 
satisfaction of performance 
conditions the shares vest  
to the executive
100% of salary; 
value based on 
share price at 
award date
50% of the award is subject 
to the Company’s Total 
Shareholder Return compared 
to a comparator group 
measured over a three year 
period and 50% of the award 
is subject to targets set against 
growth in the Company’s 
earnings per share* over  
the same three year period
No change
Deferred 
Bonus Plan
Deferral of annual bonus  
into the Deferred Bonus Plan 
focuses the Executive Director 
on long-term value delivery  
and growth
50% of the annual bonus is 
mandatorily deferred into the 
Deferred Bonus Plan. The 
deferred bonus is used to 
purchase Core award shares 
held in an employee trust over 
a three year performance 
period. Subject to satisfaction 
of performance conditions, 
Matching award shares  
are awarded
Up to 1 Matching 
share for every  
1 Core share  
can apply
Same performance conditions 
as the Long Term Incentive Plan
No change
Pension 
contribution
To provide the Executive 
Director with a contribution 
towards a personal pension 
arrangement of the executive’s 
choice and to provide a beneﬁt 
compatible with market rates 
Paid monthly in arrears 20% of salary None No change
Other Beneﬁts 
including car 
allowance, life 
assurance, 
healthcare and 
permanent 
health 
insurance
To provide the Executive 
Director with ancillary beneﬁts 
compatible with market rates
Paid monthly in arrears for 
car allowance and permanent 
health insurance. Annual 
payment for healthcare  
and life assurance
Not applicable None No change
Clawback To ensure that Executive 
Directors do not beneﬁt 
from inappropriate 
behaviour, including material 
misstatement, misconduct  
or material ethical breach 
against the Company’s  
Code of Business Conduct
Applies to awards under the 
annual bonus, Long Term 
Incentive Plan and Deferred 
Bonus Plan – any material 
breach may result in the after 
tax value of an award being 
clawed back
As per awards 
detailed above
Inappropriate behaviour, 
including material misstatement, 
misconduct or material ethical 
breach against the Company’s 
Code of Business Conduct
No change
REMUNERATION REPORT
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted  
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items. The Committee received advice from Deloitte LLP as the 
Committee’s appointed remuneration advisor during the year 
ended 31 December 2012. Deloitte have a wide range of 
experience and knowledge on executive remuneration for 
multinational companies such as the Company and are able  
to provide detailed background and context to enable the 
Committee to come to an informed decision on executive 
remuneration. This advice related to disclosures in the 2011 
Remuneration Report, measurement of performance conditions 
associated with long-term incentive arrangements, changes  
to performance conditions associated with long-term incentive 
arrangements, a proposal to re-balance the senior executive 
Annual Bonus Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan and  
general remuneration advice. Deloitte’s total fees for 2012 work 
and advice relating to executive remuneration was £76,200.  
Deloitte also provided other services to the Company during  
the year, including work and advice relating to expatriate tax, 
international relocations and corporate ﬁnance. Deloitte are 
members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and are 
committed to that group’s voluntary code of practice for 
remuneration consultants in the UK. The Committee also  
received advice and administrative support from the Group 
Company Secretary, Jon Bolton, the Group Business 
Development Director, Martin Green and the former  
Group HR Director, Cathy Walkington.
The Remuneration Committee, when determining Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, takes into account remuneration and 
employment terms and conditions, including levels of pay for all 
employees of the Company. The Committee is kept informed on:
• Salary increases for the general employee population;
•  Company-wide beneﬁt provision including pensions, share 
incentives, bonus arrangements and other ancillary beneﬁts;
• Overall spend on annual bonus; and
•  Participation levels and outcomes in the Annual Bonus Plan 
and Long Term Incentive Pan.
The Committee as part of the background to setting executive 
remuneration receives detailed market data on executive 
remuneration from Deloitte. 
The Committee believes that it is beneﬁcial both for the 
individual and the Company for an Executive Director to take  
up one external non-executive appointment. Remuneration 
received by an Executive Director in respect of such an external 
appointment would be retained by the Director. Stephen Bird 
was a Non-Executive Director of Umeco PLC until 20 July 2012, 
a position he held since October 2006. In this capacity,  
Stephen Bird received a basic fee of £35,000 per annum and  
an additional fee of £5,000 per annum as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. On 10 January 2013, Stephen Bird 
was appointed an independent Non-Executive Director of 
Dialight plc. In this role he receives a basic fee of £40,000 per 
annum and an additional £5,000 per annum in the role of Senior 
Independent Director. Under the terms of his service contract, 
Paul Hayes, with the agreement of the Group Chief Executive 
and Chairman, may take up one external non-executive 
appointment of a listed company. As of the date of this report  
no such external non-executive appointment has been made.
The Committee currently has no intention of amending the above 
stated policy; however, it will be reviewed from time to time.
Remuneration policy for senior managers and   
other employees 
The remuneration policy for other senior managers in the 
Company is similar to that of the Executive Directors other  
than the quantums are different. 
Senior managers’ remuneration contains a signiﬁcant element 
that is dependent upon ﬁnancial performance of the Company, 
the Company’s share price as well as individual performance. 
Remuneration for all other employees is set taking into account 
local market conditions to ensure that pay and beneﬁts attract 
and retain employees. All employees are able to participate  
in an annual bonus plan that is tied to Company ﬁnancial 
performance as well as individual performance against personal 
objectives. Whilst the structure of bonus plans varies across  
the employee workforce, approximately 50 senior managers 
participate in the Annual Bonus Plan that is the same structure 
as described for the Executive Directors although the limits and 
performance conditions vary.
All full time employees in the UK, US, Italy, Costa Rica,  
Israel and Germany are able to participate in an all-employee 
sharesave plan granting employees an option to save and 
purchase a limited number of shares in the Company at a 
discount to the market price at the time an offer of the plan is 
made. Over 540 employees participated in the latest offer made 
in August 2012. Over 50 senior managers also participate in  
the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan that awards shares 
subject to satisfaction of performance conditions over a three 
year performance period. 
All full time employees are also offered membership of a 
pension scheme upon joining the Company which is compliant 
with local legal requirements. In the UK, employees are able to 
join a deﬁned contribution pension plan with both the employee 
and employer making ﬁxed contributions.
Executive Directors’ remuneration 
The Executive Directors’ remuneration comprises a basic 
salary, an annual cash bonus, long-term share incentives,  
a car allowance, healthcare, membership of the Group’s 
personal pension scheme or a contribution to their own 
personal pension arrangement, permanent health insurance  
and life assurance.  
Remuneration Report
34 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Base Salary 
With effect from 1 January 2013, Stephen Bird’s base salary 
was increased from £389,550 to £399,289 (a 2.5% increase) 
and Paul Hayes’ base salary was increased from £267,800 to 
£274,495 (a 2.5% increase). This increase reﬂects the average 
increase given to employees across the Group as a whole.
Salaries for Executive Directors will be reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee in December 2013 for 2014 taking 
into account several factors including Company and individual 
performance, pay increases for the Company’s employees, 
market rates for Executive Directors’ remuneration and 
prevailing economic conditions at that time.
Annual Bonus Plan
The 2012 Annual Bonus Plan has been structured as follows 
for the Executive Directors:
Each Executive Director under the 2012 Annual Bonus Plan  
can receive a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary, 
50% of which is mandatorily deferred into the Deferred Bonus 
Plan (see later). The ﬁnancial elements of the Annual Bonus Plan 
for each Executive Director are based upon actual ﬁnancial 
results achieved for Group proﬁt before tax* and Group  
working capital to sales measured against the 2012 Budget  
as set by the Board. The Remuneration Committee considered 
that these two ﬁnancial performance targets have the most 
direct impact upon shareholder value for that ﬁnancial year.  
The Remuneration Committee does not publish speciﬁc details 
of these ﬁnancial targets since it believes they are commercially 
sensitive and that it would not be in the Company’s best interests 
to do so. 
For both ﬁnancial targets the following trigger points were used 
in 2012:
• 90% or less of budget – Threshold – resulting in no payout;
•  100% of budget for Group proﬁt before tax* and 95% of 
budget for Group working capital to sales – Target – 
resulting in half of the maximum payout;
•  105% of budget – Maximum – resulting in a maximum 
payout; and
•  A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the 
above points.
The personal objective element of the 2012 Annual Bonus  
Plan for each Executive Director is based upon individual 
performance measured against stretching personal objectives 
set by the Board and Remuneration Committee. 
Both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes are required to mandatorily 
defer 50 per cent of the 2012 Annual Bonus into the Deferred 
Bonus Plan. They cannot however defer any more of the 
Annual Bonus. The deferred cash bonus is used to purchase 
Core award shares that potentially attract Matching award 
shares subject to the achievement of stretching performance 
conditions over a three year performance period. 
Under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan the Remuneration 
Committee retains a full and absolute discretion as to whether  
a bonus is payable or not that may be used only in exceptional 
circumstances, taking into account the overall ﬁnancial 
performance of the Company. Any use of this discretion in 
connection with an Executive Director will be clearly explained  
in the Remuneration Report. To date, the Remuneration 
Committee has not exercised any such discretion.
The Annual Bonus Plan for 2013 has been structured to  
ensure that Executive Directors and senior management  
remain focused on the delivery of stringent ﬁnancial targets. 
Both Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes will participate in the 2013 
Annual Bonus Plan that may deliver a maximum bonus of  
125% of salary.
 Personal Objectives
 30% of total
  Group Working Capital to Sales 
23.3% of total
 Group Profit Before Tax* 
 46.7% of total
Stephen Bird Paul Hayes
 Personal Objectives
 25% of total
  Group Working Capital to Sales 
25% of total
 Group Profit Before Tax* 
 50% of total
REMUNERATION REPORT
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted 
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items. For 2013 the Remuneration Committee has changed Stephen 
Bird’s Annual Bonus Plan structure so that 25 per cent relates  
to satisfaction of personal objectives, 50 per cent relates to 
satisfaction of targets set for Group proﬁt before tax* and  
25 per cent relates to satisfaction of targets set for conversion  
of operating proﬁt* into operating cash. Paul Hayes’ 2013 Annual 
Cash Bonus Plan retains the same percentages as for 2012 but 
reﬂects this change in performance condition to conversion of 
operating proﬁt* into operating cash.
The ﬁnancial measures have been adjusted to give greater  
focus on key performance indicators for the business. Whilst 
Group proﬁt before tax* remains a key ﬁnancial measure, the 
Remuneration Committee has agreed that the other ﬁnancial 
measure be changed to conversion of operating proﬁt* into 
operating cash. The use of a percentage target with a sliding 
scale depending upon the level of cash generation achieved  
has been set. To drive the right behaviours in the business a full 
year target and a quarterly average target for the conversion of 
operating proﬁt* into operating cash has been set. This change is 
considered beneﬁcial to focus management on delivery of cash 
and is better understood by participants in the Annual Bonus Plan 
as well as being a key ﬁnancial metric for our investors.
In spite of the current macroeconomic uncertainty, the Board 
considers the budget set for 2013 to be signiﬁcantly stretching. 
The Committee has set the following trigger points for the 
ﬁnancial targets of the 2013 Annual Bonus Plan:
• 90% or less of budget – Threshold – resulting in no payout;
•  100% of budget – Target – resulting in half of the maximum 
paying out;
• 110% of budget – Stretch – resulting in maximum payout; and
•  A straight line sliding scale operates between each of the 
above points.
The operating proﬁt* into operating cash generation element  
of the Annual Bonus Plan will only be payable in the event  
that the proﬁt before tax* element reaches the threshold level. 
The Remuneration Committee retains an absolute discretion  
in connection with the Annual Bonus Plan for 2013, enabling  
it to reduce or increase payments up to the maximum limit in 
exceptional circumstances or where an outcome would have  
an undesirable effect such as an anomalous payment of  
bonus when Company ﬁnancial performance does not merit a 
payment. Any use of discretion would be clearly reported in a 
subsequent Remuneration Report with the rationale explained.
Long-Term Incentive arrangements 
The Company has the following long-term incentive 
arrangements in place.
The Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at  
the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used in 
connection with bonuses paid since then arising from the  
Annual Bonus Plan and will continue to be used in 2013.
The Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders  
at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and has been used to 
make awards to the Executive Directors, the members of the 
Operations Executive and to the Group’s senior management  
as envisaged when shareholder approval was received. The  
level of awards for the Executive Directors and members of the 
Operations Executive in 2012 were one times salary, based on 
the Company’s share price at the date of award. Awards for 
2013 will be at the same level. Awards for the Group’s senior 
management are based on a speciﬁc number of shares, but 
which does not exceed one times salary.
The Unapproved Share Option Plan was approved by 
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in  
2002, its rules expired in April 2012 and grants were last made 
in March 2008 to Executive Directors in ofﬁce at that time. No 
further awards can be made under that Plan. The performance 
conditions for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and 
the Deferred Bonus Plan are set out on pages 37 and 38.
Monitoring and measuring performance conditions takes place 
following the end of each ﬁnancial year when the Company’s 
results have been audited and at the end of the relevant 
performance period. 
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not 
participate in the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements 
and consequently do not hold any share options or other  
share incentives.
Awards and grants under the Group’s incentive arrangements 
are within the overall ﬂow limits advised by the Association of 
British Insurers to limit potential dilution arising from the issue of 
new shares. Awards vesting under the Long Term Incentive Plan 
and Deferred Bonus Plan are satisﬁed from existing shares 
through the Company’s Employee Trust.
Performance targets and vesting levels are reviewed by the 
Remuneration Committee ahead of each time an award is  
made to ensure that they remain sufﬁciently demanding and  
are aligned with long-term shareholder interests.
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted  
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
Remuneration Report
36 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Long Term Incentive Plan 
Executive Directors and other senior employees are selected 
to receive awards over shares that vest in whole or in part 
depending on the satisfaction of performance conditions.  
For awards made before 2010 under the Plan the performance 
condition was based solely on the Company’s TSR over a 
period of three years, relative to a comparator group of other 
companies. The comparator group comprised companies 
of similar market capitalisation and having at least 50% of 
their turnover arising outside of the UK. Due to the size of 
the comparator group (approximately 60 in total), it is not 
practical to detail it fully in this report. The Group Company 
Secretary can provide this detail if required. The Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the composition of the comparator group 
in conjunction with its remuneration consultants annually  
ahead of awards being made to ensure that they were  
relevant and sufﬁciently demanding. 
For awards made since 2010 the Remuneration Committee, 
having consulted with major shareholders, decided to amend 
the performance condition to provide a more meaningful 
measure of performance. 50% of an award is measured based 
upon TSR as described above. However, 50% of an award  
is subject to growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per 
share (“EPS”)*. Each performance condition is entirely 
independent from the other performance condition.
Performance condition 
For that part of an award made before 2012 measured against 
TSR, if the Company’s TSR performance is at the median  
of the comparator group at the end of the three-year 
performance period, 35% of that element of an award may  
vest. The full element of an award may vest if the Company’s 
TSR performance is in the top 20% of the comparator group.  
There is a pro-rata straight line vesting between these two points. 
For that part of an award measured against EPS* growth made 
in 2010, if the percentage growth in the EPS* of the Company 
exceeds the percentage growth in the Retail Price Index (RPI) 
over the three-year performance period by 4% (Compound 
Average Growth Rate), 35% of that element of an award may 
vest. Full vesting of an award occurs if the growth in EPS*  
over the performance period exceeds growth in RPI by 8% 
(Compound Average Growth Rate) or greater. There is a 
pro-rata straight line vesting between these two points.  
An award lapses if the lower point under both performance 
conditions is not achieved during the performance period  
and there is no re-testing of performance under either 
performance condition. The Remuneration Committee  
will also consider the underlying ﬁnancial performance  
of the Company before it conﬁrms vesting. 
For awards made in 2011 the same performance conditions 
applied as in 2010 except that the EPS* growth ﬁgures were 
5% and 10% respectively. 
Following consultation with major shareholders, awards made 
in 2012 and going forward will have the following performance 
conditions attached:
50% of an award will be subject to TSR with the Company’s 
TSR performance ranked against the constituents of the  
FTSE 250 index (excluding ﬁnancial services companies  
and investment trusts) over a three year performance period. 
The constituents of the FTSE 250 index have a greater level of 
complexity and internationality when compared to the previous 
comparator group constituents and so are more comparable 
to Vitec’s business operations where approximately 90%  
of revenues are generated outside the UK. Threshold 
performance for the TSR performance condition will be at  
the median point of the comparator group and will result in 
25% of an award vesting. Full vesting for the TSR element  
will be at the upper quartile point of the comparator group.  
A straight line sliding scale will operate between each of  
the above points.
50% of the award will be subject to EPS* growth over a three 
year performance period. For awards made in 2012 the EPS* 
growth ﬁgures were set at 6% for 25 per cent vesting and  
12% for full vesting. The Remuneration Committee has not  
yet made awards of LTIPs to Executive Directors and senior 
managers for 2013 and these will be made in the 42 day 
period following the announcement of full year results on 28 
February 2013. The detail of performance conditions will be 
clearly set out in the announcement detailing the award made. 
The Remuneration Committee takes into account market 
consensus ﬁgures, advice from its corporate broker and 
internal forecasts to determine that these targets are 
sufﬁciently stretching when making awards. 
Dividends that would have been paid on shares vesting under 
the Long Term Incentive Plan during the performance period 
are re-invested in additional shares.
There will be no re-testing of either performance condition and 
the Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying 
ﬁnancial performance of the Company before it conﬁrms vesting.
TSR is calculated on the basis of growth in the Company’s 
share price over a three year performance period plus dividends 
paid during that period and is expressed as a percentage of 
average compound annual growth. Share price performance  
is averaged over three months at the start and end of a 
performance period to eliminate volatility that may result in 
anomalous outcomes. The TSR performance is independently 
veriﬁed by Deloitte on behalf of the Committee and is ranked 
against the comparator group companies’ TSR performance 
to determine the outcome.
EPS* is determined in accordance with note 2.5 of the  
Financial Statements.
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted 
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
REMUNERATION REPORT Deferred Bonus Plan 
Executive Directors and members of the Operations Executive 
are required to defer a proportion of any after tax cash bonus 
in exchange for receiving a Core award over shares in the 
Company with a value equivalent, at the date of award, to the 
amount of the deferred bonus. For bonuses earned in 2011, 
or before, a minimum of 20% of bonus for Executive Directors 
and 15% of bonus for the Operations Executive members was 
required to be deferred. However, subject to the discretion of  
the Remuneration Committee, the executive could voluntarily 
decide to defer a higher proportion up to a maximum of 100% 
of any bonus paid under the annual bonus scheme. Both 
Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes have deferred 100% of their 
annual bonuses earned in 2011 and before. For bonuses earned 
in 2012 and onwards Executive Directors must mandatorily 
defer 50% of any after tax bonus earned into the Plan. There 
is no discretion to defer any more or less. A Core award may, 
in normal circumstances, be exercised by a participant after 
two years. If exercise is deferred for three years, the executive 
remains employed by the Group, and subject to satisfaction 
of the performance conditions, the participant is entitled to 
receive a Matching award of additional shares up to the number 
comprised in the Core award. Dividends that would have been 
paid on the Core award of shares and the actual Matching 
shares that vest during the performance period are re-invested  
in additional shares. 
Performance condition 
For awards under the Plan made before 2010, if the executive 
remains in employment for three years, and if in that period 
the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to a 
comparator group of other companies is at median, or above,  
of the comparator group, the deferred Core shares will be 
matched at the rate of:
•  One Matching share for every three Core shares at median 
performance; and
•  One Matching share for every one Core share within the top 
20% performance.
•  If performance is below the median then no Matching awards 
will be given and the participant will receive only their Core 
award shares and associated dividend shares.
There will be pro-rata straight line vesting between these points. 
The comparator group comprises the same group used for the 
Long Term Incentive Plan.
For awards under the Plan made since 2010 the performance 
condition has changed to the same as applies to the Long Term 
Incentive Plan for that respective year. There is no re-testing of 
performance under either performance condition.
Clawback 
A clawback policy applies to any award made under the Annual 
Bonus Plan, Long Term Incentive Plan or Deferred Bonus Plan 
from 2011 onwards. Under the policy any Executive Director 
or senior executive found to have beneﬁted from an award due 
to inappropriate behaviour, including material misstatement, 
misconduct, or a material ethical breach against the Company’s 
Code of Business Conduct may have the after-tax value of that 
award clawed back.
Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan 
The Group operates a savings-related share option scheme in 
the UK and a similar international plan in respect of overseas 
employees in certain countries. The scheme and plan are open 
to all the Group’s employees in those countries, including the 
Executive Directors. Under the scheme and plan, participants 
contract for either a three or ﬁve year term (two years in the 
US) to save a set amount each month (up to £250 maximum or 
equivalent in local currency) in return for which they are granted 
an option over a speciﬁed number of shares. The price of the 
option is ﬁxed at the date of grant and, in the UK, has a 20% 
discount to the market price. In other countries the discount 
applied is either the same or less to reﬂect local regulations.  
At the end of the savings period, participants may exercise 
their options to buy shares in the Company using their savings. 
Exercise is not subject to any performance condition. Invitations 
under the Group’s Sharesave arrangements are usually made 
annually and these are planned to continue.
The existing rules for the scheme and plan were approved by 
shareholders at the AGM in May 2011 and will expire in May 2021.
Service Contracts 
Stephen Bird, aged 52, was appointed a Director and Group 
Chief Executive of the Company on 14 April 2009 and is 
employed under a service contract dated 28 January 2009.
Paul Hayes, aged 46, was appointed a Director and Group 
Finance Director of the Company on 13 June 2011, and is 
employed under a service contract dated 3 June 2011.
The notice period by the Company to the employee is twelve 
months and notice by the employee to the Company is six 
months. The terms of the service contracts do not provide for 
pre-determined amounts of compensation in the event of early 
termination by the Company. The Remuneration Committee’s 
policy in the event of early termination of employment is to 
mitigate compensation to the fullest extent practicable.  
This means that base salary and beneﬁts (including pension)  
will be paid for the notice period subject to being mitigated if  
the executive secures other suitable employment. Entitlement  
to any annual cash bonus in the event of early termination will  
be subject to consideration by the Remuneration Committee 
around the nature of the termination, period served during the 
ﬁnancial year and achievement of ﬁnancial targets and personal 
objectives allied to the Annual Bonus Plan. Long-term incentive 
awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Bonus 
Remuneration Report
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted  
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
38 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Plan will be subject to consideration by the Remuneration 
Committee at the time of an early termination to consider the 
circumstances around the early departure. Generally, such 
awards will be pro-rated to the date of departure and will 
remain subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions  
in the normal time frame.
Both service contracts for Stephen Bird and Paul Hayes are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered ofﬁce  
and through the Group Company Secretary.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have 
service contracts but serve under letters of appointment. 
The initial period of their appointments is three years but their 
appointments may, by mutual consent, and with the approval 
of the Nominations Committee and the Board, be extended for 
a further three years. Appointments may be extended beyond 
six years by mutual consent, and with the approval of the 
Nominations Committee and the Board, if it is in the interest  
of the Company to do so.
Annual General Meeting 
This Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory vote at the 
Company’s AGM to be held on 15 May 2013. Details of the 
venue and business to be considered at the AGM is given in 
the Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Annual Report.
The 2011 Remuneration Report was put to an advisory  
vote at the AGM held on 8 May 2012. The resolution was 
passed on a show of hands. 98.4% of proxy votes received 
voted in favour of the 2011 Remuneration Report.
Five-year share price performance 
Under the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002, the Company is required to include 
a graph showing the Company’s performance compared 
to an appropriate index over a ﬁve year period. The graph 
illustrates the Company’s annual TSR (share price growth plus 
dividends that have been declared, paid and re-invested in 
the Company’s shares) relative to the FTSE Small Cap, FTSE 
All-Share Media and FTSE Industrial Engineering Index for the 
preceding ﬁve year period, assuming an initial investment of 
£100. These indices have been chosen for the purpose of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 since they 
are a suitably broad-based equity market index. 
Five year Total Shareholder Return performance  
2008-2012
 
 
To produce a ‘fair value’ each point is a 30 trading day average 
of the indices. TSR data is taken from Datastream. 
TSR comprises share price growth plus dividends paid over a 
three year period and is expressed as a percentage of average 
compound annual growth. 
200
150
100
250
50
0
300
£
31 Dec
2007
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec
2012
FTSE Small Cap
FTSE All-Share Media
FTSE Industrial Engineering Index
The Vitec Group plc
REMUNERATION REPORT The following information on pages 40 to 43 has been audited 
by the Company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
Directors’ remuneration 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
John McDonough, who was appointed a director on 15 March 
2012 and became Chairman on 1 June 2012, is paid a fee of 
£140,000 per annum. His predecessor, Michael Harper, who retired 
as Chairman on that date was paid a fee of £120,000 per annum.
The fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors is £40,000 
per annum. Fees were last increased in June 2010. Fees for the 
Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, Committee Chairmen and 
Senior Independent Director roles are reviewed annually by the 
Board with the support of Deloitte providing market data to 
ensure that fees remain appropriate given time commitment  
and the need to attract the right experience for the role. There  
is no commitment to increase fees annually. The Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other beneﬁts from 
the Company.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit 
Committee, Simon Beresford-Wylie and Nigel Moore respectively, 
receive an additional fee for their services as chairmen of those 
Committees. Simon Beresford-Wylie receives an additional 
£5,000 per annum and Nigel Moore receives an additional 
£8,000 per annum. An additional fee of £5,000 is also paid to  
the Senior Independent Director, Nigel Moore. The fees for the 
Chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were 
approved in August 2008 and remained unaltered in 2012.  
The fee for the role of the Senior Independent Director was last 
increased in July 2011 to reﬂect work associated with the role. 
Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive 
Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive, currently receives an 
annual salary of £399,289, increased from £389,550 with effect 
from 1 January 2013 (an increase of 2.5%). Stephen Bird is not 
a member of the Group Personal Pension Plan, but receives 
a contribution of 20% of his basic salary in the form of an 
alternative pension contribution. Stephen Bird was paid a bonus 
of £386,434 in respect of 2012 based upon an assessment of 
the achievement of ﬁnancial and personal objectives for 2012. 
This represented 79.3% of the maximum bonus potential. 
The ﬁnancial objectives represented 70% of the bonus and 
comprised Group proﬁt before tax* representing two thirds of 
the ﬁnancial objectives total and Group working capital to sales 
targets representing one third of the ﬁnancial objectives total 
measured against the 2012 budget. The operation of the 2012 
Annual Bonus Plan is summarised on page 35.
The Group proﬁt before tax* element was 97.2% achieved and 
the Group working capital to sales element was 30% achieved. 
30% of the bonus was measured against personal objectives 
set by the Board and included:
• Development of a world class senior management team;
•  Evaluating the strategic options for the Staging business and 
executing on conclusions;
•  Responding to economic conditions including good market 
intelligence and contingency plans for key businesses;
•  Delivery on Manfrotto strategic objectives including 
development of management team, market share and 
innovative products; and
•  Corporate activity including integration of Lastolite and 
Haigh-Farr, successful acquisition and integration of Camera 
Corps and succession around the role of Chairman. 
These personal objectives were 90% achieved.
50% of the after tax bonus for 2012 will be mandatorily deferred 
into the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Stephen Bird will be eligible for a performance related bonus 
based on the Company’s ﬁnancial performance and personal 
objectives for the year ending 31 December 2013 of up to 
125% of base salary.
On 16 April 2012 Stephen Bird received 200,286 shares from 
the vesting of an award made to him in April 2009 under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan that fully achieved the stretching TSR 
performance condition. In addition, he received associated 
dividend shares totaling 16,650 shares. Over the three year 
performance period, the Company’s TSR was 229%, leading  
to the Company being ranked 6th out of a comparator group  
of 46 companies and resulting in full vesting. The Company’s 
share price when the award was made in 2009 was £1.75 per 
share and on vesting in April 2012 was £6.60. The Committee 
considers this outcome consistent with the strong underlying 
ﬁnancial performance of the Company over this period and  
that full vesting was appropriate.
Paul Hayes, Group Finance Director 
Paul Hayes, Group Finance Director, currently receives an 
annual salary of £274,495 increased from £267,800 with effect 
from 1 January 2013 (an increase of 2.5%). Paul Hayes is not 
a member of the Group Personal Pension Plan, but receives 
a contribution of 20% of his basic salary in the form of an 
alternative pension contribution. Paul Hayes was paid a bonus 
of £267,298 in respect of 2012 based on an assessment of  
the achievement of ﬁnancial and personal objectives for 2012.  
This represented 79.8% of the maximum bonus potential. 
The ﬁnancial objectives represented 75% of the bonus and 
comprised Group proﬁt before tax* representing two thirds of 
the ﬁnancial objectives total and Group working capital to sales 
targets representing one third of the ﬁnancial objectives total 
measured against the 2012 budget. The operation of the 2012 
Annual Bonus Plan is summarised on page 35. The Group  
proﬁt before tax* element was 97.2% achieved and the  
Group working capital to sales element was 30% achieved. 
Remuneration Report
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted  
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
40 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 41
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25% of the bonus was measured against personal objectives 
set by the Board and included:
• Renegotiation of the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility;
•  Review of strategic options for the Staging business and 
execution on conclusions;
• Execute internal tax initiatives;
• Development of supply chain strategy;
•  Contingency plans and key indicators with robust plans  
of action;
•  Further embed risk assurance programme and de-cluttering 
of ﬁnancial statements; and
•  Streamline reporting and improve focus on measures that 
drive performance.
These personal objectives were 95% achieved. 
50% of the after tax bonus for 2012 will be mandatorily 
deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Paul Hayes will be eligible for a performance related bonus 
based on the Company’s ﬁnancial performance and personal 
objectives for the year ending 31 December 2013 of up to 
125% of base salary.
Richard Cotton 
Richard Cotton, appointed a Director on 3 November 2008 
under a service contract dated 17 September 2008, ceased 
to be a Director and an employee of the Company on 4 
February 2011. Under the terms of his severance package 
and in accordance with the terms of his service contract the 
Company made 12 monthly payments of salary and pension 
contributions and he also received:
•  12 monthly payments of £400 per month in lieu of Private 
Health Insurance;
• A contribution of £5,621 for private healthcare cover;
• A Company car with a value of £20,000; and
• Outplacement support up to a value of £30,000.
He also received Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred 
Bonus Plan awards pro-rated to the date of departure and 
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions on the 
third anniversary of each respective award. During the year 
ended 31 December 2012, Richard Cotton received the 
following payment from the Company in accordance with  
the vesting of an LTIP award:
On 16 April 2012 Richard Cotton received 87,426 shares  
from the vesting of an award made to him in April 2009 under 
the Long Term Incentive Plan and that had fully achieved 
performance conditions. In addition, he received associated 
dividend shares totaling 7,268 shares. The Committee 
considers this outcome consistent with the strong underlying 
ﬁnancial performance of the Company over the performance 
period as described for Stephen Bird above.
The table below sets out the beneﬁcial interests in the 
Company’s ordinary shares of the Executive Directors as at  
1 January 2012 and changes throughout the year ended  
31 December 2012:
*    Includes 77,821 shares and 54,875 shares (as at 31 December 2012 and  
1 January 2012 respectively) purchased in the market using funds supplied by 
Stephen Bird and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust, in respect of awards made 
under the Vitec Group 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan.
**  Includes 8,843 shares (as at 31 December 2012) purchased in the market 
using funds supplied by Paul Hayes and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust,  
in respect of awards made under the Vitec Group 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan.
There have been no other changes to these beneﬁcial interests 
between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company’s 
share price reached a high of 740 pence and a low of  
547 pence.
Director
Shareholding 
Requirement
Shareholding 
1 January 
2012
Value of 
Shareholding 
assuming share 
price of  
£6.3525 as at  
31 December  
2012
 
Shareholding 
31 December 
2012
Stephen Bird 100% of  
base salary
95,323* £803,534 
(representing 
201% of  
1 January 2013 
base salary)
126,491*
Paul Hayes 100% of  
base salary
24,000 £208,653 
(representing 76% 
of 1 January 2013 
base salary)
32,843**
REMUNERATION REPORT Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ long-term incentives
   Options Options Options   Market 
  At exercised lapsed granted At 31  price at   
  1 January during during during December Exercise exercise Date from 
Directors’  Date of 2012 year year year 2012 price date which Expiry  
share options grant (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence) exercisable date
Stephen Bird
Sharesave options May 2009 6,984 6,984 - - - 131 648.5 Jul 2012 Dec 2012
 Sept 2012 - - - 1,657 1,657 543 - Nov 2015 Apr 2016
Paul Hayes
Sharesave options Sept 2012 - - - 1,657 1,657 543 - Nov 2015 Apr 2016
Total   6,984 6,984 - 3,314 3,314 
Detailed Audit Disclosures
Details of the directors’ remuneration and share incentives for 2012 with comparatives for 2011 are set out in the following tables.  
All of these tables have been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
      Performance  Pension 
  Salaries and    related Long-term related 
  fees  Beneﬁts
 (1) 
 annual bonus incentives remuneration  Total
                       
 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 
Director’s name £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman                    
John McDonough  
(appointed on 15 March 2012) 111,364 - - - - - - - - - 111,364 -
Former Chairman                    
Michael Harper 50,000 120,000 - - - - - - - - 50,000 120,000 
(until 1 June 2012)
Executive Directors                    
Stephen Bird 389,550 371,000 26,519 25,414 386,434 323,816 1,431,778 - 77,910 74,200 2,312,191 794,430
Paul Hayes  
(appointed on 13 June 2011) 267,800 143,890 21,879 9,113 267,298 124,797 - - 53,560 28,778 610,537 306,578
Richard Cotton  
(left on 4 February 2011) 28,393 265,000 400 60,421 - - 624,980 - 5,048 53,000 658,821 378,421
Non-Executive Directors                    
Simon Beresford-Wylie 45,000 45,000 - - - - - - - - 45,000 45,000
Nigel Moore 53,000 50,753 - - - - - - - - 53,000 50,753
Maria Richter 40,000 40,000 - - - - - - - - 40,000 40,000
Will Wyatt  
(until 19 May 2011) - 16,071 - - - - - - - - - 16,071
John Hughes 
(appointed on 11 March 2011) 40,000 32,438 - - - - - - - - 40,000 32,438
Carolyn Fairbairn 
(appointed on 1 February 2012) 36,666 - - - - - - - - - 36,666 -
Total  1,061,773 1,084,152 48,798 94,948 653,732 448,613 2,056,758 - 136,518 155,978 3,957,579 1,783,691
(1)
  The principal beneﬁts are a Company vehicle cash allowance, medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance. 
Remuneration Report
42 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 43
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Awards Associated Awards Awards  Market Market 
  Awards at exercised dividend lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
  1 January during shares with during during December award exercise 
Awards under the  Date of 2012 the year exercised  the year the year 2012 date  date 
Long Term Incentive Plan award (shares) (shares) awards (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird  
 Apr 2009 200,286 200,286 16,650 - - - 175 660
 Mar 2010 
(1)
 94,619 - - - - 94,619 381 -
 Mar 2011 62,352 - - - - 62,352 595 -
 Apr 2012 - - - - 58,124 58,124 674 -
Paul Hayes  
 Apr 2012 - - - - 39,958 39,958 674 -
Richard Cotton  
(left on 4 February 2011)
 Apr 2009 87,426 87,426 7,268 - - - 175 660
 Mar 2010 
(1)
 20,650 - - - - 20,650 381 -
Total  465,333 287,712 23,918 - 98,082 275,703 
    Awards Awards Awards  Market Market 
   Awards at exercised lapsed made At 31 price at price at 
   1 January during during during December award exercise 
Awards under the   Date of 2012 the year  the year the year 2012 date  date 
Deferred Bonus Plan  award (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (shares) (pence) (pence)
Stephen Bird                
   Mar 2010             
   Core 26,185  - - - 26,185 385 -
  Matching 
(1)
 26,185 - - - 26,185 385 -
  Mar 2011             
   Core 28,690  - - - 28,690 608 -
  Matching 
(1)
 28,690  - - - 28,690 608 -
  Apr 2012             
   Core -  - - 22,946 22,946 677 -
  Matching 
(1)
 - - - 22,946 22,946 677 -
Paul Hayes                
   Apr 2012             
   Core -  - - 8,843 8,843 677 -
  Matching 
(1)
 - - - 8,843 8,843 677 -
Richard Cotton 
(left on 4 February 2011)
  Mar 2010             
  Matching 
(1)
 5,569 - - - 5,569 385 -
Total   115,319 - - 63,578 178,897
(1)
  There is a performance condition attached to the Matching awards that is detailed on page 38. For the purposes of this table and footnotes, where 
the award has not yet been ﬁnally performance tested, 100% vesting is assumed. The Deferred Bonus Plan award made in March 2010 has achieved 
92.4% of its performance condition based on TSR and EPS* growth. 92.4% of Matching awards will therefore vest in 2013.
Performance conditions associated with the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan are set out on pages 37 and 38. 
Other than as disclosed in the table footnotes, there have been no other changes to these interests in the period from 31 December 
2012 to 27 February 2013.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Jon Bolton 
Group Company Secretary
(1)
  The Long Term Incentive award made in March 2010 has achieved 92.4% of its performance condition based on TSR and EPS* growth. 92.4% of 
awards will therefore vest in 2013.
REMUNERATION REPORT
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businessesand disposal of business.  
In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items. We reported in 2011 the setting up of a Group-wide team of representatives from  
each Division and the Head Ofﬁce to co-ordinate the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activity. This team includes the Group Company Secretary, the Group Head of 
Strategic Projects and Divisional HR and operations representatives. The work of  
this team has continued throughout 2012 with meetings held on a monthly basis  
by telephone or video conference to share corporate responsibility practices  
being undertaken at business unit and Divisional level as well as championing  
Group-wide initiatives. 
In 2012 we focused on two key Group-wide priorities. Firstly, to encourage our 
employees to consider adopting healthier lifestyles through a project known as  
Good3 and, secondly, the environment and efforts to accurately record and reduce  
our carbon footprint. Progress against each is given under the Environment and 
Employees sections. The work of the team is reported to the Operations Executive  
on a monthly basis through the Group Head of Strategic Projects or the Group 
Company Secretary and it will continue to develop the Group’s corporate  
responsibility activities in 2013 and beyond.
The following pages describe our 2012 corporate responsibility activities organised  
in the following areas:
While our main purpose 
remains the creation of 
value, we are aware that 
the way we do business 
matters, as it can have  
an inﬂuence on all of  
our stakeholders. 
We believe that our 
corporate responsibility 
efforts will engage and 
motivate our employees, 
add value for our customers 
and protect our reputation, 
beneﬁting the Company, 
our shareholders and all 
other stakeholders.
Our corporate purpose is to provide vital products and services that support the 
capture of exceptional images. To do this we operate with the following values:
> Product excellence – everything we make and do is exceptional
> Creative solutions – we are constantly looking to break new ground
> Integrity – what you see is what you get
> Customer focus – we are nothing without our customers
> Collaboration – we work better when we work together
Our corporate responsibility efforts are to protect our reputation and the value of our 
business. Corporate responsibility is central to sustainable growth and we recognise 
that our stakeholders increasingly consider corporate responsibility matters in decision 
making about whether to invest in Vitec or to buy our products and services. The 
Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility matters and has formally 
approved our Code of Business Conduct and our Environmental Policy. Both of  
these are available on our web site.
Corporate Responsibility
Stephen Bird conﬁrms Vitec’s  
commitment to corporate responsibility 
Environment
Page 46
Employees 
Page 48
Business Ethics 
Page 45
Community & 
Charitable Donations 
Page 51
Corporate Responsibility Report online 
www.vitecgroup.com/responsibility
44 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 45
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our Approach
Vitec’s Board has implemented a robust 
governance framework including a  
Code of Business Conduct that is 
communicated to all employees and 
major business partners articulating our 
values, beliefs and behaviours. Where 
appropriate we train our employees  
on key issues including bribery and 
corruption and promote a whistleblowing 
service as a back-up control
Our Vision
Ensure our employees have a clear 
understanding of what is expected  
of them in conducting business in the  
right way with a common set of values.  
We expect our business partners to 
abide by standards that are compatible 
with our own
Business Ethics
Code of Business Conduct Anti-bribery Whistleblowing service
Our Code of Business Conduct  
(Code) provides clear guidance to our 
employees on how they are expected to 
behave towards employees, suppliers, 
customers, shareholders and on our 
wider responsibility to the communities 
within which we operate. The Code, 
which is available on our website, sets 
out our approach to business integrity 
including an express prohibition on 
bribery and kickbacks, guidance on  
gifts and hospitality, conﬂicts of interest, 
books and records, competition, share 
dealing, human rights, respect for the 
individual and privacy, diversity, health 
and safety, environmental sustainability, 
business partners, and charitable and 
political donations. 
To ensure that the Code is understood 
by our employees, each employee has 
been given a copy and all new starters 
are provided with a copy. When new 
businesses have been acquired the 
Code has been rolled out to employees 
in those new businesses to ensure that  
a common Group-wide approach to 
business ethics is in place.
All employees are expected to comply 
with the Code and any violations of it  
are to be reported to local management 
or the Group Company Secretary  
for investigation.
We operate an independent 
whistleblowing service in conjunction 
with Expolink. This service enables any 
employee or third party who feels that 
the normal reporting channels through 
line management are not appropriate,  
to conﬁdentially report any issues around 
dishonesty, fraud, bribery, malpractice, 
bullying, unfair treatment, unsafe working 
practices or other contraventions of our 
Code. All such reports are notiﬁed to the 
Group Company Secretary, the Group 
Chief Executive and the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and are independently 
investigated by senior management who 
are not connected to the report. The 
outcome of investigations is reported to 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The service will be re-communicated to 
our employees in 2013 to ensure that  
it remains visible and understood. The 
service is introduced to all employees of 
new businesses on acquisition. During 
2012 all whistleblowing reports were 
investigated with remedial actions 
undertaken where necessary.
We have continued with the 
development of our employees’ 
understanding of anti-bribery and 
corruption as reﬂected in our Code  
of Business Conduct. To date, over  
500 employees have undertaken an 
online training module (also translated 
into Italian, German and Japanese) 
including the Board of Directors, 
Operations Executive, senior executives 
and customer-facing employees 
covering anti-bribery and corruption.  
All participants were required to 
complete the module and to take a test 
on the issues covered by the training.  
All new starters who ﬁt into this group  
of employees are required to undertake  
the training and our aim is to further 
develop the training in 2013 to build 
upon employees’ understanding and 
knowledge of this issue.
During 2012 we communicated our 
Code of Business Conduct on a 
risk-based approach to our major 
suppliers, customers, agents and 
distributors with an express prohibition 
on bribery. We have either secured their 
agreement with the terms of the Code  
or secured evidence of their own ethics 
procedures including an express 
prohibition on bribery.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 46 The Vitec Group plc
Our Vision
Become increasingly environmentally 
friendly without impacting our 
competitiveness
Our Approach
We are creating a “green culture” by 
adopting technologies, materials and 
processes that will have the lowest impact 
on the environment
Environment
Vitec’s products and processes Vitec’s green practices
In 2012 we continued to implement initiatives aimed at 
sustaining and protecting the environment, in the areas of 
research and development, production, packaging and  
waste disposal.
By their very nature, our products and services have a low 
impact on the environment: we use low-hazard materials;  
we minimise the use of resources during the manufacturing 
process; and we search for materials that are sustainable  
and can be recycled and re-used.
Our efforts and environmental awareness have continued to 
evolve, not only to comply with regulations but also to make  
our business better. By putting in place a proper environmental 
management system we are reducing operating costs and 
business risks, while ensuring sustainability.
An example of how innovation and technology play a critical role 
in helping reduce the impact on the environment is LED lighting, 
which is produced by Litepanels and Manfrotto. LED technology 
has signiﬁcant beneﬁts over traditional lighting as LED lights last 
ten times longer than a regular incandescent bulb and are four 
times more energy efﬁcient. The dramatic cut in the amount of 
energy used translates to ﬁnancial savings for users along with 
creating a cleaner environment. 
IMT has been working to standardise its product line in an 
environmentally friendly way to comply with the most strict 
environment regulations at a worldwide level. It has also 
instituted a recycling plan for expired batteries and light bulbs. 
These are collected and disposed of with authorised recyclers.
As part of our commitment to responsible business practices,  
in 2012 we implemented initiatives aimed at reducing energy, paper 
and water use, encouraging recycling and proper waste disposal 
and promoting a culture of sustainability among our employees.
We monitor and track our usage of gas, electricity and water 
across our manufacturing, warehouse and administrative sites 
and make efforts, where possible, to reduce our usage both in 
terms of reducing costs and impact on the environment. Many 
buildings within the Group have timer and motion sensors for 
lighting to save on electricity usage. Other buildings have 
programmable thermostats that are centrally managed to optimise 
the building’ s heating and cooling needs, therefore maintaining  
a steady temperature. 
The electricity contracts with Green Certiﬁcates at the Italian sites 
were renewed in 2012, conﬁrming the commitment to use energy 
generated by renewable sources. Our Mount Olive, New Jersey, 
site also acquired 50% of its energy from renewable sources 
throughout the year.
The Group’ s gas, electricity and water usage per £million of Group 
revenue over the last ﬁve years is set out below.
Our gas usage  
Gas - mega watt hours / £m revenue
30.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Our electricity usage 
Electricity - mega watt hours / £m revenue
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
25.5 25.4 25.1
20.3
18.7
37.0
35.2
37.5
35.2 35.7
Corporate Responsibility
Environmental Policy online 
www.vitecgroup.com/environmental_policy Annual Report & Accounts 2012 47
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
0.12
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
Vitec objectives and future plans
Progress versus 2011
Over recent years we have made progress in energy efﬁciency 
and the use of renewable energy where practical. However, 
being aware that the environment presents many cost, 
regulation and reputational risks, our aim for the future is to 
develop a clear environmental plan, set up a rigorous reporting 
system to capture data in a consistent way across the whole 
Group and to identify opportunities for cost and energy reduction. 
In the second half of 2012 we undertook a project to capture the 
Group’ s greenhouse gas emissions. This is partly in recognition of 
the forthcoming need for listed companies to mandatorily report 
on carbon emissions anticipated to come into effect in 2013.  
We engaged the Carbon Trust on this project to capture Scope 1 
and 2 emissions from 23 of our major operating sites using 2011 
as a baseline year and, having set up that reporting system, have 
extended the capture of emissions for 2012. Apart from enabling 
the reporting of emissions, this information will give the Group 
data to enable it to identify potential cost savings.
Results for carbon reporting using 2011 data give an overall 
carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2) of 8.5 kt CO2e (intensity ratio 
of 24 tonnes CO2e/£m of revenue). This covered the principal 
operations of the Group and is indicative at this stage, with  
the quality of data being veriﬁed to ensure that compliance  
with mandatory reporting is achievable. Scope 2 emissions 
(purchased electricity) were the largest contributor to the 
Group’s emissions. Results for 2012 give an indicative overall 
carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2) of 8.3kt CO2e (intensity ratio  
of 24 tonnes CO2e/£m of revenue). 
Potential areas of saving have been identiﬁed through two 
speciﬁc audits completed by specialists in our larger production 
sites in the UK and Italy. These include energy efﬁcient lighting, 
staff awareness, regular maintenance programmes, 
optimisation of machinery and equipment switch off and 
optimisation of control around air conditioning. Associated 
capital requirements and payback periods are being assessed 
to identify the best opportunities to pursue, balancing the need 
to deliver on other business priorities in 2013 and beyond.  
We will continue to work towards improving the quality of data 
to enable external veriﬁcation of the Group’s greenhouse gas 
emissions and will also consider the opportunity to set targets 
around the Group’s carbon footprint. We will report on 
progress towards these in the 2013 Annual Report.
> Co-ordinated Group efforts to reduce emissions versus 
fragmented initiatives
> Improved process management, through Group-wide 
monthly calls and regular updates to the Group Chief 
Executive
> Improved measurement and reporting
> Appointment of Carbon Trust to support the Group in the 
process around the capture and reporting on greenhouse 
gas emissions
Our water usage 
Water - cubic metres / £m revenue
Our sites in Bassano and Feltre in Italy have had their  
ISO 14001 status renewed in 2012, conﬁrming that these 
operations have designed and implemented effective 
environmental management systems in place. The Bury  
St Edmunds site undertook a GAP analysis and internal 
assessment of the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard 
with the aim of achieving the certiﬁcation.
Ofﬁces and manufacturing sites have waste recycling points  
to enable the sorting of waste into different recycling streams 
(paper, glass, plastics and general). At our main manufacturing 
sites in the UK, Italy and Costa Rica, we carefully manage the 
recycling of machine shop swarf arising from the manufacturing 
process. In 2012 a total of 214.5 tonnes of waste metal were 
recycled at the three sites, including aluminium, steel, brass, 
bronze, iron and magnesium. The manufacturing sites in  
Italy and Costa Rica sites also managed the recycling of  
90.7 tonnes of paper and plastic. The recycling largely  
covers the cost of waste management at our main sites.
This Annual Report is produced using vegetable-based inks 
and materials approved by The Forest Stewardship Council. 
We also encourage our shareholders to receive the Annual 
Report electronically thereby saving on production and 
distribution resources and costs.
Most of the Group’s operating sites including the Head Ofﬁce, 
Divisional head ofﬁces and business units have video 
conference facilities in place enabling employees to video 
conference with both internal and external parties and to 
optimise the need for business travel. 
LED lights produced by Litepanels and Manfrotto  
last ten times longer and are four times more energy 
efﬁcient than regular bulbs resulting in ﬁnancial 
savings for users and a cleaner environment.
0.11
0.10 0.10
0.08 0.08
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 48 The Vitec Group plc
Engagement
Internal Communication  
Our strategy is to provide an engaging and stimulating 
environment where our employees want to develop and feel  
part of a collaborative, global community. We communicate  
with our employees on a regular basis, keeping them informed 
on business performance at a Group, Divisional and business  
unit level. 
During the year all employees received two global 
communication webcasts from the Group Chief Executive 
focusing on strategy, priorities, results and key events for 2012.  
In March 2012 a Management Conference took place in 
London, involving the senior managers across the Group 
covering strategy, results, main achievements and team  
building activities. As part of this the Group Chief Executive  
gave recognition awards to the best performers in different  
areas based on our Group values. The conference outcome  
was circulated to all employees via staff meetings and a 
dedicated website.
Apart from Group level communications, employees receive 
brieﬁngs on performance and business issues on a regular  
basis from Divisional and business unit senior management.  
This takes the form of company newsletters, breakfast meetings 
with Divisional management, quarterly business updates and  
via Divisional intranet sites.
Our people are a key asset for the Group
We are fully aware that our employees are critical for the success of the business. Passionate, motivated, skilled employees  
in a good working environment can directly contribute to our strategy, performance and reputation.
In 2012 we continued to focus time and resource on our employees, hosting initiatives on subjects such as wellbeing, 
engagement and training events.
In recognition, in early 2013 Vitec’s Italian sites, covering approximately 600 employees, were awarded the “Top Employers” 
certiﬁcation by the CRF Institute for their high employment standards. All critical areas of HR processes were assessed 
including beneﬁts, working conditions, training and development, career development and company culture.
In 2012 the Imaging Division launched a new communication 
initiative on HR matters to its employees: People Focus.  
Its objective is to enable employees to clearly identify and 
engage with all the programmes that form part of the culture of 
working at Vitec, including wellness, engagement, development, 
working environment and team building. The goal is to share 
best practices and extend the visual approach in engaging 
employees with the other Divisions, creating a co-ordinated 
Group-wide programme. 
During 2012 the Manfrotto School of Xcellence programme – 
www.manfrottoschoolofxcellence.com – continued, providing 
employees with training on photography and on the world of 
imaging. The programme involves professional photographers 
and educates employees about capturing excellent images.  
This involved over 80 employees in 2012, with 17 seminars  
on each aspect over the course of the year.
Our Approach
We are attracting and engaging a 
committed workforce, ensuring diversity 
and non-discrimination
Our Vision
Be a responsible employer providing 
attractive opportunities for our people  
to develop
Employees
Corporate Responsibility
Working at Vitec 
www.vitecgroup.com/working_at_vitec Annual Report & Accounts 2012 49
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Health and Safety
The provision of a healthy, safe and productive work environment 
for all our employees is a priority for Vitec, for which all our 
management and employees are held accountable. 
In 2012 we continued to impress the need for excellent  
health and safety procedures and the Group’s Health and 
Safety Policy was updated. This will be re-issued in 2013  
and is available on the Group website. This policy sets  
the Group-wide guidelines for the prevention of accidents  
and work-related ill-health and provides guidance for the  
adequate control of health and safety risks arising from 
work-related accidents. 
All accidents, whether they result in absence from work or not, 
plus near misses, are reported and remedial action identiﬁed 
and implemented to prevent such occurrences in the future. 
Reporting is prompt with any accident resulting in over three 
days absence reported to senior Divisional management  
as well as the Group Chief Executive as soon as possible.  
Our six year accident record is shown below, which details  
the number of accidents resulting in over three days’  
absence from work across the Group.
Wellbeing
Our six year accident record 
There have been no work related fatalities since the Group 
began collating Health & Safety statistics in 2002.
The Operations Executive reviews health and safety 
performance every month, discussing any incidents of note 
and supports the Divisions in the management of local health 
and safety committees and the implementation of regular 
training activity. The Board is regularly updated on health  
and safety performance by way of monthly reports and at 
Board meetings. Employees receive training on health and 
safety procedures that are appropriate to their line of work  
and environment. This may, for example, involve training  
in warehouse operations, DSEAR, working at heights,  
ﬁre safety or more general initiatives to make employees  
aware of the dangers that can be encountered in the  
execution of their various duties.
In Italy an awareness campaign called “Are you working 
safely?” was launched in the ofﬁces and plants, comprising 
short monthly tips on a speciﬁc health and safety subject 
posted on employee notice boards. Imaging Italian sites  
had the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety 
certiﬁcation conﬁrmed in 2012.
Good3
The ‘Good3’ project, launched in 2011 in the Group’s  
Imaging sites, continued throughout 2012. 
The programme was developed to help employees to stay 
healthy, by providing them with training and tools to develop 
good habits in the areas of diet, exercise and the prevention  
of illnesses. Within Imaging this involved healthy eating 
initiatives and discounted membership rates for employees  
at two local sports centres.
Videocom started to plan Good3 activities in 2012, hosting 
health-related talks to employees by an occupational health 
provider. The topics covered were smoking and  
healthy eating.
The intention is to extend Good3 initiatives across the Group. 
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
6 accidents
8 accidents
10 accidents
10 accidents
16 accidents
20 accidents
representing 288 accidents per 100,000 employees
representing  390 accidents per 100,000 employees
representing  525 accidents per 100,000 employees
representing  511 accidents per 100,000 employees
representing  723 accidents per 100,000 employees
representing  976 accidents per 100,000 employees
1 2
1 A Manfrotto School of Xcellence  
event with employees
2 The logo of the Vitec  
wellness programme
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Health & Safety Policy 
www.vitecgroup.com/health_and_safety 50 The Vitec Group plc
The Group has developed a shared management web-site 
called The Hub that contains training materials for senior 
management. The Hub has focused on the core business 
priorities of building the right organisation, developing commercial 
acumen, operational excellence and working together. A range 
of training modules and materials within each priority is available 
and senior management are required to undertake modules to 
develop their knowledge of the key priorities.
The performance appraisal process, in operation in each of the 
Divisions, provides the opportunity for the employee to discuss 
current performance and future potential with their line manager 
in an objective and positive manner. The development needs 
identiﬁed by the discussions will be used in 2013 to enhance  
the global programme of talent development for release more 
widely across the Group.
Opportunity
Vitec has an equal opportunities culture with an express 
prohibition on discrimination of any kind. In 2011, Lord Davies’ 
report on Women on Boards was considered by the Board 
leading to a reiteration of our diversity statement, which is set  
out on page 55 of the Corporate Governance section and on  
our website. The organisation’s current gender breakdown  
is as follows:
Board of Directors 
25% women, following the appointment of Carolyn Fairbairn  
in February 2012; 75% men 
Operations Executive 
During 2012 the Operations Executive comprised 90% men  
and 10% women
Senior Management 
11% of the top leaders in the business are women; 89% men
Rest of Organisation 
25% female; 75% male
Vitec’s approach to diversity has always been to follow a strict 
policy of sourcing the best person for the role irrespective of 
race, gender, age or disability. We are keen to develop further 
the recruitment of talented women to the organisation at all 
levels and are developing policies and procedures across the 
Group to achieve this.
It is Vitec’s policy that applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and ability of the applicant concerned.  
In the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable 
effort is made to ensure that their employment within the  
Group continues. It is our policy that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons should be,  
as far as possible, identical to that of all other employees.
Working Environment
We continue to invest in improving the work environment for  
our employees, creating contemporary spaces with upgraded 
technology and communication systems that enable collaboration 
and personal efﬁciency. In 2012, the Group relocated employees 
in the US and Japan into new premises and is also in the 
process of relocating its Manfrotto Lighting and Manfrotto 
Distribution UK businesses into a combined site in the UK.
Beneﬁts 
We employ around 1,900 employees in 12 different countries  
who are managed in accordance with local employment 
legislation, policies and our organisational values. Attracting the 
talent we need and retaining their commitment to our organisation 
in all of the territories in which we operate has required the 
organisation to commence an assertive approach to our beneﬁts 
packages in order to support our employees and to remain 
competitive in a global market where talent is in short supply. 
In the US our employees participate in a consolidated Health 
Beneﬁts Plan that provides a valued level of healthcare.  
Similar plans are offered to employees in other territories.
Employees are provided with the option to join pension plans 
appropriate to local markets and in the UK this involves a Group 
Personal Pension Plan with minimum employer and employee 
contributions and in the US a 401k plan. 
Employees in the UK, US, Italy, Costa Rica, Israel and Germany 
are further given the opportunity to join a Sharesave scheme on 
an annual basis, enabling the employee to save a ﬁxed amount 
each month to purchase shares in the Company at a discounted 
rate. Following the successful maturity of the 2009 offer to nearly 
250 employees in the summer of 2012 we offered Sharesave  
or an equivalent plan to all employees in these countries in 
August 2012. Over a third of eligible employees took up the  
offer showing a good level of interest in this beneﬁt. 
As part of the People Focus activities in Imaging’s Italian sites,  
a new Vitec Shopping Card was launched at the end of 2012. 
The card allows employees to beneﬁt from special prices on 
food, drinks, travel, clothing, sport, cinema and medicine 
through agreements with local retailers. These discounts of up  
to 50% help employees to increase their purchasing power.
1 New Manfrotto Distribution US 
headquarters
2 Costa Rica manufacturing plant
3 The Vitec Shopping Card and  
retailers’ guide
123
Capability/development
Learning and development activity continued to take place in our 
businesses in accordance with the personal development plans 
put in place in 2010, results of annual performance appraisals 
and organisational need. In 2011, the Organisation and Talent 
Review (OTR) was introduced in order to fully understand the 
organisation’s capacity and capability for achieving its strategic 
plans. The OTR enables the Operations Executive to create the 
leadership pipeline for its critical roles and specify the 
development requirements to be offered to employees.  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Responsibility
Our Approach
We emphasise initiatives and projects 
strongly backed by employees, that are 
relevant to what we do and that can be 
supported for several years
Our Vision
Support the communities in which  
we operate
Community & Charitable Donations
Kingston University Television and  
Video Technology department: 
The Head Ofﬁce maintained its link  
with Kingston University’s Television  
and Video Technology department with  
a donation of £2,500 in 2012. This 
donation was part used to provide 
further broadcast equipment including 
some of the Company’s products giving 
over 200 students the opportunity to use 
ﬁrst-hand the Company’s broadcast and 
photographic equipment including Vinten, 
Manfrotto and Autoscript products. 
In 2012, we set speciﬁc guidelines for community and charitable donations to have a consistent Group approach.  
In prior years each Division handled charitable giving on their own, reducing the positive impact of our efforts with  
only local visibility of the initiatives supported.
For the whole year the Vitec Group and its subsidiaries donated £71,173 to charitable and community-based causes 
(2011: £152,143). 
The following are a few examples of the good work being done by Vitec in the communities within which we operate.
St Nicolas Hospice: 
Videocom’s Head Ofﬁce supported the 
charity care facility for people with life 
threatening illnesses and their families 
based in Bury St Edmunds through 
various donations totalling £2,553. 
(www.stnicholashospice.org.uk)
The V Foundation for Cancer 
research: 
Services’ Head Ofﬁce supported the 
13th ESPYS Celebrity Golf Classic, 
which beneﬁts The V Foundation for 
Cancer Research. The Company 
provided full technical system support for 
a total value of approximately £7,100 
and donated £6,100 to the event.  
(www.jimmyv.org); (www.espygolf.com)
Orto in Condotta: 
Imaging’s Head Ofﬁce sponsored a three 
year educational project for primary 
schools in the area of Bassano del 
Grappa on sensory, consumer and 
environmental education, as well as 
lessons on food culture and gardening. 
The project was developed and 
sponsored by Slow Food Italy.
School teachers were trained to carry 
out the programme and they worked 
with parents and grandparents to 
support the project. The creation of 
school gardens were accompanied  
by workshops that trained children and 
parents to appreciate the importance  
of healthy food. The project started  
in 2010, with a total donation of  
£6,500 over the three year period.  
(www.slowfood.it)
Water Aid: 
Manfrotto Lighting in the UK donated 
£3,000 to Water Aid and a further 
£6,000 to Village of India, Reaching  
the Unreached, a UK registered charity 
that supports charitable work in India  
for the poor. The Company has had  
a long-standing relationship with the 
speciﬁc town in India that it supports  
for over forty years, and employees  
wish to maintain that link. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
51 52 The Vitec Group plc
Your Board, under my Chairmanship,  
is responsible to all Vitec stakeholders  
for providing strong leadership and 
effective decision-making to ensure  
the continued success of the Group  
and the implementation of our strategy.  
We strive to work in accordance with 
best corporate governance practice and 
evolve those practices and procedures to 
deliver long-term sustainable shareholder 
value. I believe it is important that you 
understand how the Board operates. 
Following my appointment to the Board in March 2012 and  
my appointment as Chairman on 1 June 2012, I am pleased to 
present my ﬁrst corporate governance report to shareholders. 
The ﬁrst part of the year was under Michael Harper’s 
Chairmanship and I believe that we have a sound and robust 
corporate governance framework in place, which I conﬁrm  
has applied throughout 2012.
Since my appointment I have undertaken a thorough induction 
to the Group including visits to the major business sites in the 
US, UK and Italy, and meeting large numbers of our people, 
speciﬁcally spending time with the members of the Operations 
Executive. I have learnt more about the products and services 
we offer and how each business operates in its chosen markets 
and segments, along with the internal governance processes 
and procedures that exist to support our operations. To gain a 
better understanding of the Group externally, I have met with  
our corporate advisors and with a number of our major 
shareholders and their governance representatives. 
The fundamental value of good governance is that it seeks to 
ensure that a Company is well run, providing a framework for 
accountable and effective decision making. Having completed 
my induction and become familiar with our senior managers  
I am conﬁdent that we have a talented management team in 
place to meet our stakeholders’ expectations of delivery on  
our strategy. 
In reporting to stakeholders on governance matters, your  
Board has taken into account the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) as introduced in June 2010 and has 
considered some of the forthcoming changes to the Code  
for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012  
(new Code) insofar as they relate to disclosure of diversity 
statistics and policy. We report on progress in complying with  
the requirements of the new Code and will work towards full 
compliance in the 2013 Annual Report.
Your Board and their biographies are set out on pages 26  
and 27. During 2012 we appointed Carolyn Fairbairn as an 
independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February. 
I joined the Board on 15 March and, following Michael Harper’s 
retirement on 1 June, succeeded him as Chairman. 
Maria Richter will not be standing for re-appointment at the 
2013 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) having come to the end 
of her term of appointment. We will therefore go forward after 
the AGM with a slimmed down Board of seven Directors 
including myself as Chairman, four independent Non-Executive 
Directors and two Executive Directors. In order to ensure Board 
continuity during my ﬁrst year as Chairman, Nigel Moore will 
Corporate Governance
Chairman John McDonough reports on 
Vitec’s corporate governance following 
his appointment in 2012
Corporate Governance online 
www.vitecgroup.com/corporate_governance Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
remain as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Having been appointed a Director in March 
2004, the Board and I conﬁrm that Nigel continues to provide 
rigorous independence and commitment to the role. His 
experience particularly on ﬁnancial matters, governance  
and the management of risk is considered vital at this time  
of transition for the Board. The Board and I will continue to 
consider the issue of succession within the Board and will 
announce our plans in due course.
My governance review reports on how we have applied the 
Main Principles of the Code and I am pleased to conﬁrm that 
we have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code 
throughout 2012, as required by the Listing Rules. 
Leadership
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for  
the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable performance 
and the creation of long-term shareholder value. However, 
there are separate roles for each member of the Board and  
we have agreed a clear division of responsibilities between  
the Chairman and Group Chief Executive. Full details of  
our respective roles and responsibilities can be found  
on our website. 
It is my responsibility to manage the Board. I work closely with 
the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary to 
achieve this, ensuring that all Directors are kept advised of key 
developments, that they receive accurate, timely and clear 
information and that they actively participate in the decision-
making process. Board agendas are reviewed and agreed in 
advance to ensure that each meeting utilises the Board’s time 
most efﬁciently. I encourage all Board members to openly and 
constructively challenge the proposals made by executive 
management led by the Group Chief Executive. I ensure that 
each Director properly exercises the power vested in them 
and in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
relevant law and any directions as provided by the Company 
in general meeting. Apart from the remuneration of directors 
or directors’ fees there were no instances when a Director had 
to abstain from voting on a matter due to a conﬂict of interest. 
The Board has adopted a formal procedure for dealing with 
any such conﬂicts or potential conﬂicts of interest.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for managing the 
day-to-day running of the business. The Operations Executive 
supports the Group Chief Executive in this duty, the members 
of which are shown on page 25. The Group Chief Executive 
and I have developed a good working relationship over the 
past nine months, meeting regularly outside of scheduled 
Board meetings to discuss strategy, performance and to 
ensure that Board meetings cover relevant matters. Our 
relationship helps to underpin the working of the Board, 
providing for an open forum in which matters are discussed.
Nigel Moore is the Senior Independent Director having been 
appointed to that position in May 2011. In this role, Nigel 
has provided support particularly in the area of succession 
planning, speciﬁcally during early 2012 for ﬁlling the vacancy  
of Chairman of the Board. This process is described more  
fully under Overview of the Nominations Committee.
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved 
to it, which includes, amongst other items: consideration 
and development of the Group’s strategy; setting of annual 
operating budgets; annual review of progress against strategy 
and budget; ﬁnancial results, dividends and capital structure of 
the Company; risk management strategy and various statutory 
and regulatory approvals. The Board also considers a wide 
range of other matters not expressly detailed in the Matters 
Reserved to the Board, including but not limited to, succession 
planning and talent development both for the Board and senior 
management team. During 2012 the Matters Reserved to the 
Board were reviewed and updated to ensure compliance with 
best practice. The full schedule of Matters Reserved to the 
Board can be found on our website.
During 2012 the Board dealt with the following matters: approval 
of the ﬁnancial results for 2011 and the half year results for 2012 
including dividend policy; acquisition and integration of Camera 
Corps; disposal of the Staging business; negotiation of a new 
ﬁve year £100 million revolving credit facility; Board succession, 
related appointments and Non-Executive Directors’ fees;  
Group strategy and 2013 budget; output of an internally 
facilitated Board and Committee evaluation; review of the 
strategic risks facing the Group with mitigating actions; review 
of ﬁnancial controls; performance against 2012 objectives and 
setting of 2013 objectives; ongoing ﬁnancial performance; 
various property, legal and share incentive matters; and  
revised Group policies and procedures.
To monitor its ongoing performance during 2012, the Board 
set itself several objectives for the year. These are detailed 
in the section on Board performance evaluation. The agreed 
objectives were reviewed at regular intervals during 2012 to 
monitor progress. We have set further objectives for 2013  
that I will report on in next year’s Annual Report. 
In addition to the matters reserved to itself, the Board 
delegates certain items to its principal Committees. I feel it 
is appropriate to ensure that the Board has sufﬁcient time to 
deal with strategic matters while retaining oversight on salient 
points by virtue of its Committees. The Board’s three principal 
committees are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees. Each Committee operates under clear Terms 
of Reference which were updated during the year to reﬂect 
emerging best practice. Copies of the current Terms of 
Reference are available on our website. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
53 Each Committee is authorised to seek any information it  
requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform 
its duties and to obtain, at the Company’s expense, outside 
legal or other professional advice on any matter within its Terms 
of Reference. Each Committee, at least once a year, reviews 
its own performance, constitution and Terms of Reference 
to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and 
recommends any changes it considers necessary to the  
Board for approval. 
The Remuneration and Audit Committees each agreed their 
objectives for 2012 in order to monitor their progress and 
performance. Progress on each objective is set out in this  
report under the relevant section for that Committee.  
Objectives for these two Committees have been set for  
2013 and an evaluation of progress against these objectives  
will be reported in next year’s Annual Report.
In 2012 the Board met eight times, of which six were scheduled 
at the start of the year and two were held at short notice. 
Details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings is shown in the table on page 63 including any instance 
when a Director was unable to attend and the reason. When 
any Director is unable to attend they continue to receive the 
necessary papers and I seek to contact them in advance  
of the meeting to obtain their views and decisions on the 
proposals to be considered.
The Board did not hold a meeting overseas in 2012 as this  
was re-scheduled at short notice due to business priorities.  
The Board intends to hold a meeting at one overseas  
business each year in the foreseeable future to allow Directors  
to develop their understanding of operations. Each Director  
is also encouraged to visit operations when appropriate  
to further their understanding of the business and meet 
operational management.
As part of the wider governance framework it is important to 
explain the workings of the Operations Executive. The Group 
Chief Executive chairs the monthly meetings of the Operations 
Executive which discusses ongoing business performance and 
enables the Group Chief Executive to manage the business 
with his direct reports. I receive an update from the Group Chief 
Executive on any salient matters resulting from each meeting. 
I was pleased to welcome members of the Operations Executive 
to a number of Board and Committee meetings during 2012, 
along with the Group Risk Assurance Manager. Their attendance 
allows the Board to directly question those senior managers 
responsible for the business and to gain a better understanding 
of their respective businesses. This practice will continue in  
the future.
Effectiveness
A key event for the Board in 2012 was the retirement of Michael 
Harper as Chairman with effect from 1 June 2012, and my 
appointment with effect from the same date. I believe that the 
transition has been smooth and successful as evidenced by  
the internal Board evaluation described later on.
The Non-Executive Directors bring independent character and 
judgement to bear on strategic matters, the performance of the 
Group, the adequacy of resources and standards of conduct. 
The Board considers that Simon Beresford-Wylie, Maria 
Richter, Nigel Moore, John Hughes and Carolyn Fairbairn are 
independent in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Code. Each Director brings a complementary set of skills to the 
Board, having served in companies of varying size, complexity 
and industries. When combined, these skills give your Board 
the comprehensive skill set required to deliver the strategic 
objectives of the Group and to ensure its continued success.
On appointment, we provide each Director with a tailored  
and extensive induction to the Group. This includes meeting 
with each of their fellow Board members, the Operations 
Executive and advisors individually, receiving brieﬁngs on each 
area of the business in turn and visiting the Group’s principal 
operations. I spoke earlier about my induction and I conﬁrm  
that Carolyn Fairbairn completed a similar induction following  
her appointment. 
All Directors, having notiﬁed me in the ﬁrst instance, are able  
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties. During 2012 no Director 
felt the need to take such advice. They also have access to  
the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary,  
who is responsible for advising the Board, through the 
Chairman, on all governance matters.
Ongoing training for new Directors and existing Directors is 
available at the request of the Director. Each Director receives 
details of relevant training and development courses from both 
the Group Company Secretary and from external bodies such 
as KPMG and Deloitte. The requirement for training is discussed 
at meetings of the Board and of its Committees and I ensure 
that each Director has the required skills and knowledge to 
enable them to operate efﬁciently on the Board. The Group 
Company Secretary maintains a register of training undertaken 
by directors to facilitate this discussion. During the year the 
Board collectively received training sessions on such matters 
as investor relations, bid defence and the Takeover Code, 
corporate governance and changes to corporate reporting. 
The Board regularly receives written updates on governance, 
regulatory and ﬁnancial matters as they are published.
Working with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company 
Secretary, I ensure that the Board receives papers for 
consideration so that it gives all Board members adequate 
time to read and, where appropriate, ask questions prior to 
the meeting about the information supplied. The information 
includes sufﬁciently detailed budgets, strategy papers, reviews 
Corporate Governance
54 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
of the Group’s ﬁnancial position and operating performance 
and annual and half-yearly reports. Each Board member 
receives a detailed monthly report from the Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Company Secretary 
and Group Development Director, plus a Health and Safety 
Report covering the ongoing performance of the business.  
The Board receives further information from time to time as 
and when requested. 
All meetings of the Board and its Committees are minuted by 
the Group Company Secretary. In the ﬁrst instance, minutes 
are reviewed by the Chairman of that meeting before being 
circulated to all Directors in attendance and then tabled for 
approval at the subsequent meeting. Any concerns raised by 
Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes of each meeting.
The Board has power at any time and from time to time to 
appoint any person to be a Director, either to ﬁll a casual 
vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, subject to a 
maximum number of 15 Directors. Any Director so appointed 
shall hold ofﬁce only until the next AGM and shall then put  
himself or herself forward to be re-appointed by the members.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial period of three years which, with  
the approval of the Nominations Committee and the Board, 
would normally be extended for a further three years. If it is  
in the interests of the Group to do so appointments of Non-
Executive Directors may be extended beyond six years, with 
the approval of the Nominations Committee, the Board and the 
individual Director concerned. Under the Company’s Articles  
of Association, each Director is required to stand for annual  
re-appointment. Full details are included within the 2013 
Notice of AGM.
On making appointments to the Board, amongst other items, 
the issue of diversity is considered. The Board agreed its policy 
on diversity during 2011 and our statement is set out below,  
as well as being published on our website.
Vitec recognises the importance of a fully diverse workforce 
in the successful delivery of its strategy. The effective use of 
all the skills and talents of our employees is encouraged and 
this extends to potential new employees. It is essential that the 
best person for the job is selected regardless of race, gender, 
religion, age, sexual orientation, physical ability or nationality. 
Vitec is fully committed to equal opportunity where talent is 
recognised. The Board will keep under regular review the issue 
of diversity including at the Board level, senior management 
level and throughout the entire workforce, taking into account 
amongst other things Lord Davies’ review Women on Boards. 
We will report upon this issue annually in our Annual Report.
The Employees section of the Corporate Responsibility 
Report contains further information on diversity, including the 
disclosure of gender diversity statistics at Board, Operations 
Executive and senior management level as well as throughout 
the organisation. 
Board performance evaluation 
We conducted an internal Board evaluation in 2012 following 
the externally facilitated evaluation in 2011 that was reported 
on in last year’s Annual Report. It is expected that the next 
externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted in 2014. 
Four major topics were covered by the 2012 internal process: 
• Evaluation of the performance of the Board by each Director;
•  Evaluation of the performance of the Committees of the 
Board by each member of the relevant Committee;
•  Evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors by the Chairman; 
and
•  Evaluation of the Chairman led by the Senior Independent 
Director taking into account the views of the Board.
The 2012 evaluation took the form of questionnaires,  
individual meetings and discussion at the Board meeting held 
in December. The Group Company Secretary and I agreed 
the format of the questionnaire, which requested Directors 
to evaluate the performance of individual Directors, Board 
Committees, the ability of the Board and Directors to set 
strategy, monitor performance, leadership, culture and 
corporate governance, taking into account the balance 
of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group by each 
Director. I subsequently followed up with each Director on the 
content of their completed evaluation forms, allowing for a 
discussion to take place around any areas for improvement. 
Nigel Moore, as Senior Independent Director, co-ordinated 
the process for the evaluation of the Chairman, with follow 
up discussions with each Director on the basis of completed 
evaluation forms. 
I am pleased to report that all your Board members considered 
that the Board, its Committees and individual Directors have 
performed effectively during 2012, both individually and as a 
collective unit. Non-Executive Directors have demonstrated a 
willingness to devote sufﬁcient time and effort to understand the 
Company and its businesses and have provided independent, 
rigorous and constructive challenge on strategy and 
operational performance. The processes, governance and 
controls around the Board were also deemed to be robust. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
55 As part of the evaluation, each Director identiﬁed several issues 
to enable the Board to focus on key areas in the year ahead. 
These have enabled the Board to set itself several key objectives 
for 2013 and we will report on progress against these in the 
2013 Annual Report. Following the Board evaluation in 2011, 
the Board set itself several objectives for 2012. These are 
summarised below with an evaluation of performance  
against each:
Performance evaluations of each of the Executive Directors also 
took place against achievement of speciﬁc personal objectives, 
the result of which can be found in the Remuneration Report  
in respect of the outcome on their 2012 annual bonus.
Overview of the Nominations Committee 
The Board has appointed a dedicated committee to oversee  
the composition of the Board, succession and the process  
for appointments. The Nominations Committee, that is chaired 
by myself (and Michael Harper before me), has agreed terms  
of reference that are available on the Company’s website.  
The Committee met twice during 2012 and considered the 
following matters: 
Chairman Members
Michael Harper (until 1 June 2012)
John McDonough (from 1 June 2012)
Simon Beresford-Wylie
Stephen Bird
Carolyn Fairbairn  
(from 1 February 2012)
John Hughes 
John McDonough  
(from 15 March until 1 June 2012)
Nigel Moore
Maria Richter
Duties Activities completed in 2012
•  Reviews and evaluates the structure, 
size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity) of the Board
•  Considers succession planning 
for directors and other senior 
executives
•  Identiﬁes and nominates to the 
Board candidates for Board 
vacancies
•  Prepares descriptions of roles  
and capabilities required for  
Board appointments
•  Reviews the executive and non-
executive leadership needs of  
the Company
•  Reviews time commitment of  
Non-Executive Directors
•  Ensures that Non-Executive 
Directors receive a formal  
letter of appointment
•  Considered Board and senior 
executive succession planning 
•  Used the services of an external 
search consultancy to facilitate 
the search for a new Chairman
•  Recommended the appointment 
of John McDonough as a  
Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman elect
•  Reported to the Board after  
each meeting
•  Reviewed plans for the  
executive level talent 
management programme
2012 Board Objectives Progress during 2012
Review progress on three 
market strategy
Identiﬁed key areas concerning strategy; 
detailed discussion of these points and the 
three year business plan for the Group, the 
divisions and each business unit; approved 
the acquisition of Camera Corps and the 
disposal of the Staging business in line  
with strategy
Manufacturing strategy 
review
Received update from Group Finance 
Director on progress and Group-wide 
initiatives undertaken
Board succession Appointed Carolyn Fairbairn as an 
independent Non-Executive Director in 
February 2012; appointed John McDonough 
as an independent Non-Executive Director 
in March 2012 and as Chairman on 1 June 
2012 in succession to Michael Harper; 
feedback from Board evaluation supports 
successful induction and integration of  
both appointments
Monitor executive director 
and senior executive 
remuneration following 
implementation of revised 
remuneration structure
Shareholder approval of Remuneration 
Report at 2012 AGM; received updates  
from Remuneration Committee on emerging 
best practice
Maintain close investor 
relations links
Regular monitoring of shareholder register 
and major movements; regular meetings 
between Executive Directors and major 
shareholders
Maintain state of the art 
governance standards
Online bribery training extended to more 
employees and translated into three 
languages; 2011 Annual Report complied 
with UK Corporate Governance Code
Measurement of Board 
effectiveness using 
performance indicators
Quarterly monitoring of the Company’s  
Total Shareholder Return
Implement new long-term 
credit facility
£100 million ﬁve year revolving credit  
facility agreed
Review strategic risks for 
the Group and ensure 
appropriate mitigation  
in place
Reviewed detailed risk assessment and 
mitigation process and disclosed principal 
risks in Annual Report 2011
Corporate Governance
56 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Nominations Committee uses the support of external 
executive search consultancies where necessary to facilitate 
searches for new Directors. A clear brief on the role, skills and 
personal attributes required is prepared, taking into account 
diversity on the Board, and a search process is conducted 
by the consultancy. Each member of the Board has the 
opportunity to meet with preferred candidates to ensure that 
the correct person with the right skills and dynamic ﬁt with  
the Board is appointed whether the role be executive or non-
executive in nature. The process is normally led by myself as 
Chairman of the Committee. However, during 2012 the search 
for the role of Chairman was led by Nigel Moore, the Senior 
Independent Director, with the support of the Group Chief 
Executive. Subject to the outcome of each search, a formal 
recommendation on an appointment is made to the full  
Board for approval. 
Going forward I am very mindful of the need to have the right 
balance on the Board with the necessary skills and diversity to 
develop and deliver on strategy, monitor on-going performance 
and to discharge good corporate governance. Future Board 
changes will take this into consideration. 
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Simon Beresford-
Wylie and comprises exclusively independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the former 
Group HR Director, Group Development Director and the 
Group Company Secretary have all been invited to meetings 
throughout 2012. The Committee met four times in 2012.
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the 
setting of a remuneration framework or broad policy for the 
Company’s Group Chief Executive, the Executive Directors,  
the Group Company Secretary and such other members  
of the executive management as it is designated to consider.  
The Committee’s full Terms of Reference can be found  
on our website.
An overview of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the 
following table. The Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 December 2012 on pages 31 to 43 gives full details on 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration.
Chairman Members
Simon Beresford-Wylie Carolyn Fairbairn  
(from 1 February 2012)
John Hughes 
John McDonough  
(from 15 March to 1 June 2012) 
Nigel Moore
Maria Richter
Duties Activities completed in 2012
•  Determining and agreeing with 
the Board the broad framework or 
policies for Board and executive 
level remuneration
•  Ensuring executive management 
are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage  
enhanced performance
•  Reviewing performance-related 
pay schemes and ensuring their 
structure encourages long-term 
growth for the Company
•  Reviewing ongoing 
appropriateness of  
remuneration policy
•  Reviewing the design of all  
share incentive plans
•  Reviewing pension arrangements 
for executive management
•  Reviewing remuneration trends 
and major changes in employee 
beneﬁts across the Group
•  Ensuring full disclosure is made 
regarding remuneration in the 
Company’s Annual Report
•  Ensuring advice is obtained  
from appropriate sources 
•  Agreeing objectives and reviewing 
performance against each one
•  2011 Annual Bonus  
Plan outcome
•  2012 and 2013 Annual Bonus 
Plan structure including  
ﬁnancial targets
•  Executive Directors’ personal 
objectives and long-term 
incentive awards for 2012
•  Senior executive 2012 long-term 
incentive awards and vesting 
levels for 2009 awards
•  Approved 2011  
Remuneration Report
•  Reviewed BIS consultation 
on Remuneration Reporting 
Regulations and impact on the 
2012 Remuneration Report
•  Reviewed 2012 objectives  
and agreed 2013 objectives
Overview of the Remuneration Committee
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
57 The Remuneration Committee set itself several objectives for 
2012, the detail and progress against which is detailed below:
The Remuneration Committee has set itself objectives for  
2013 and will report on progress against these in the 2013 
Annual Report.
Accountability
Internal control and risk management  
The Board and Audit Committee are responsible for the 
Group’s system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ 
investment and the Company’s assets. As part of its 
responsibility, the Board regularly, and at least annually, reviews 
the effectiveness of its internal controls. There are systems 
and procedures in place for internal controls that are designed 
to provide reasonable control over the activities of the Group 
and to enable the Board to fulﬁll its legal responsibility for the 
keeping of proper accounting records, safeguarding the assets 
of the Group and detecting fraud and other irregularities. The 
approach taken is designed to provide reasonable assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, although it is recognised 
that as with any successful company, business and commercial 
risks must be taken and enterprise, initiative and the motivation 
of employees must not be unduly stiﬂed. It is not our intention  
to avoid all commercial risks and commercial judgements will  
be made in the course of the management of the business.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establishing 
the system of internal controls. The application and process 
followed by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls during the year were as follows:
•  Each business unit is charged with the ongoing responsibility 
for identifying risks facing each of the businesses and for 
putting in place procedures to monitor and manage risks. 
•  This system has been in place for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
•  The responsibilities of the senior management at each 
business unit to manage risks within their businesses are 
periodically reinforced by the Operations Executive. 
•  Major Strategic, Operational, Financial, Regulatory & 
Compliance and Reputational risks are formally assessed 
during the annual long-term business planning process around 
mid-year. These plans and the attendant risks to the Group 
are reviewed and considered by the Board. 
•  Large capital projects, product development projects and all 
acquisitions and disposals require advance Board approval. 
•  The process by which the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of internal controls has been agreed by the Board and is 
documented. This involves regular reviews by the Board 
of the major business risks of the Group, together with the 
controls in place to manage those risks. In addition, each 
year businesses conduct a self-assessment of their internal 
controls. The results of these assessments are reviewed by 
the Group Risk Assurance Manager who provides a report 
to the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. The Board is made aware of any signiﬁcant 
matters arising from the self assessments. The risk and  
control identiﬁcation and certiﬁcation process is monitored  
and periodically reviewed by Group ﬁnancial management. 
•  A centralised database of risks facing the Group, as well as 
each individual business, and an evaluation of the impact and 
likelihood of those risks is maintained and updated regularly  
by the Group Risk Assurance Manager.
•  The Board has established a control framework within which 
the Group operates. This contains the following key elements: 
-  organisational structure with clearly deﬁned lines of 
responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting 
requirements; 
-  deﬁned expenditure authorisation levels; 
-  operational review process covering all aspects of each 
business conducted by Group executive management on  
a regular basis throughout the year; 
-  strategic planning process identifying key actions and 
initiatives to deliver the Group’s long-term strategic 
development; and
2012 Remuneration 
Committee Objectives
Progress during 2012
Ensure remuneration policies 
and practices reward fairly 
and responsibly with clear 
link to strategic objectives, 
corporate and individual 
performance
Annual bonus linked to stretching ﬁnancial 
performance; vesting of long-term incentives 
tied to TSR and EPS* over three year 
performance period; Executive Directors 
required to build stake in the Company of 
at least one times gross salary; claw-back 
provisions across all bonus and long-term 
incentives
Implement revised 
remuneration structure
Re-balanced executive remuneration structure 
following consultation with major shareholders 
(see Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 
38 for details of the re-balancing)
Ensure clarity around annual 
target setting, particularly 
around the budget process 
and link to strategy
Targets for the 2012 Annual Bonus 
Plan reviewed during the year to ensure 
continued appropriateness. Targets for the 
2013 Annual Bonus Plan revised and agreed 
Ensure best practice annual 
Remuneration Report 
and that approved by 
shareholders at the AGM
2011 Remuneration Report fully compliant 
with all applicable regulations and received 
over 98% of the proxy votes for the 
resolution at the 2012 AGM. Reviewed BIS 
consultation document on Remuneration 
Reporting Regulations
Closely monitor performance 
of newly appointed 
remuneration advisors
Provided well-run support on the  
re-balance of executive remuneration, 
performance measurement for the long-term 
incentive plans, tax treatment and the BIS 
Remuneration Reporting Regulations
Corporate Governance
*  In 2012 and 2011 before charges associated with acquired businesses; proﬁt before tax and adjusted  
earnings per share are also before disposal of business. In 2010 and 2009 before signiﬁcant items.
58 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
-  comprehensive system of ﬁnancial reporting including 
monthly reporting, quarterly forecasting and an annual 
budget process. The Board approves the overall Group 
budget, forecasts and strategic plans. Monthly actual 
results are reported against prior year, budget and latest 
forecasts. These forecasts are revised where necessary 
but formally at least once every quarter. Any signiﬁcant 
changes and adverse variances are reviewed by the Group 
Chief Executive and Operations Executive and remedial 
action is taken where appropriate. Group tax and treasury 
functions are co-ordinated centrally. There is regular cash 
and treasury reporting to Group ﬁnancial management and 
monthly reporting to the Board on the Group’s tax and 
treasury position. 
The Group’s internal audit function, led by the Group Risk 
Assurance Manager, conducted a number of internal audits 
and additional assurance reviews during 2012, the details of 
which were presented to the Audit Committee. The audits 
included reviews of the appropriateness and effectiveness of 
controls within the Group including: purchasing and payments, 
sales and cash collection, inventory management, accounting 
and reporting, IT processes, HR procedures and payroll.  
An internal audit plan for 2013 has been prepared and  
agreed with the Audit Committee.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the  
Code during the year and up to the date of approval of  
the Annual Report and Accounts and that it accords with 
Turnbull guidance in respect of internal controls.
Relations with Shareholders
Maintaining regular contact with our shareholders remains  
an important part of our activities. On becoming Chairman  
I wrote to our major shareholders and have subsequently  
met several of them. We aim to ensure that our business, 
strategy and remuneration policies are understood and  
that any concerns are addressed in a constructive way. 
Establishing and maintaining reliable lines of communication  
is a key part of good corporate governance. 
I look forward to meeting our shareholders at the 2013 
AGM. This offers an opportunity for you to meet with our 
Directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group. 
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to 
ask questions about the business. I conﬁrm that all Board 
members are scheduled to attend the forthcoming AGM, 
including each of the Committee Chairmen. Details of the  
AGM are included in the Notice of Meeting that accompanies 
this Annual Report.
At general meetings of shareholders, voting on resolutions is  
in the ﬁrst instance on a show of hands of those shareholders 
and proxies attending in person. The level of proxy votes 
received, together with the numbers of votes in favour, 
against and withheld, is announced after each resolution 
has been dealt with on a show of hands. At the 2012 AGM 
over 70 per cent of our shares were voted by way of proxies 
submitted. Voting by poll may take place should shareholders 
request and the necessary procedures are complied with 
in accordance with the Articles of Association. Separate 
resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue upon  
which shareholders are asked to vote. 
We publish an Annual Report each year usually in March 
following the end of the ﬁnancial year on 31 December. T o allow 
shareholders to review the Annual Report in advance of the 
Annual General Meeting and create an informed view of the 
Company, we comply with the requirement set out in the 
Code in respect of shareholder meetings to send the notice of 
AGM and related papers at least 20 working days before the 
meeting and we will continue to comply with this requirement.
The Board communicates with its shareholders via a 
combination of public announcements through the London 
Stock Exchange, analyst brieﬁngs, roadshows and press 
interviews at the time of the announcements of the half-year 
and full-year results and, when appropriate, at other times in 
the year. The Executive Directors, the Chairman, the Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee also meet with investors from time to time to 
discuss relevant matters. 
Regular updates from the Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director at Board meetings keep the Board advised 
of the views of major shareholders. We also receive monthly 
reports on market and investor sentiment along with a full 
shareholder analysis.
Copies of public announcements and ﬁnancial results are 
published on the Company’s website, www.vitecgroup.com, 
along with a number of other investor relations tools, including 
information on how to invest in the Company’s shares,  
a dividend chart, share prices and presentation materials  
used for key shareholder presentations. 
Going Concern
The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and consider  
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly,  
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
John McDonough CBE
Chairman
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Investor Relations 
www.vitecgroup.com/investors
59 The Audit Committee is responsible  
for ensuring that the ﬁnancial integrity  
of the Group is effective, through  
the regular review of its ﬁnancial 
performance. It is also responsible  
for ensuring that the Group has 
appropriate risk management  
processes and internal controls,  
and that audit processes are robust.  
I explain in more detail our activities  
in my report.
The Audit Committee comprises ﬁve Non-Executive Directors,  
all of whom are considered independent. During 2012 the 
following were members:
Nigel Moore – Chairman
Simon Beresford-Wylie
Carolyn Fairbairn (from 1 February 2012) 
John Hughes 
John McDonough (from 15 March to 1 June 2012)
Maria Richter
The Audit Committee provides effective governance over 
external ﬁnancial reporting, risk management and internal 
controls and reports its ﬁndings and recommendations to the 
Board. In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
I am pleased to report on the operations of the Committee 
during 2012, with emphasis on the speciﬁc matters we have 
considered and compliance with the Code and associated 
Guidance on Audit Committees. We will work towards 
compliance with the new Code that applies to ﬁnancial years 
beginning on or after 1 October 2012 and will report on  
progress for the Audit Committee in the 2013 Annual Report. 
I have been Chairman of the Committee since March 2004,  
and have the necessary recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience 
as required by the Code having formerly been a London-based 
partner of Ernst & Young LLP , where I was engagement partner 
for a number of signiﬁcant client companies with speciﬁc 
responsibilities for their audits. Also, during the last ten years I 
have been Chairman of the Audit Committee of several public 
limited companies and attended many training sessions and 
updates presented by the major accounting ﬁrms. Biographies 
of the Committee members are set out on pages 26 and 27, 
and between them have a wide skill set covering ﬁnancial, 
commercial and operational matters. 
The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year and I work 
closely with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk Assurance 
Manager and Group Company Secretary to ensure that the 
Committee is provided with the necessary information it requires 
to discharge its duties. We operate with a rolling agenda 
programme, taking into account our Terms of Reference (which 
can be found on the Group’s website), the Group’s annual 
reporting requirements and any other matters which arise on an 
ad-hoc basis. I aim to maintain a balance between the review of 
ﬁnancial reporting and the risk assurance process as both merit 
signiﬁcant consideration. Full detail of the work we completed 
during 2012 is set out in the table on the following page.
We assessed the effectiveness of the annual audit through 
separate discussions at the Audit Committee with Executive 
Directors, senior executives and representatives of KPMG. We 
concluded that KPMG had completed the audit effectively and in 
accordance with required auditing standards. We also took into 
Audit Committee online 
www.vitecgroup.com/audit_committee
Report from Nigel Moore,  
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate Governance
60 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
account publications made by the Financial Reporting Council, 
including the Annual Report as published by the Audit Quality 
Review team and the Audit Inspection Unit’s Public Report on 
the inspection of KPMG, which provided the Committee with 
comfort that an external and independent review of the quality 
of KPMG’s overall audit work had taken place. Given this, we 
recommend the re-appointment of KPMG at the 2013 AGM  
for the forthcoming year.
Following a review of the process around the annual audit and 
the content of the ﬁnancial statements, the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board at its meeting on 25 February 
2013 that the 2012 ﬁnancial statements were true and fair. 
I invite the audit partner from the Company’s external auditors, 
KPMG, to attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis 
and during 2012 they attended all but one meeting; in each case 
for part of the meeting. The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and Group Risk Assurance Manager 
attend meetings by invitation and other members of the senior 
management team attend as required. At two of the meetings 
the Executive Directors and senior executives were not present 
for part of the meeting so that members of the Committee  
could meet with the external auditors in private. I will continue  
to encourage the practice of the Committee meeting in private 
with the external auditors in the future.
KPMG has acted as the Company’s external auditor since  
19 July 1995 and we comply with the requirement to rotate the 
audit partner every ﬁve years. We reviewed in detail external 
audit arrangements in 2010 and as a result Robert Brent of 
KPMG was appointed as audit partner for the audit of the 
2011 results. His term of appointment is currently expected to 
end in 2016. In accordance with the new Code it is likely that 
we will tender the audit process in 2016 or earlier if KPMG’s 
performance falls short of the Audit Committee’s expectations. 
We have a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-
audit services that has been in place for a number of years. The 
use of the external auditors is determined by their demonstrable 
competence and competitive pricing, and monetary thresholds 
for the approval of non-audit work by KPMG have been set by  
the Committee. The policy is divided into three parts:
•  Work where use of the external auditors is deemed 
appropriate: This type of work includes accounting advice 
in relation to acquisitions and divestments, corporate 
governance and risk management advice, deﬁned audit  
related work and regulatory reporting. 
•  Work requiring Audit Committee clearance or reﬁnement of 
the Vitec Group policy: This type of work includes services 
as reporting accountants, compliance services (including 
fraud and money laundering), transaction work (mergers, 
acquisitions and divestments), valuation and actuarial 
services, fairness opinions and contribution reports. 
•  Work from which the external auditors are excluded:  
This includes internal accounting or other internal ﬁnancial 
services, design development or implementation of  
ﬁnancial information or internal controls systems, internal  
audit services or their outsourcing, forensic accounting 
services, executive or management roles and functions,  
IT consultancy, litigation support services and other  
ﬁnancial services such as broker, ﬁnancial adviser  
or investment banking services. 
I conﬁrm that during 2012 the policy has been followed.  
During 2012, £0.1 million was paid to KPMG in respect of  
non-audit work compared to an audit fee of £0.4 million. 
To ensure that we continue to be an effective Committee,  
we measured our performance during the year through the use 
of objectives and I can conﬁrm that we successfully achieved 
all of these by the year end. The details of our objectives and 
the progress we made is set out below. Our performance 
was further assessed through the internally facilitated Board 
performance evaluation, information on which has been 
provided earlier in this report. The Audit Committee was 
deemed to be working effectively and no major suggestions  
for improvement were noted. I will report to you next year  
on our achievement against our 2013 objectives.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2012 Audit Committee 
Objectives
Progress during 2012
Review assurance process to 
ensure appropriate coverage
Assurance mapping process reviewed 
and approved
Review revised risk  
management process
Review of key risks and mitigation 
processes completed from both  
a “top-down” and “bottom-up” 
perspective. Key risks updated and 
included in Annual Reports 2011  
and 2012
Review annual ﬁnancial 
statements in line with 
Financial Reporting Council’s 
recommendations on  
“Cutting Clutter”
Reviewed proposal, made suggestions 
and agreed ﬁnal version of Annual 
Report before publication
Ensure effective working 
relationship between internal and 
external audit
Reviewed areas where teams have 
developed approaches to working 
together more efﬁciently
 Review fraud and whistleblowing 
process, cases reported and 
actions taken
Processes working effectively. All 
whistleblowing cases reported during 
2012, and the Committee satisﬁed  
that successful solutions to all
Audit Committee Speciﬁc Objectives 
61 Requirements Activities completed in 2012
Group Accounts
•  Monitoring the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the Group, including 
its annual and half-yearly reports, results announcements and any other 
formal announcement relating to its ﬁnancial performance
• Conﬁrming to the Board that the annual ﬁnancial statements are true and fair
•  Reviewed and recommended to the Board that the ﬁnancial results and 
accounting disclosures are true and fair in connection with the full-year 
results for the year ended 31 December 2011 and the half-year results  
for the period ended 30 June 2012
Internal control and risk management
•  Keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal ﬁnancial controls and internal control and risk management systems
•  Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit 
function and overseeing its work
•  Reviewing the statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning 
internal controls and risk management
•  Monitored ongoing performance of internal controls for the Group through 
the Risk Assurance Report provided by the Group Risk Assurance Manager, 
including a revised risk register for the Group to show risks deﬁned from both 
a “top-down” and “bottom-up” analysis
•  Monitored the work of the internal audit function through the review of the 
internal audit plan for 2012
•  Conﬁrmed that the statement on internal controls in the Annual Report for  
the year ended 31 December 2011 was accurate
Prevention of bribery
•  Reviewing the Company’s systems and controls for the prevention of 
bribery and receiving reports on non-compliance
•  Reviewed that the Company has adequate procedures for the prevention 
of bribery, including key customer acceptance of the Code of Business 
Conduct, reviewing commissions paid to agents and third party suppliers 
and expanding training
Performance of and relationship with external auditors
•  Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including their 
remuneration and fees for non-audit services, terms of their engagement, 
assessing annually their independence and objectivity, and their compliance 
with ethical and professional standards taking into account relevant UK 
professional and regulatory requirements 
•  Considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to 
the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Company’s external 
auditors
•  Reviewing the audit plan, the resulting ﬁndings and the effectiveness  
of the audit
•  Ensuring the external audit is co-ordinated with the activities of the internal 
audit arrangements
•  Considered the terms of engagement, scope and associated fee for the audit 
in connection with the year-end audit for 31 December 2012 
•  Conﬁrmed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors taking 
into account compliance with ethical and professional standards
•  Considered the performance of the external auditors and recommended  
to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditors
•  Met with the external auditors without the executive management present  
to discuss any issues arising from the audit
•  Reviewed the auditors’ report to the Committee and the effectiveness  
of the audit
•  Reviewed the work of the external auditors alongside that of the  
internal auditor
Whistleblowing
•  Reviewing the Company’s whistleblowing arrangements •  Audit Committee Chairman provided with full details of each reported  
case and highlights presented to Audit Committee
Committee objectives
•  Agreeing objectives and reviewing performance against each one •  Reviewed 2012 objectives and agreed objectives for 2013
Overview of the Audit Committee
Nigel Moore
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Corporate Governance
62 The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         Board       Audit     Remuneration        Nominations
Regular Ad hoc Regular Ad hoc Regular Ad hoc Regular Ad hoc
Number of meetings 6 2 3 1 4 - 1 1
Current Directors
John McDonough (from 15 March 2012) 4/4 1/1 - - - - 1 0/0
Simon Beresford-Wylie 5* 1* 2* 1 4 - 1 1
Stephen Bird 6 2 - - - - 1 1
Paul Hayes 6 2 - - - - - -
John Hughes 4** 2 1** 1 3* - 1 1
Nigel Moore 6 2 3 1 4 - 1 1
Maria Richter 6 2 3 1 4 - 1 0***
Carolyn Fairbairn 5**** 2 2**** 1 4 - 1 1
Former directors who served  
during 2012
Michael Harper (until 1 June 2012) 2/2 2/2 - - - - - 1
*   Simon-Beresford Wylie did not attend the scheduled Board and Audit Committee meetings in June 2012 as these were re-scheduled at short notice 
and conﬂicted with other commitments. He did not attend the ad-hoc Board meeting in April 2012 due to a conﬂict that arose at short notice.
**   John Hughes did not attend the Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings held in February 2012 due to ill-health.  
He did not attend the scheduled Board and Audit Committee meetings in June 2012 as these were re-scheduled at short notice and conﬂicted  
with other commitments. 
***   Maria Richter did not attend the ad-hoc meeting of the Nominations Committee in March 2012 due to short notice and a conﬂict with  
other commitments.
****   Carolyn Fairbairn did not attend the scheduled Board and Audit Committee meetings in June 2012 as these were re-scheduled at short notice  
and conﬂicted with other commitments.
Attendance table for Governance Report 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
63 We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of The Vitec Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. The ﬁnancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
group ﬁnancial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. 
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements is 
applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company's members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company's members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company's members, as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and for being 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility  
is to audit, and express an opinion on, the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board's (APB's) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements  
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements 
In our opinion:
•  The ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group's and of the parent company's affairs as at  
31 December 2012 and of the Group's proﬁt for the year  
then ended;
•  The Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  The parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted  
Accounting Practice;
•  The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  The part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and
•  The information given in the Directors' Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
•  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• The parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of  
the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  Certain disclosures of directors' remuneration speciﬁed  
by law are not made; or
•  We have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  The Directors' statement, set out on page 59, in relation  
to going concern;
• The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page  
59 relating to the Company's compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
speciﬁed for our review; and
•  Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the  
Board on directors' remuneration.
Robert Brent (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
London
27 February 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to  
the members of The Vitec Group plc
64 The Vitec Group plc DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 65
Table of contents
Primary Statements ................................................................ 66
    Consolidated Income Statement ............................. 66
    Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ... 67
    Consolidated Balance Sheet ................................... 68
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity ......... 69
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows ................... 70
Section 1 – Basis of preparation ........................................... 71
Section 2 – Results for the year ............................................ 73
    2.1 Proﬁt before tax ................................................ 73
    2.2 Charges associated with acquired businesses .. 76
    2.3 Net ﬁnance expense ......................................... 76
    2.4 Tax .................................................................... 77
    2.5 Earnings per share ............................................ 80
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities ........................ 81
    3.1 Intangible assets ............................................... 81
    3.2 Property, plant and equipment .......................... 84
    3.3 Working capital ................................................. 86
    3.4 Acquisitions ...................................................... 88
    3.5 Disposals .......................................................... 90
    3.6 Provisions ......................................................... 91
Section 4 – Capital structure ................................................. 92
    4.1 Net debt ........................................................... 92
    4.2 Financial instruments......................................... 93
    4.3 Share capital and reserves ................................ 98
Section 5 – Other supporting notes ..................................... 99
    5.1 Employees ........................................................ 99
    5.2 Pensions ......................................................... 100
    5.3 Share-based payments ................................... 104
    5.4 Leases ............................................................ 106
    5.5 Related party transactions............................... 107
    5.6 Principal Group investments ............................ 108
    5.7 Subsequent events ......................................... 108
The Vitec Group plc Company ﬁnancial statements ........ 109
    Company Balance Sheet ....................................... 109
    Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds . 110
    Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements .......... 111
Five year ﬁnancial summary ........................................... 116
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar ......... 117
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in  
producing these notes together with any key judgements  
and estimates used. Text boxes provide an introduction  
to each section.
The notes are grouped under the following sections:
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 The Vitec Group plc
         2012 2011 
        Notes £m £m
Revenue         2.1 345.3 351.0
Cost of sales           (198.1) (204.9)
Gross profit          147.2 146.1
Operating expenses          2.1 / 2.2 (121.6) (120.8)
Operating profit         2.1 25.6 25.3
 Comprising
  - Operating profit before charges associated with acquired businesses       39.3 34.5
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses         2.2 (13.7) (9.2)
           25.6 25.3
Finance income         2.3 2.5 3.1
Finance costs         2.3 (5.6) (4.6)
Disposal of business         3.5 (6.4) -
Profit before tax          16.1 23.8
 Comprising
  - Profit before tax, excluding charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business    36.2 33.0
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses         (13.7) (9.2)
  - Disposal of business          (6.4) -
           16.1 23.8
Taxation         2.4 (10.2) (8.8)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent        5.9 15.0
Earnings per share         2.5
Basic earnings per share          13.6p 34.7p
Diluted earnings per share          13.4p 33.9p
Average exchange rates
Euro          1.23 1.15
US$          1.58 1.60
Consolidated Income Statement  
 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 67
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income  
 For the year ended 31 December 2012
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Profit for the year         5.9 15.0
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial (loss)/gain on pension obligations, net of tax        (3.8) 0.4
Foreign exchange gain recycled to the Income Statement on disposal of business       (2.0)  - 
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries        (8.2)  0.1
Net gain/(loss) on designated effective net investment hedges        2.4 (0.2)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges, net of tax      0.3 0.5
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges       2.1 (1.3) 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year attributable to owners of the parent     (3.3) 14.5 68 The Vitec Group plc
         2012 2011 
        Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets         3.1  68.2  75.0
Property, plant and equipment         3.2  48.6  50.1
Trade and other receivables          3.3  0.5  0.4
Derivative financial instruments          4.2  0.6  -
Deferred tax assets          2.4  14.4  15.8
            132.3  141.3
Current assets    
Inventories          3.3  59.5  66.4
Trade and other receivables          3.3  50.1  50.7
Derivative financial instruments          4.2  1.8  0.3
Current tax assets          2.4  1.0  0.8
Cash and cash equivalents          4.1  10.0  6.9
            122.4  125.1
Total assets           254.7  266.4
Liabilities    
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts          4.1  0.7  0.7
Trade and other payables          3.3  44.4  58.3
Derivative financial instruments          4.2  0.1  1.6
Current tax liabilities          2.4  6.6  7.4
Provisions          3.6  2.5  4.1
            54.3  72.1
Non-current liabilities    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings          4.1  73.0  56.6
Other payables          3.3  1.0  1.2
Post-employment obligations         5.2  9.4  4.9
Provisions          3.6  1.2  1.6
Deferred tax liabilities          2.4  1.2  0.7
            85.8  65.0
Total liabilities           140.1  137.1
Net assets           114.6  129.3
Equity    
Share capital           8.8  8.7
Share premium           10.4  9.8
Translation reserve           (2.0)  5.8
Capital redemption reserve           1.6  1.6
Cash flow hedging reserve           1.5 (0.9)
Retained earnings           94.3  104.3
Total equity          4.3  114.6  129.3
Balance Sheet exchange rates    
Euro          1.23 1.20
US$          1.63 1.55
Approved by the Board on 27 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by:    
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2012 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 69
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
       Capital Cash flow   
    Share Share Translation redemption hedging Retained Total 
    capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2012    8.7 9.8 5.8 1.6 (0.9) 104.3 129.3
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 5.9 5.9
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial loss on pension obligations, net of tax   - - - - - (3.8) (3.8)
Foreign exchange gain recycled to the Income Statement  
on disposal of business     -  - (2.0)  -  - - (2.0)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries   -  - (8.2)  -  - - (8.2)
Net gain on designated effective net investment hedges   - - 2.4 - - - 2.4
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges,  
net of tax    - - - - 0.3 - 0.3
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  - - - - 2.1 - 2.1
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (9.1) (9.1)
Own shares purchased     - - - - - (4.8) (4.8)
Share-based payment charge    - - - - - 1.8 1.8
New shares issued    0.1 0.6 - - - - 0.7
Balance at 31 December 2012     8.8 10.4 (2.0) 1.6 1.5 94.3 114.6
        
Balance at 1 January 2011    8.6 9.6 5.9 1.6 (0.1) 98.7 124.3
Total comprehensive income for the year        
Profit for the year    - - - - - 15.0 15.0
Other comprehensive income        
Actuarial gain on pension obligations, net of tax   - - - - - 0.4 0.4
Currency translation differences on foreign currency subsidiaries  - - 0.1 - - - 0.1
Net loss on designated effective net investment hedges   - - (0.2) - - - (0.2)
Amounts released to Income Statement in relation to cash flow hedges,  
net of tax    - - - - 0.5 - 0.5
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges  - - - - (1.3) - (1.3)
Contributions by and distributions to owners        
Dividends paid    - - - - - (8.2) (8.2)
Own shares purchased    - - - - - (2.8) (2.8)
Share-based payment charge    - - - - - 1.2 1.2
New shares issued    0.1 0.2 - - - - 0.3
Balance at 31 December 2011    8.7 9.8 5.8 1.6 (0.9) 104.3 129.3 70 The Vitec Group plc
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 For the year ended 31 December 2012
         2012 2011 
        Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year         5.9 15.0
Adjustments for:    
  Taxation         10.2 8.8
  Depreciation         12.6 13.2
  Amortisation of intangible assets         5.2 4.9
  Impairment of goodwill         8.8 5.2
  Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software      (0.3) (2.6)
  Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments        (0.2) (0.1)
  Share-based payment charge         1.8 1.2
  Contingent consideration on previous acquisitions        1.0 -
  Disposal of business         6.4 -
  Financial income         (2.5) (3.1)
  Financial expense         5.6 4.6
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions       54.5 47.1
Decrease/(increase) in inventories         1.3 (8.4)
Decrease /(increase) in receivables         (4.4) (3.2)
(Decrease)/increase in payables         (11.8)  6.0
(Decrease)/increase in provisions         (1.2) (2.4)
Cash generated from operating activities         38.4  39.1
Interest paid         (3.1) (1.8)
Tax paid         (10.8) (11.1)
Net cash from operating activities         24.5 26.2
Cash flows from investing activities    
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and software       1.8 6.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment         (14.2) (13.7)
Capitalisation of software and development costs        (1.3) (2.4)
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       3.4 (10.6) (27.9)
Disposal of business        3.5 (2.1) -
Net cash used in investing activities         (26.4) (37.6)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from the issue of shares         0.7 0.3
Own shares purchased         (4.8) (2.8)
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings        18.8 21.6
Dividends paid         (9.1) (8.2)
Net cash used in financing activities         5.6 10.9
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents       4.1 3.7 (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January         6.2 6.7
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held        (0.6) -
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December        9.3 6.2 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 71
Section 1 – Basis of preparation
This section lays out the Group’s accounting policies that 
relate to the ﬁnancial statements as a whole. Where an 
accounting policy is speciﬁc to one note, the policy is 
described in the note to which it relates. 
The Vitec Group plc (the “Company”) is a company domiciled in 
the United Kingdom. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of 
the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to 
as the “Group”).
As required by EU law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) the Group 
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
EU (“IFRS”), and have been approved by the Directors.
The ﬁnancial statements are principally prepared on the basis of 
historical cost. Areas where other bases are applied are identiﬁed 
in the accounting policy outlined in the relevant note.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP .
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Directors’ Report. The ﬁnancial position of the 
Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review. In addition, note 4.2 “Financial 
Instruments” includes the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives, details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging 
activities, its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources, including 
undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year of £83.2 million 
(see note 4.2 “Financial Instruments”). The Directors believe that 
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled 
by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to 
govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity in order to 
obtain beneﬁts from its activities. The results of subsidiaries sold  
or acquired during the year are included in the accounts up to,  
or from, the date that control exists.
Foreign Currencies
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in Sterling 
with the reporting currency of the Group’s subsidiaries generally 
being that of the local country.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange 
rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated 
at the year-end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in 
the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year-end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such 
differences are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost 
are translated at the exchange rate on the day of the transaction, 
unless they are stated at fair value in which case they are 
translated at the exchange rate of the day the fair value was 
determined.
The assets and liabilities of overseas companies, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated at the year-end exchange rate.
The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated 
at the weighted average exchange rate for the year. Where 
differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in the 
translation reserve within Equity and Other comprehensive income. 
The cash ﬂows of these companies are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rate for the year. 
In the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, currency translation  
gains and losses on long-term inter-company loans that form  
part of the net investment in the subsidaries are recognised 
directly in the translational reserve within Equity and Other 
comprehensive income. 
In respect of all overseas companies, only those translation 
differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition  
to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.  
On disposal of such a company, the related translation reserve  
is released to the Income Statement as part of the gain or loss  
on disposal. 72 The Vitec Group plc
Section 1 – Basis of preparation
 
Critical accounting judgements and estimates
The following provides information on those policies that the 
Directors consider critical because of the level of judgement and 
estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding 
future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The 
Directors review the judgements and estimates on an ongoing 
basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the 
period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods 
affected. The Directors believe that the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements reﬂect appropriate judgements and estimates and 
provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and 
ﬁnancial position.
Pension beneﬁts
The actuarial valuations associated with the pension schemes 
involve making assumptions about discount rates, expected 
rates of return on assets, future salary increases, future pension 
increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are reviewed at 
each reporting date. Further details about the assumptions  
used are set out in note 5.2 “Pensions”.
Impairment testing
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment 
are based on discounted cash ﬂows and assumptions (including 
discount rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently 
subjective. Details about the assumptions used are set out in  
note 3.1 “Intangible assets”.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method, 
based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and 
liabilities are measured at fair value and the purchase price is 
allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.  
IFRS 3 requires the identiﬁcation of acquired intangible assets as 
part of a business combination. The methods used to value such 
intangible assets require the use of estimates including forecast 
performance. Accordingly determining the fair values of assets 
and liabilities acquired involves the use of signiﬁcant estimates 
and assumptions (including discount rates, asset lives and 
recoverability). Details concerning the acquisition made in  
the year are set out in note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. 
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in 
determining the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets 
and liabilities recognised in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Tax beneﬁts are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
sufﬁcient taxable income will be available in the future against 
which temporary differences and unused tax losses can be 
utilised.  Details on the tax charge and assets and liabilities 
recorded are set out in note 2.4 “Tax”.
Application of new or amended EU endorsed  
accounting standards
A number of amendments to published standards and 
interpretations are effective for the Group for the year ended  
31 December 2012. The Group has reviewed the effect of  
these amendments and interpretations, and has concluded  
that they have no material impact on these consolidated  
ﬁnancial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended  
31 December 2012, and have not been adopted early in preparing 
these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Those which may be 
relevant to the Group are set out below.
IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts (2011)
IAS 19 (2011) changes the deﬁnition of short-term and other 
long-term employee beneﬁts to clarify the distinction between the 
two. For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, removal of the accounting policy 
choice for recognition of actuarial gains and losses is not expected 
to have any impact on the Group. The Group has considered the 
impact of the change in measurement principles on the deﬁned 
beneﬁt liability at 31 December 2012 and concluded that it is not 
material; this will continue to be monitored during 2013. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 73
This section focuses on the proﬁtability of the Group. On the following pages you will ﬁnd disclosures relating  
to the following:  
2.1 Proﬁt before tax (including segmental information)   
2.2  Charges associated with acquired businesses   
2.3 Net ﬁnance expense   
2.4 Tax   
2.5 Earnings per share
2.1 Proﬁt before tax (including segmental information)
This shows the analysis of the Group’s proﬁt before tax by reference to its three Divisions. Further segmental information  
and an analysis of key operating expenses are also shown here. 
Accounting policies
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and consists of sales to third parties after an allowance for returns, trade discounts  
and volume rebates. 
Goods and services sold   
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when both the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred  
to the customer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. This is normally when title passes to the customer.   
Revenue from rental of assets is recognised over the duration of the rental contract, on a straight line basis, at the amount  
billed to the customer.
Section 2 – Results for the year  74 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the year
 2.1 Proﬁt before tax
Segment reporting
The Group has three reportable segments which are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the  
Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board). Further details on the nature of these segments and the products and 
services they provide are contained in the Directors’ Report.      
     Corporate and   
 Videocom Imaging 
(1)
 Services unallocated Consolidated
   2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue from external customers:          
  Sales     137.1  134.0  166.1  183.2  7.0  7.5  -  -  310.2  324.7
  Services     9.1  2.2  -  -  26.0  24.1  -  -  35.1  26.3
Total revenue from external customers    146.2  136.2  166.1  183.2  33.0  31.6  -  -  345.3  351.0
Inter-segment revenue
 (2)
    2.5  2.3  0.2  0.6  0.1  0.1  (2.8)  (3.0)  -  -
Total revenue    148.7  138.5  166.3  183.8  33.1  31.7  (2.8)  (3.0)  345.3  351.0
Segment result    15.8  12.7  22.3  21.2  1.2  0.6  -  -  39.3  34.5
Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration on  
previous acquisitions    (1.2)  -  0.2  -  -  -  -  -  (1.0)  -
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions    (0.3)  (0.5)  -  (0.3)  -  -  -  -  (0.3) (0.8)
Impairment of goodwill    (8.8)  -  -  (5.2)  -  -  -  -  (8.8) (5.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets    (3.1)  (2.6)  (0.5)  (0.6)  -  -  -  -  (3.6) (3.2)
Operating profit    2.4  9.6  22.0  15.1  1.2  0.6  -  -  25.6  25.3
Finance income            2.5  3.1
Finance costs            (5.6) (4.6)
Loss on disposal of Staging business    -  -  (6.4)  -  -  -  -  -  (6.4)  -
Taxation            (10.2) (8.8)
Profit for the year            5.9  15.0
Segment assets    111.6  119.6  90.8  100.3  22.4  22.2  4.5  0.8  229.3  242.9
Unallocated assets          
  Cash and cash equivalents           10.0  6.9  10.0  6.9
  Current tax assets           1.0  0.8  1.0  0.8
  Deferred tax assets           14.4  15.8  14.4  15.8
Total assets            254.7  266.4
Segment liabilities    23.1  27.3  27.2  33.2  3.9  3.1  4.4  8.1  58.6  71.7
Unallocated liabilities          
  Bank overdrafts           0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7
  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings           73.0  56.6  73.0  56.6
  Current tax liabilities           6.6  7.4  6.6  7.4
  Deferred tax liabilities           1.2  0.7  1.2  0.7
Total liabilities            140.1  137.1
Cash flows from operating activities    2.8  3.8  13.1  11.7  5.4  5.7  3.2  5.0  24.5  26.2
Cash flows from investing activities    (14.2)  (1.4)  (6.8)  (3.6)  (5.3)  (3.5)  (0.1)  (29.1)  (26.4) (37.6)
Cash flows from financing activities    -  -  -  -  -  -  5.6  10.9  5.6  10.9
Capital expenditure           
  Property, plant and equipment     3.1  3.2  4.2  4.4  6.8  5.8  0.1  0.3  14.2  13.7
  Intangible assets     0.6  0.7  0.6  1.2  0.1  0.5  -  -  1.3  2.4
(1)
 The Imaging and Staging segment has been renamed the Imaging segment following the disposal of the Staging business in the year (see note 3.5 “Disposals”).
(2)
 Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in either 2012 or 2011. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 75
Geographical segments  
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Analysis of revenue from external customers, by location of customer  
United Kingdom          32.9  26.0
The rest of Europe          79.4  89.3
North America          155.5  156.9
Asia Pacific          60.4  61.0
The rest of the World          17.1  17.8
Total revenue from external customers          345.3  351.0
The Group’s operating segments are located in several geographical locations, and sell products and services on to external customers 
in all parts of the world.
Operating expenses  
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Analysis of operating expenses   
  - Charges associated with acquired businesses         13.7  9.2
  - Other administrative expenses           48.2  48.0
Administrative expenses           61.9  57.2
Marketing, selling and distribution costs          48.6  51.4
Research, development and engineering costs         11.1  12.2
Operating expenses          121.6  120.8 
Operating proﬁt  
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
The following items are included in operating profit  
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements     0.1  0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services  
  - The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation        0.3  0.3
  - Transaction and other services          0.1  0.2 76 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the year
2.2 Charges associated with acquired businesses 
Charges associated with acquired businesses are excluded from key performance measures in order to more accurately 
show the underlying current business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and reﬂect how the business is 
managed and measured on a day-to-day basis. Such costs include non-cash charges, for example impairment of goodwill  
and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and cash charges such as transaction costs and fair value adjustments  
to contingent consideration since date of acquisition.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Contingent consideration on previous acquisitions
 (1)
         (1.0)  -
Transaction costs relating to acquisitions
 (2) 
         (0.3) (0.8)
Impairment of goodwill
 (3)
          (8.8) (5.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets          (3.6) (3.2)
Charges associated with acquired businesses, before tax        (13.7) (9.2)
Tax on charges associated with acquired businesses         1.3  2.0
Charges associated with acquired businesses, net of tax         (12.4) (7.2)
(1)
  A contingent consideration of £1.2 million has been provided for at 31 December 2012 in respect of a prior period acquisition (Haigh-Farr). A contingent 
consideration of £0.7 million provided within goodwill at 31 December 2011 in respect of a prior period acquisition (Manfrotto Lighting, previously Lastolite),  
was reversed by £0.2 million. The net charge of £1.0 million is included within administrative expenses, in the charges associated with acquired businesses.  
See note 3.4 “Acquisitions” .   
(2)
  £0.3 million transaction costs were incurred in relation to the acquisition of Camera Corps. See note 3.4 “Acquisitions” .   
(3)
  The annual impairment review of goodwill led to a charge of £8.8 million to the goodwill of the IMT business, in the Videocom Division.   
 
2.3 Net ﬁnance expense  
This note details the ﬁnance income and expense generated from the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. 
Accounting policies
Net ﬁnance expense comprises:   
 - interest payable on borrowings and interest receivable on funds invested;    
 - the amortisation of loan costs;    
 - foreign exchange gains and losses on external loans that are not part of a net investment hedge;   
 - the ﬁnance element of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes; and    
 - gains and losses on derivatives to the extent that they are recognised in the Income Statement. 
Net ﬁnance expense  
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Finance income   
Expected return on assets in the pension scheme
 (1)
         2.2  2.8
Net currency translation gains          0.3  0.3
            2.5  3.1
Finance expense   
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings        (3.2) (1.9)
Interest charge on defined benefit pension scheme liabilities
 (1)
        (2.4)  (2.7)
            (5.6)  (4.6)
Net finance expense          (3.1) (1.5)
(1)
 See note 5.2 “Pensions” .  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 77
2.4 Tax 
This note lays out the tax accounting policies, the total tax charge or credit in the Income Statement, and tax assets  
and tax liabilities in the Balance Sheet. This includes amounts relating to deferred tax.
Accounting policies
Income Tax
The tax expense in the Income Statement represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.   
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years. Deferred tax is provided using the Balance Sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for ﬁnancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred 
tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.      
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carried forward unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the 
carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.       
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent  
of the probable level of taxable proﬁt that would be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for the following temporary differences:  
 -  Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor the taxable proﬁt or loss; and  
 -  Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal is controlled by the Company  
and they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Tax - Income Statement  
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
The total taxation charge/(credit) in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:      
Before charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business      
Current tax          9.8  8.7
Deferred tax           2.1  2.1
            11.9  10.8
Charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business      
Current tax
 (1)
          - (0.3)
Deferred tax
 (2)
          (1.7) (1.7)
            (1.7) (2.0)
Summarised in the Income Statement as follows      
Current tax          9.8  8.4
Deferred tax           0.4  0.4
            10.2  8.8 
(1)
  Current tax credits of £0.3 million were recognised with a corresponding credit to Charges associated with acquired businesses in 2011. This related to the 
current tax impact of the amortisation of intangible assets in the period. There is no impact of the amortisation of intangibles to current tax in 2012.
(2)
  Deferred tax credits of £1.7 million have been recognised. £1.3 million relates to the deferred tax impacts of the amortisation of intangible assets. The remaining  
£0.4 million relates to the deferred tax impact of the Staging disposal. In 2011, the impairment of goodwill to the Italian portion of the Staging business resulted  
in the reversal of a deferred tax liability and a corresponding credit to Charges associated with acquired businesses of £0.7 million with the remaining £1.0 million 
credit related to the deferred tax impacts of the amortisation of intangible assets. 78 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the year
 2.4 T ax
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Current tax expense        
Charge for the year         10.0 9.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years          (0.2) (0.8)
           9.8 8.4
The UK current tax charge represents £1.5 million of the total Group current tax charge of £9.8 million with the remaining charge of  
£8.3 million relating to overseas tax. The UK corporate tax rate reduced from 26% to 24% on 1 April 2012 and a further reduction in the 
rate to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 has been enacted. The UK Government has announced its intention to further reduce the rate 
to 21% from 1 April 2014.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Deferred tax expense        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences         0.4 0.4
Tax credits recognised in SOCIE
 (3)
         - -
           0.4 0.4 
(3) 
 Deferred tax debits relating to the impact of cash ﬂow hedges of £1.0 million have been fully offset by an equal £1.0 million credit in respect of the UK and  
German deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. Both items have been reﬂected in the SOCIE.      
The UK deferred tax credit represents £0.5 million of the total Group deferred tax charge of £0.4 million, offset by a £0.9 million charge 
relating to overseas tax.        
         2012 2011 
Reconciliation of Group tax charge         £m £m
Profit before tax          16.1  23.8
Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%)       4.0  6.3
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions          (1.3) (0.2)
Non-deductible expenses          1.0  0.9
Impact of business disposal          2.5  -
Impact of tax credits in respect of prior years         (0.7) (0.8)
Impact of goodwill impairment          3.3  1.0
Impact of tax losses not recognised          1.5  1.5
Other          (0.1)  0.1
Total income tax expense in Income Statement          10.2  8.8 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 79
Tax - Balance Sheet 
Current tax 
The current tax liability of £6.6 million (2011: £7.4 million) represents the amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior 
periods. The current tax assets of £1.0 million (2011: £0.8 million) mainly relate to income tax receivable in Germany and the US. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
      Recognised Recognised Eliminated   
      in on on Exchange  
     2012 income acquisitions disposals movements 2011 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories      2.9  0.7  -  -  -  2.2
Intangible assets      (1.3)  0.7  (0.7)  -  - (1.3)
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      4.1  0.6  -  -  (0.1)  3.6
Property, plant, equipment and other      8.7  (1.9)  -  (0.3)  (0.4)  11.3
        14.4  0.1  (0.7)  (0.3)  (0.5)  15.8
Liabilities      
Intangible assets      (1.2)  (0.5)  -  -  - (0.7)
        (1.2)  (0.5)  -  -  - (0.7)
Net       13.2  (0.4)  (0.7)  (0.3)  (0.5)  15.1
      Recognised Recognised    
      in on  Exchange  
     2011 income acquisitions Transfers
 (1)
 movements 2010 
     £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets         
Inventories      2.2  (0.5)  -  0.3  0.2  2.2
Intangible assets      (1.3)  (0.3)  (4.7)  (1.6)  -  5.3
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised      3.6  0.8  -  (0.6)  (0.2)  3.6
Property, plant, equipment and other      11.3  (0.4)  -  0.2  -  11.5
        15.8  (0.4)  (4.7)  (1.7)  -  22.6
Liabilities      
Intangible assets      (0.7)  -  -  1.6  - (2.3)
Property, plant, equipment and other      -  -  -  0.1  - (0.1)
        (0.7)  -  -  1.7  - (2.4)
Net      15.1  (0.4)  (4.7)  -  -  20.2
(1) 
 Deferred tax assets have been offset against liabilities where assets and liabilities arise in the same jurisdiction and there is a legal right of offset. 
Deferred tax assets totalling £9.2 million (2011: £9.9 million) have been recognised in the US on the basis that future proﬁts are expected 
to be made in the US businesses such that it is probable that these assets will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Losses         7.7 6.6
Temporary differences on share options         1.2 1.2
Total         8.9 7.8
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not sufﬁciently probable that these assets will reverse in 
the foreseeable future.
No taxes have been provided for liabilities which may arise on the distribution of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries on the basis of control, 
except where distributions of such proﬁts are planned. Cumulative unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates totalled 
approximately £61.2 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: £57.9 million). It is not practical to calculate the tax which would arise on remittance 
of these amounts and, as dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries to the UK should be exempt from additional UK tax, no signiﬁcant  
tax charges would be expected.         80 The Vitec Group plc
Section 2 – Results for the year
2.5 Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (“EPS”) is the amount of post-tax proﬁt attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the proﬁt for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year.      
Diluted EPS is calculated on the proﬁt for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year, but adjusted for the effects of dilutive share options. The key features of share option contracts are 
described in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”.
The Adjusted EPS measure is used by Management to assess the underlying performance of the ongoing businesses,  
and therefore excludes charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business, both net of tax.
The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below:
         2012 2011 
Profit         £m £m
Profit for the financial year          5.9  15.0
Add back:      
Charges associated with acquired businesses, net of tax         12.4  7.2
Loss on disposal of Staging business, net of tax         6.0  -
Earnings before charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business      24.3  22.2
     Weighted average number Adjusted earnings 
     of shares ’000  per share Earnings per share
     2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 
     Number Number pence pence pence pence
Basic       43,520  43,197  55.8  51.4  13.6  34.7
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:       
  - Employee share options       311  975  (0.4)  (1.2)  (0.1) (0.7)
  - Deferred bonus plan       115  102  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1) (0.1)
Diluted      43,946  44,274  55.3  50.1  13.4  33.9  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 81
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
This section shows the assets and liabilities used to  
generate the Group’s trading performance. Liabilities  
relating to the Group’s ﬁnancing activities are addressed  
in Section 4. Current tax and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are shown in Section 2.4.   
On the following pages, there are disclosures covering  
the following:   
3.1 Intangible assets    
3.2 Property, plant and equipment    
3.3 Working capital    
3.4 Acquisitions    
3.5 Disposals    
3.6 Provisions
3.1 Intangible assets
This shows the non-physical assets used by the Group  
to generate revenues and proﬁts. These assets include  
the following:    
 - Goodwill    
 - Acquired intangible assets    
 - Capitalised software    
 - Capitalised development costs  
Accounting policies
Goodwill 
The goodwill recognised by the Group has all arisen as a result 
of acquisitions and is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not 
reversed. From 1 January 2004 (IFRS transition date), goodwill 
is allocated on acquisition, to cash-generating units that are 
anticipated to beneﬁt from the combination, and is not subject to 
amortisation but is tested annually for impairment. Impairment is 
determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the goodwill relates. This estimate of 
recoverable amount is determined at each Balance Sheet date.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires signiﬁcant 
assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors 
such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating 
unit, including both its operating proﬁt and operating cash  
ﬂow performance. Where the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment  
loss is recognised.    
All acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2010 are 
accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill on 
these acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the 
acquisition over the fair value to the Group, of the identiﬁable net 
assets acquired, all measured at the acquisition date. Subsequent 
adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired can be 
made within twelve months of the acquisition date where original 
fair values were determined provisionally. These adjustments are 
accounted for from the date of acquisition. Transaction costs that 
the Group incurs in connection with an acquisition, such as legal 
fees, due diligence fees and other professional and consulting 
fees, are expensed as incurred.   
Acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and  
31 December 2009 have been accounted for by applying 
the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations (2004)’. Goodwill on these acquisitions represents 
the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value to the 
Group of the identiﬁable net assets acquired. When the excess 
is negative (negative goodwill) it is recognised immediately in the 
Income Statement. Transaction costs that the Group incurred in 
connection with an acquisition, such as legal fees, due diligence 
fees and other professional and consulting fees, were included  
in the cost of acquisition.    
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is 
included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the 
amount recorded previously under UK GAAP at that time less 
amortisation up to 31 December 2003. Prior to 1 January 1998, 
goodwill was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Other intangible assets   
The other intangible assets are either acquired, or internally 
generated (such as capitalised software and capitalised 
development costs).    
Acquired intangible assets   
Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated 
amortisation at the rates indicated below:   
Order backlog    up to 2 years
Brand     3 to 15 years
Customer relationships   3 to 15 years
Technology    3 to 15 years 82 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
 3.1 Intangible assets
Capitalised software 
The cost of acquiring software (including associated implementation 
and development costs where applicable) is classiﬁed as an 
intangible asset. Costs that are directly associated with the 
production of identiﬁable and unique software products controlled 
by the Group, and that are assessed as likely to generate 
economic beneﬁts exceeding costs beyond one year, are also 
capitalised and recognised as intangible assets. Costs associated 
with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised 
as an expense as incurred. Capitalised software expenditure is 
amortised over its estimated useful life of between 3 to 5 years, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.    
Capitalised development costs   
Research and development costs are charged to the Income 
Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless 
development expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation. 
Once detailed and strict criteria have been met that conﬁrm that  
the product or process is both technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group has sufﬁcient resources to complete 
the project, any further expenditure incurred on the project is 
capitalised. The capitalised expenditure includes the cost of 
materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overheads. 
Capitalised expenditure is amortised over the life of the project, 
and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.    
Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) 
containing goodwill   
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of 
Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating 
units which are identiﬁed by the way goodwill is monitored for 
impairment. The most signiﬁcant elements of the Group’s total 
consolidated goodwill of £52.3 million at 31 December 2012 are 
allocated to Vitec Videocom: £18.4 million (2011: £17.2 million) 
Imaging: £12.7 million (2011: £13.0 million) and Haigh-Farr:  
£12.7 million (2011: £13.3 million). Vitec Videocom and Haigh-Farr 
CGUs sit within the Videocom segment and the Imaging CGU 
sits within the Imaging segment. The remaining goodwill relates to 
CGUs which are not individually signiﬁcant. Each cash-generating 
unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is a 
speciﬁc indication of impairment.    
As part of the annual impairment test review, the carrying value of 
goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use over 
a projected period of ﬁve years together with a terminal value. 
This reﬂects the projected cash ﬂows of each cash-generating 
unit based on the actual operating results, the most recent Board 
approved budget, strategic plans and management projections.
A goodwill impairment of £8.8 million has been charged to the 
Income Statement, within charges associated with acquired 
businesses. This is in relation to the Group’s full impairment  
of goodwill in the IMT business (2011: £5.2 million relating to 
goodwill in the Staging business). While the business is trading in 
line with expectations in 2012, the Directors have reassessed its 
longer term prospects and concluded that these do not support  
the carrying value of goodwill. The IMT CGU represents a  
business operation and is within the Videocom segment.
The carrying value of the remaining CGUs exceed their 
recoverable amounts.   
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations 
are based relate to business performance over the next ﬁve 
years, long-term growth rates beyond 2017 and the discount 
rates applied. The key judgements are the level of revenue and 
operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating 
proﬁt converted to cash in each year. Forecasts are based on 
past experience and take into account current and future market 
conditions and opportunities.   
Growth rates for the period beyond 2017 are assumed to be 2%, 
which is considered to be at or below long-term market trends for 
signiﬁcant CGUs.    
The cash ﬂow projections have been discounted to present value 
using the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for economic and CGU-speciﬁc risk factors including 
markets and size of business. Pre-tax rates of 9% to 14% have 
been used for impairment testing (11% applied to the Haigh-Farr 
CGU, 13% applied to the Vitec Videocom and Imaging CGUs  
and 14% applied to IMT CGU).   
The following speciﬁc individual sensitivities have been considered 
for each CGU in relation to the value in use calculations, resulting  
in the carrying amount not exceeding the recoverable amount: 
 -  if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced to 1%; 
and 
 - a 1% point increase in the discount rate applied. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 83
Intangible assets
        Acquired  Capitalised 
        intangible Capitalised development 
      Total Goodwill  assets software costs 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Cost         
At 1 January 2011       100.6  52.7  34.2  11.6  2.1
Currency translation adjustments       0.3  0.1  0.3  (0.1)  -
Additions/(reductions)       1.5  (0.9)  -  2.3  0.1
Acquisitions       31.8  18.3  13.5  -  -
At 31 December 2011       134.2  70.2  48.0  13.8  2.2
At 1 January 2012       134.2  70.2  48.0  13.8  2.2
Currency translation adjustments       (4.8)  (2.3)  (2.0)  (0.4) (0.1)
Additions
 (1)
       2.0  0.7  -  1.0  0.3
Disposals       (0.6)  -  -  (0.6)  -
Disposals - on divestment of business       (12.1)  (8.2)  (3.1)  (0.8)  -
Acquisitions
 (2)
       8.1  5.0  3.1  -  -
At 31 December 2012       126.8  65.4  46.0  13.0  2.4
Amortisation and impairment losses     
At 1 January 2011       48.8  7.9  31.5  9.2  0.2
Currency translation adjustment       0.3  -  0.4  (0.1)  -
Amortisation in the year       4.9  -  3.2  1.2  0.5
Impairment charge       5.2  5.2  -  -  -
At 31 December 2011       59.2  13.1  35.1  10.3  0.7
At 1 January 2012       59.2  13.1  35.1  10.3  0.7
Currency translation adjustment       (2.6)  (0.6)  (1.6)  (0.4)  -
Amortisation in the year       5.2  -  3.6  1.0  0.6
Impairment charge
 (3)
       8.8  8.8  -  -  -
Disposals - on divestment of business       (12.0)  (8.2)  (3.1)  (0.7)  -
At 31 December 2012       58.6  13.1  34.0  10.2  1.3
Carrying amounts     
At 1 January 2011       51.8  44.8  2.7  2.4  1.9
At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012       75.0  57.1  12.9  3.5  1.5
At 31 December 2012       68.2  52.3  12.0  2.8  1.1
(1)
  The increase in goodwill of £0.7 million arose on the deferred consideration of Litepanels (an acquisition prior to 1 January 2010) being revised to reﬂect the 
increased earn-out payment of £0.7 million that was not accrued at 31 December 2011.   
(2)
 Acquired intangible assets of £3.1 million and goodwill of £5.0 million arose on the acquisition of Camera Corps. See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.
(3)
 The annual impairment review of goodwill led to a full impairment charge of £8.8 million to the goodwill of the IMT business, in the Videocom Division. 84 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
This shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and proﬁts. These assets include the following: 
 - Land and buildings  
 - Plant, machinery and vehicles  
 - Equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings  
Accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Certain land and buildings  
that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, 
being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.   
Rental assets are recorded as plant and machinery.  
Depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over 
their estimated useful lives. The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and expected residual 
value at the end of its life. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows:  
Freehold land     not depreciated
Freehold and long leasehold buildings     up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements     shorter of estimated useful life or remaining period of the lease
Plant and machinery     4 to 10 years
Motor vehicles     3 to 4 years
Equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings     3 to 10 years
Rental assets     3 to 6 years 
Impairment of assets   
Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Indicators of impairment may include changes in technology and market conditions. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 85
Property, plant and equipment        
         Plant, Equipment, 
        Land machinery fixtures 
        and and and 
       Total buildings vehicles fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2011         147.8  35.0  97.5 15.3
Currency translation adjustments         (1.0)  (0.3)  (0.6) (0.1)
Additions         13.7  1.4  11.1  1.2
Disposals         (15.8)  (5.6)  (8.1) (2.1)
Acquisitions         0.2  -  0.2  - 
At 31 December 2011         144.9  30.5  100.1  14.3
At 1 January 2012         144.9  30.5 100.1 14.3
Currency translation adjustments         (4.9)  (0.7)  (3.6) (0.6)
Transfers between categories         -  -  (1.3) 1.3
Additions         14.2  1.5  10.7  2.0
Disposals         (6.2)  (0.2)  (5.4) (0.6)
Disposals - on divestment of business         (5.4)  (1.5)  (3.4) (0.5)
Acquisitions         0.8  -  0.7  0.1
At 31 December 2012         143.4  29.6  97.8  16.0
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011         94.4  14.2  69.7  10.5
Currency translation adjustment         (0.8)  (0.2)  (0.5) (0.1)
Depreciation charge in the year         13.2  1.6  10.4  1.2
Disposals         (12.0)  (2.7)  (7.3) (2.0)
At 31 December 2011         94.8  12.9  72.3  9.6
At 1 January 2012         94.8  12.9  72.3  9.6
Currency translation adjustment         (3.2)  (0.2)  (2.6) (0.4)
Transfers between asset categories         -  -  (1.0)  1.0
Depreciation charge in the year         12.6  1.4  9.5  1.7
Disposals         (5.3)  (0.2)  (4.5) (0.6)
Disposals - on divestment of business         (4.1)  (0.9)  (2.9) (0.3)
At 31 December 2012         94.8  13.0  70.8  11.0
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2011         53.4  20.8  27.8  4.8
At 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2012         50.1  17.6  27.8  4.7
At 31 December 2012         48.6  16.6  27.0  5.0
Plant, machinery and vehicles includes broadcast equipment rental assets with an original cost of £46.2 million (2011: £45.4 million)  
and accumulated depreciation of £34.1 million (2011: £31.2 million).
Capital commitments at 31 December 2012 for which no provision has been made in the accounts amount to £0.7 million  
(2011: £0.3 million). 86 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
3.3 Working capital
Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activities. The Group therefore 
deﬁnes working capital as inventory, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables.    
Careful management of working capital is vital as it ensures that the Group can meet its trading and ﬁnancing obligations 
within its ordinary operating cycle.  
Accounting policies
Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Inventory acquired as part of business combinations 
is valued at fair value. Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to 
bring the inventory to its existing location and condition. In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress cost includes an 
appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Inventory is accounted for on an average cost or ﬁrst-in, 
ﬁrst-out method as appropriate. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
costs of completion and selling expenses. Provisions for inventories are recognised when the book value exceeds its net realisable value.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised at the invoice value less provision for impairment. The carrying value of trade receivables is 
considered to approximate fair value.   
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that amounts due will not be collected according to the original 
terms of the receivables. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial difﬁculties of the debtor and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired.   
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of payments on account.
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
Inventories
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Raw materials and components          15.9  18.5
Work in progress          11.8  12.6
Finished goods          31.8  35.3
Inventories, net of impairment provisions          59.5  66.4 
   
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Impairment provisions against inventory obsolescence   
Balance at 1 January          20.9  18.9
Net increase during the year          3.6  3.2
Utilised during the year          (6.0) (1.3)
Disposals - on divestment of business          (0.8)  -
Currency translation adjustments          (0.7)  0.1
Balance at 31 December          17.0  20.9  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 87
Trade and other receivables
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Short-term receivables   
Trade receivables, net of impairment provisions         38.2  38.7
Other receivables          9.5  8.6
Prepayments and accrued income          2.4  3.4
            50.1  50.7
Long-term receivables   
Other receivables          0.5  0.4
Total receivables          50.6  51.1
   
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Gross trade receivables - days overdue
 (1)
 
Current          32.4  33.5
1-30 days          6.6  6.0
31-60 days          1.6  1.7
61-90 days          0.3  0.5
over 90 days          0.9  2.5
Gross trade receivables          41.8  44.2
(1)
 Days overdue are measured from the date an invoice was due to be paid.
   
          Sales 
          returns and 
        Total Bad debts discounts 
        £m £m £m
Impairment provisions against trade receivables  
Balance at 1 January 2012         5.5  2.9  2.6
Net increase during the year         4.8  0.1  4.7
Utilised during the year         (5.9)  (0.8) (5.1)
Disposals - on divestment of business         (0.6)  (0.6)  -
Currency translation adjustments         (0.2)  (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 31 December 2012         3.6  1.5  2.1
Trade and other payables
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Current trade and other payables  
Trade payables         22.4  29.7
Other tax and social security costs         3.3  2.9
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income        18.7  25.7
           44.4  58.3
Long-term payables  
Other non-trade payables, accruals and deferred income        1.0  1.2
Total payables         45.4  59.5
    88 The Vitec Group plc
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
3.4 Acquisitions
This note outlines how the Group has accounted for businesses that it has acquired.   
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. As part of the acquisition accounting the  
Group has adopted a process to identify the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate 
identiﬁcation of intangible assets and to allocate the consideration paid. This process continues as information is ﬁnalised, 
and accordingly the fair value adjustments presented in the tables below are provisional. In accordance with  IFRS 3 (Revised) 
until the assessment is complete the allocation period will remain open up to a maximum of twelve months from the 
acquisition date so long as information remains outstanding. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the Income 
Statement as incurred in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised).   
Acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns.  
Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses represent much of the assessed  
value of goodwill.  
Acquisition of Camera Corps 
On 10 April 2012, the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Camera Corps Ltd (“Camera Corps”). Based in the UK,  
Camera Corps is a world leading provider of speciality remote camera systems used by broadcasters for capturing high quality images. 
This includes the Q-Ball™ which provides high deﬁnition images from a small, highly ﬂexible and easy to operate camera system that 
is increasingly used at events from top sporting events such as the Olympics to reality TV shows. The acquisition complements the 
Group’s existing range of broadcast equipment and its products are marketed through the Group’s global distribution network.  
The Group’s Services Division is the existing US distributor of the Q-Ball™. Camera Corps operates within the Videocom Division.
The acquisition was funded from existing cash resources.   
A summary of the effect of the acquisition of Camera Corps is detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -  3.1  3.1
Property, plant and equipment         1.1  (0.3)  0.8
Inventories         0.4  (0.1)  0.3
Trade and other receivables         0.8  -  0.8
Trade and other payables         (1.2)  (0.1) (1.3)
Cash         0.7  -  0.7
Deferred tax         (0.1)  (0.6) (0.7)
           1.7  2.0  3.7
Goodwill           5.0
Cash consideration           8.7
The value of the gross trade receivables at acquisition date amounted to £0.3 million reﬂecting Management’s estimate of the fair  
value to be attributed.    Annual Report & Accounts 2012 89
The results of Camera Corps have been included in the Videocom Division and comprise:
          2012 
          £m
Revenue          7.0
Operating profit
 (1)
          2.3
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the year (i.e. 1 January 2012) it would have contributed £7.6 million to revenue and 
£2.3 million to the operating proﬁt of the Group. 
(1)
  Operating proﬁt is stated before amortisation of intangibles assets and after allocation of Head Ofﬁce costs.
An analysis of the cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions is provided below.  
          2012 
          £m
Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisition   
Total purchase consideration           8.7
Transaction costs            0.3
Cash acquired           (0.7)
Net cash outflow in respect of 2012 acquisition          8.3
Contingent consideration in relation to Litepanels, acquired in August 2008        1.5
Contingent consideration in relation to Manfrotto Lighting (previously Lastolite), acquired in March 2011      0.5
Working capital adjustment in relation to Haigh-Farr, acquired in December 2011        0.6
Cash paid in 2012 in respect of prior year acquisitions          2.6
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (2)
          10.9
(2)
  Transaction costs of £0.3 million are included in cash ﬂows from operating activities and net cash consideration paid of £10.6 million is included in cash ﬂows  
from investing activities. 90 The Vitec Group plc
3.5 Disposals
During the second half of the year the Group sold its Staging business, which was previously included in the Imaging Division.  
The Staging companies were based in the UK, USA, Mexico, Italy and Slovakia. The disposal enables Management to place  
greater focus on opportunities in the Group’s core markets.
The disposal was completed on 13 August 2012. The net cash outﬂow, after transaction costs, was £2.1 million resulting in a  
loss on disposal of £6.4 million after taking into account transaction costs together with the net assets disposed (£6.3 million)  
offset by cash consideration (£0.3 million) and the previously recorded foreign exchange gain that has been recycled to the  
Income Statement (£2.0 million).
Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities
 3.4 Acquisitions
Acquisitions in 2011
On 4 March 2011, the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Henry (Holdings) Limited, a UK company which owns Manfrotto 
Lighting Limited (previously Lastolite Limited) and the Colorama brand.    
On 15 December 2011, the Group acquired the whole of the share capital of Haigh-Farr, Inc (Haigh-Farr), a private company based in 
Bedford, New Hampshire, USA.    
A summary of the effect of the acquisitions are detailed below: 
        Book Provisional Fair value of 
        value at fair value net assets 
        acquisition adjustments acquired 
        £m £m £m
Net assets acquired   
Intangible assets         -  13.5  13.5
Property, plant and equipment         0.2  -  0.2
Inventories         2.2  0.1  2.3
Trade and other receivables         2.1  -  2.1
Trade and other payables         (2.0)  (0.4) (2.4)
Cash         0.9  -  0.9
Deferred tax         -  (4.7) (4.7)
Current tax         (0.1)  - (0.1)
           3.3  8.5  11.8
Goodwill           18.3
Consideration            30.1 
Satisfied by   
  - Cash consideration            28.8
  - Deferred consideration            1.3
             30.1
An analysis of the cash ﬂows relating to acquisitions is provided below. 
          £m
Total purchase consideration           30.1
Deferred consideration          (1.3)
Cash consideration           28.8
Transaction costs            0.8
Cash acquired           (0.9)
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions
 (1)
          28.7
(1)
  Transaction costs of £0.8 million are included in cash ﬂows from operating activities and net cash consideration paid of £27.9 million is included in cash ﬂows  
from investing activities. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 91
3.6 Provisions
A provision is recognised by the Group where an obligation exists, relating to events in the past, and it is probable that an 
outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle it.  
Accounting policies
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle it. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at an appropriate discount rate.       
Provisions for warranties, based on historical warranty data, are recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.  
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced.       
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic beneﬁts expected to be received under it. 
         Onerous Deferred 
      Total Warranty Restructuring lease consideration 
      £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012       5.7  1.5  1.2  0.8  2.2
Provisions utilised during the year       (4.0)  (0.6)  (0.6)  (0.2) (2.6)
Provisions increased/(decreased) during the year      0.4  (0.3)  -  -  0.7
Charged to the Income Statement       1.7  0.7  -  -  1.0
Currency translation adjustments       (0.1)  -  -  - (0.1)
At 31 December 2012       3.7  1.3  0.6  0.6  1.2
Current       2.5  0.8  0.3  0.2  1.2
Non-current       1.2  0.5  0.3  0.4  -
         3.7  1.3  0.6  0.6  1.2
Warranty provisions      
Warranties over the Group’s products typically cover periods of between two and ﬁve years. The provision represents Management’s 
best estimate of the Group’s liability based on past experience.
Restructuring      
The restructuring provision is in relation to a previously announced efﬁciency programme and is expected to be utilised by 2015.  
Onerous lease contracts      
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Group entered into  
in previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the lease up to four years, or earlier if exited.
Deferred consideration      
The Group paid £2.6 million (Litepanels: £1.5 million, Haigh-Farr: £0.6 million, Lastolite: £0.5 million) in respect of prior years’ 
acquisitions. See note 3.4 “Acquisitions”.      
In respect of Litepanels (an acquisition prior to 1 January 2010) the deferred consideration has been revised to reﬂect the increased 
earn-out payment of £0.7 million that was not accrued at 31 December 2011 with a corresponding increase to goodwill of £0.7 million.
A charge of £1.0 million to the Income Statement is in relation to the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration on previous 
acquisitions. See note 2.2 “Charges associated with acquired businesses”.      
The deferred consideration provision at 31 December 2012 of £1.2 million relates to amounts payable in respect of a prior period 
acquisition (Haigh-Farr). Up to a further US$2.5 million (£1.5 million) is payable in 2014 upon the vendors remaining employed within  
the business and achievement of performance targets for the year ending 31 December 2013. This will be charged to the Income 
Statement as and when incurred. 92 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital structure
This section outlines the Group’s capital structure. The Group deﬁnes its capital structure as its equity and non-current 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings and aims to manage this to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern,  
so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders. The Group manages the  
capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, it may return capital to shareholders, through 
dividends and share buy backs, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group considers its dividend policy 
at least twice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its 
business plan. The Group focuses on leverage, credit ratings and interest cost, particularly when considering investment.
On the following pages there are disclosures concerning the following:  
4.1 Net debt
4.2 Financial instruments
4.3 Share capital and reserves   
4.1 Net debt
The Group’s net debt comprises of the following:
 - Interest-bearing loans and borrowings    
 - Cash and cash equivalents (cash on hand and demand deposits at banks)    
 - Bank overdrafts that are payable on demand  
Accounting policies
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet represent cash on hand and demand deposits at banks. Demand deposits are  
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash without penalty and that are subject to  
an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value.   
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash ﬂows include bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of the Group’s cash management.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, these transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the related borrowings.   
Analysis of net debt  
The table below analyses the Group’s components of net debt and their movements in the year.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents          3.7 (0.5)
Proceeds from interest-bearing loans and borrowings          (18.8) (21.6)
Increase in net debt resulting from cash flows         (15.1) (22.1)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held          (0.6)  -
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on debt held          2.4 (0.2)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on net debt          1.8 (0.2)
Movements in net debt in the year           (13.3) (22.3)
Net debt at 1 January           (50.4) (28.1)
Net debt at 31 December          (63.7) (50.4)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet          10.0  6.9
Bank overdrafts           (0.7) (0.7)
Cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows         9.3  6.2
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings           (73.0) (56.6)
Net debt at 31 December           (63.7) (50.4)
    Annual Report & Accounts 2012 93
4.2 Financial instruments
This provides details on:
 - Financial risk management 
 - Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
 - Fair value hierarchy 
 - Interest rate proﬁle 
 - Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities  
Financial risk management  
The Group’s multinational operations and debt ﬁnancing 
expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks. In the course of its 
business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, 
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.   
  
Financial risk management is an integral part of the 
way the Group is managed. Financial risk management 
policies are set by the Board of Directors. These policies 
are implemented by a central treasury department that 
has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange 
risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where 
appropriate, the use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments.  
The Group has clearly deﬁned authority and approval  
limits built into these procedures.   
Foreign currency risk   
Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase 
transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective 
functional currencies of Group companies (transactional exposures) 
and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into 
the Group’s reporting currency of Sterling (translational exposures).
The Group has operations around the world which record their 
results in a variety of different local functional currencies. In countries 
where the Group does not have operations, it invariably has some 
customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency. The 
Group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates between a number of different currencies, but  
the Group’s primary exposures relate to the US Dollar and Euro. 
Where appropriate, the Group manages its foreign currency 
exposures using derivative ﬁnancial instruments.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency 
risks through the use of forward exchange contracts. Forward 
exchange contracts are typically used to hedge 75% of the Group’s 
forecasted foreign currency exposure in respect of transactions for 
the following 12 months and up to 50% of the Group’s forecasted 
foreign currency exposure in respect of transactions for the following 
12 to 24 months. These contracts have maturities of less than  
one year and between one and two years at the Balance Sheet 
date respectively.     
The Group’s translational exposures to foreign currency risks can 
relate both to the Income Statement and net assets of overseas 
subsidiaries. The Group’s policy is not to hedge the translational 
exposure that arises on consolidation of the statement of income 
of overseas subsidiaries. The Group ﬁnances overseas company 
investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings  
in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising  
on translation of the Group’s foreign currency subsidiaries.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated 
cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling 
foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address  
short-term imbalances.     
At 31 December 2012, it is estimated that a ten cent stronger/
weaker US Dollar against Sterling and Euro would have increased/
decreased the Group’s operating proﬁt before charges associated 
with acquired businesses for the year ended 31 December 2012  
by approximately £1.1 million. 
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk comprises of both the interest rate price risk 
that results from borrowing at ﬁxed rates of interest and also the 
interest cash ﬂow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, it is estimated that a 
general increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest 
rates, would decrease/increase the Group’s proﬁt before tax  
by approximately £0.8 million.
Liquidity risk     
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet  
its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due. 
On 19 July 2012 the Group signed a ﬁve year £100 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with a syndicate 
comprising of ﬁve banks: three UK banks, one American bank,  
and one European bank. The Group was utilising 42% of the  
£100 million Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility at 31 December 
2012. In 2011 the Group drew down US$50 million from a private 
placement shelf facility with repayment due in May 2017. 94 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Credit risk     
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to meet its 
obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risk on ﬁnancial  
assets such as trade receivables, cash balances and derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit 
risk is represented by the carrying amount of each ﬁnancial  
asset, including derivative ﬁnancial instruments, in the  
Group Balance Sheet.
a) Trade receivables 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade 
receivables. Trade receivables are subject to credit limits, and 
control and approval procedures in the operating companies.  
Due to its large geographic base and number of customers,  
the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit  
risk on its trade receivables.
b) Cash balances and derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
Credit risk associated with cash balances is managed by 
transacting with a number of major ﬁnancial institutions worldwide 
and periodically reviewing their credit worthiness. Transactions 
involving derivative ﬁnancial instruments are managed centrally. 
These are only with banks that are part of the Group’s £100 million 
Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement. Accordingly, 
the Group’s associated credit risk is limited. The Group has no 
signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
This is a summary of the derivative ﬁnancial instruments  
that the Group holds and uses to manage risk. The value  
of these derivatives change over time in response to 
underlying variables such as exchange rates and are  
carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value.    
 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined 
by estimating the market value of that contract at the 
reporting date. Derivatives with a positive fair value are 
recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities, 
and presented as current or non-current based on their 
contracted maturity dates.
Accounting policies 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
In accordance with Board approved policies, the Group  
uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposure to 
ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange rates arising from operational 
activities. It does not hold or use derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
for trading or speculative purposes.
Cash ﬂow hedge accounting 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are used to hedge the variability in 
cash ﬂows of highly probable forecast transactions or a recognised 
asset or liability, caused by changes in exchange rates.
Where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is designated in a cash  
ﬂow hedge relationship with a highly probable forecast transaction, 
the effective part of any gain or loss arising is recognised in the 
Cash ﬂow hedging reserve within Equity, via the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is 
recognised in the Income Statement within net ﬁnance expense. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently occurs and results 
in the recognition of a ﬁnancial asset or liability that impacts on 
the Income Statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss 
is removed from the hedging reserve and presented within the 
Income Statement.
If a hedging instrument expires or is sold but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance 
with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a derivative is used to hedge economically the foreign 
exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability,  
no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised in the Income Statement.
If a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is not formally designated 
in a cash ﬂow hedge relationship, any change in fair value is 
recognised in the Income Statement. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 95
Forward exchange contracts 
The following table shows the forward exchange contracts in place at the Balance Sheet date. These contracts mature in the next twenty 
four months, therefore the cash ﬂows and resulting effect on proﬁt and loss are expected to occur within the next twenty four months.
       As at 31 Average As at 31 Average 
       December exchange December exchange 
        2012 rate of 2011 rate of 
      Currency millions contracts millions contracts
Cash flow hedging contracts     
USD / GBP forward exchange contracts      USD 17.3 1.57 11.4 1.58
USD / EUR forward exchange contracts      USD 61.2 1.29 30.9 1.38
USD / RMB forward exchange contracts      USD 3.0 6.4  -  -
EUR / GBP forward exchange contracts      EUR 18.4 1.21 9.3 1.15
JPY / GBP forward exchange contracts      JPY 361.1 123 245.0 123
JPY / EUR forward exchange contracts      JPY 491.0 101 347.0 109
A net loss of £0.8 million (2011: £1.1 million gain) relating to fair value instruments that crystalised during the year was charged to the 
Income Statement. 
Fair value hierarchy
The following summarises ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair values and the major methods and assumptions used in  
estimating these fair values.
The different levels of fair value hierarchy have been deﬁned as follows:     
Level 1 
Fair value measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   
Level 2 
Fair values measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).     
Level 3
Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 
The table below shows the carrying values and fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities.
       Carrying  Carrying  
       value Fair value value Fair value 
       2012 2012 2011 2011 
       £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts - Assets        2.4  2.4  0.3  0.3
Forward exchange contracts - Liabilities        (0.1)  (0.1)  (1.6) (1.6)
Cash at bank and in hand        10.0  10.0  6.9  6.9
Net trade receivables        38.2  38.2  38.7  38.7
Trade payables        (22.4)  (22.4)  (29.7) (29.7)
Fixed rate borrowings        (30.8)  (32.7)  (32.2) (34.6)
Floating rate borrowings        (42.9)  (42.9)  (25.1)  (25.1)
          (45.6)  (47.5)  (42.7) (45.1)
The fair value of ﬂoating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at ﬂoating rates where payments 
are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.     
The fair value of ﬁxed rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash ﬂow, using appropriate yield curves,  
to the net present values.     
All ﬁnancial instruments are deemed Level 2. 96 The Vitec Group plc
Section 4 – Capital structure
 4.2 Financial instruments
Interest rate proﬁle 
The table below analyses the Group’s interest rate exposure arising from bank loans by currency.
Accounting policies 
Net investment hedge accounting     
The Group uses Yen, US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Group’s net 
investment in overseas companies.      
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, 
the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the translation reserve within Equity, via the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income. The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Income Statement.  
The effective portion will be recycled into the Income Statement on the sale of the foreign operation.    
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     
The table below analyses the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, by currency.
         Fixed rate  Floating rate 
         Total borrowings borrowings 
        £m £m £m
Yen         2.1  -  2.1
US Dollar         39.4  30.8  8.6
Euro         20.2  -  20.2
Sterling         12.0  -  12.0
At 31 December 2012         73.7  30.8  42.9
Yen         2.5  -  2.5
US Dollar         38.0  32.2  5.8
Euro         4.1  -  4.1
Sterling         12.7  -  12.7
At 31 December 2011         57.3  32.2  25.1
The ﬂoating rate borrowings comprise borrowings bearing interest at rates based on LIBOR. The ﬁxed rate borrowings are due for 
repayment on 11 May 2017.     
      Annual Report & Accounts 2012 97
Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities     
The table below analyses the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities and derivative ﬁnancial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash ﬂows (including interest), so will not always reconcile with the carrying amounts disclosed on the 
Balance Sheet.
The following are the contractual maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities, including undiscounted future interest payments.
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
       amount cash flows one year years years 
2012      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans/overdrafts       (73.7)  (84.4)  (2.9)  (81.5)  -
Trade payables       (22.4)  (22.3)  (22.3)  -  -
Forward exchange contracts       (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  -  -
         (96.2)  (106.8)  (25.3)  (81.5)  -
       Total  From one From five 
      Carrying contractual Within to five to ten 
      amount cash flows one year years years 
2011      £m £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans/overdrafts       (57.3)  (66.1)  (2.6)  (30.8) (32.7)
Trade payables       (29.7)  (29.7)  (29.7)  -  -
Forward exchange contracts       (1.6)  (1.6)  (1.6)  -  -
         (88.6)  (97.4)  (33.9)  (30.8) (32.7)
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the year:
         2012 2011 
Expiring in:         £m £m
Less than one year     
  - Uncommitted facilities           25.4  6.8
More than one year but not more than two years     
  - Uncommitted facilities           -  16.0
More than one year but not more than five years     
  - Committed facilities           57.8  75.5
Total          83.2  98.3 98 The Vitec Group plc
4.3 Share capital and reserves
This note explains the movements in Share Capital, and the nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of Equity. 
The movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.    
The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its employee remuneration packages. Options that have been granted 
and remain outstanding at 31 December 2012 are set out below. The various share-based payment schemes are explained 
in note 5.3 “Share-based payments” .
Share capital
          Nominal 
         Number of value 
         shares £m
Issued and fully paid    
At 1 January 2012         43,255,518  8.7
Exercise of share options         435,450  0.1
At 31 December 2012         43,690,968  8.8
Each ordinary share carries one vote, participates equally with the other ordinary shares in distribution of dividends and capital (including 
on a winding up) and is not redeemable. 
At 31 December 2012 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding under the Company’s share option schemes:
          Dates 
        Number Exercise normally 
        of shares prices  exercisable
UK Sharesave schemes         426,971  131p-543p   2013-2017 
International Sharesave schemes         460,966  131p-577p   2013-2017 
Executive Unapproved schemes         62,421  298p-525p   2013-2018 
           950,358 
Other Reserves   
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of Equity are as follows:   
Translation reserve   
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements  
of foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.   
Cash ﬂow hedging reserve   
This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as  
effective cash ﬂow hedge relationships.   
Own shares held   
Own shares held by the Company’s Employee Beneﬁt Trust are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. As at 31 December 
2012 the Company’s Employee Beneﬁt Trust held 461,086 ordinary shares.
Dividends    
After the Balance Sheet date the following ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 was recommended by the Directors and, 
subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 15 May 2013, will be paid on 17 May 2013. The dividend has not been provided for 
at the year end and there are no tax consequences.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
13.5p per ordinary share (2011: 12.5p per ordinary share)        5.9  5.4
Section 4 – Capital structure Annual Report & Accounts 2012 99
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
This section explains items that are not explained elsewhere in the ﬁnancial statements.  
5.1 Employees
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Employee costs, including Directors’ remuneration, comprise:   
Wages and salaries          77.9  77.3
Employers’ social security costs          11.6  11.2
Employers’ pension costs - defined benefit schemes         1.0  0.9
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes        1.4  1.2
Other employment benefits          3.2  3.0
Share-based payment charge          1.8  1.2
            96.9  94.8
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Average number of employees during the year   
Videocom          920  834
Imaging          960  1,020
Services          183  178
Head Office          22  20
            2,085  2,052 100 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
5.2 Pensions
This note explains the accounting policies governing the Group’s treatment of the pension schemes, followed by an 
analysis of these schemes.
Accounting policies        
Deﬁned contribution schemes        
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The costs of providing pensions for 
employees under deﬁned contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes 
The Group operates pension schemes providing beneﬁts based on ﬁnal pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Group. The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is calculated separately for each plan 
by estimating the amount of future beneﬁt that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. That 
beneﬁt is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is determined  
by reference to market yields at the Balance Sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.      
  
The calculation is performed by a qualiﬁed actuary using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in 
full in the period in which they arise in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.       
 
The Group recognises the on-going service cost in the Income Statement as part of operating proﬁt. The Group recognises the 
unwinding of the discount (above) and the return on plan assets in the Income Statement as part of net ﬁnancial expense. Past-service 
costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees 
remaining in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period. Any cost or income relating to the curtailment or settlement of a pension scheme is recognised 
immediately in the Income Statement.
Pension schemes        
The Group has deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the UK, Italy, Germany, Japan, Israel and France. The UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme 
was closed to future beneﬁt accrual with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Group are now offered membership of the 
deﬁned contribution pension scheme. Other overseas subsidiaries have their own deﬁned contribution schemes. 
Deﬁned contribution schemes        
The total Income Statement charge of the deﬁned contribution schemes for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £1.4 million  
(2011: £1.2 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2012 (or at 31 December 2011).
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes        
The Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are disclosed below.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised on the Group Balance Sheet 
Plan assets        
  - Equities           21.4  18.9
  - Bonds           24.9  27.2
  - Other           2.7  2.8
Total fair value of plan assets          49.0  48.9
Present value of defined benefit obligation          (58.4) (53.8)
Net deficit recognised in the Group Balance Sheet         (9.4)  (4.9)
      Annual Report & Accounts 2012 101
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Analysis of net recognised deﬁcit 
Total funded plan (UK Pension scheme)          (4.8) (0.4)
Total unfunded plans (non-UK Pension schemes)         (4.6) (4.5)
Liability recognised on the Group Balance Sheet         (9.4) (4.9)
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
  - Current service cost          1.2  1.1
  - Past service gain          (0.2) (0.2)
Included in operating costs          1.0  0.9
  - Expected return on plan assets          (2.2) (2.8)
  - Interest cost          2.4  2.7
Included in financial expense          0.2 (0.1)
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         1.2  0.8
      2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Movements since 2008 on defined benefit schemes 
Plan assets       49.0  48.9  44.6  41.0  34.8
Defined benefit obligation       (58.4)  (53.8)  (51.6)  (52.0) (40.7)
Total deficit       (9.4)  (4.9)  (7.0)  (11.0) (5.9)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain       (4.8)  1.0  0.2  (6.1) (1.8)
UK pension scheme        
The UK pension scheme, being signiﬁcant, is disclosed below.        
The nature of the UK scheme is a funded ﬁnal salary scheme, closed to new entrants at the end of 2003 and closed to future beneﬁt 
accrual with effect from 31 July 2010.
       2012 2011  2010 2009 2008 
      % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Assumptions used by the actuary to value the liability of the defined benefit plan,  
on 31 December were:
Price inflation (RPI)       2.8  2.9  3.5  3.6  2.8
Price inflation (CPI)       2.1  1.9  2.8  n/a   n/a 
Expected rate of salary increases
 (1)
       n/a   n/a   n/a   5.1  4.3
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
 (2) 
       
  - Discretionary (pre - 6 April 1997 accrual in excess of GMP)     2.7  2.8  3.4   3.6  2.8
  - Guaranteed LPI 5% (6 April 1997 - 30 June 2008)      2.7  2.8  3.4   3.6  2.8
  - Guaranteed LPI 2.5% (accrual from 1 July 2008)      2.4  2.4  2.5   2.5  2.5
Rate of increase for deferred pensions       2.1  1.9  2.8  3.6  2.8
Discount rate       4.4  4.7  5.5  5.7  6.3
(1)
 These exclude an age-related allowance for promotional and merit awards.
(2)
 In addition, we have made allowance for the special pension increase guarantees applying to certain executive members of the Scheme. 102 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
 5.2 Pensions
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the Balance Sheet date are based on standard actuarial 
mortality tables and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The assumptions are equivalent to expected longevity  
at age 65 for members in normal health approximately as follows:   
 - Pensioners currently aged 65: ranging from 21.9 years to 24.5 years        
  - Non-pensioners currently aged 45: ranging from 23.8 years to 26.3 years
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of present value of Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligation (DBO) for the year to 31 December 
Present value of DBO at start of year          49.3  46.9
Interest cost          2.3  2.5
Actuarial loss on change of assumptions          3.6  1.4
Experience loss          0.3  0.3
Actual benefit payments and expenses          (1.6) (1.7)
Past service costs          (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of DBO at end of year          53.8  49.3 
     
         Expected Expected 
         long-term long-term 
        Fair Fair rate of rate of 
       value value return return 
       2012 2011  2012 2011 
       £m £m % pa % pa
Scheme assets and expected rate of return at 31 December 
Equities        21.4  18.9  7.2  7.5 
Bonds        24.9  27.2  3.2  3.4 
Property        2.0  2.1  6.7  6.5
Cash/non-cash assets        -  - 2.3  2.5
Insurance policies        0.7  0.7 4.4  4.7 
Total value of assets        49.0  48.9  
Note: The asset values shown are, where relevant, estimated bid values of market securities.
The rates of return quoted are based on actual market yields for bonds. The assumed rates of return on other asset classes where 
market rates of return are not readily available – including, most importantly, equities – are based on the central ten year median return 
assumptions. We have assumed for this purpose that returns on overseas equities will be the same as on UK equities. 
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year to 31 December 
Fair value of assets at start of year          48.9  44.6
Expected return on assets           2.2  2.8
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets          (0.5)  2.6
Group contributions          -  0.6
Actual benefit payments          (1.4) (1.4)
Administration expenses paid          (0.2) (0.3)
Fair value of assets at end of year          49.0  48.9 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 103
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Return on assets for the year to 31 December 
Expected return on assets           2.2  2.8
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets          (0.5)  2.6
Actual return on assets          1.7  5.4 
     
         2012 2011 
          £m £m
Reconciliation of funded status at 31 December 
Present value of defined benefit obligation          (53.8) (49.3)
Assets at fair value           49.0  48.9
Defined benefit liability          (4.8) (0.4) 
     
         2012 2011 
          £m £m
Reconciliation of change in funded status for the year to 31 December 
Defined benefit liability at start of year           (0.4) (2.3)
Total pension income          -  0.4
Employer contributions actually paid          -  0.6
(Loss)/gain recognised in SOCIE          (4.4)  0.9
Defined benefit liability at end of year          (4.8) (0.4) 
     
         2012 2011 
          £m £m
Amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement
Included in operating costs - Past service costs         (0.1) (0.1)
  - Expected return on plan assets          (2.2) (2.8)
  - Interest cost          2.3  2.5
Included in financial expense          0.1 (0.3)
Total amounts charged to the Income Statement         - (0.4) 
     
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Amounts recognised in the SOCIE
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in SOCIE during the period        (4.4)  0.9
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised at beginning of period        (1.9) (2.8)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised at end of period         (6.3) (1.9)  104 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
5.3 Share-based payments
Group employees participate in a number of employee incentive schemes including a Sharesave Scheme, an Unapproved 
Share Option Plan, a Long Term Incentive Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan.     
This note explains the accounting policy governing share-based payments and the impact of various share schemes 
operated by the Group.
Accounting policies        
Share-based payments        
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. The fair value of the equity-settled employee share option grants  
is calculated at grant date and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reﬂect expected and actual levels of options that will vest, except where 
forfeiture arises from share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.     
The fair values of options are calculated using Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo simulation models. Vesting conditions are limited to  
non-market based conditions such as service conditions and performance conditions (adjusted earnings per share targets).
Any potential employer’s Social Security liability on options granted is calculated based on the estimated fair value of the options  
and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the schemes.     
Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisﬁed by market purchase or issue of new shares. Shares purchased  
in the market are held in the Company’s Employee Beneﬁt Trust.     
A description of each type of share-based payment arrangement that existed at any time during the period, including the general  
terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options granted, and the method  
of settlement (for example whether in cash or equity) is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payments expense        
The amount recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with employees for the year ended  
31 December 2012 was £2.0 million (2011: £1.2 million), of which £0.2 million (2011: £nil) related to employers’ tax liability. 
The outstanding employers’ tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for UK awards was £0.5 million (2011: £0.8 million)  
and for non-UK awards £0.1 million (2011: £0.4 million).
Share options outstanding at the end of the period        
Options outstanding under the 2002 UK Sharesave Scheme, 2002 International Sharesave Plan, 2011 UK Sharesave Scheme,  
2011 International Sharesave Plan and Unapproved Share Option Plan (“USOP”) as at 31 December 2012, together with their  
exercise prices and vesting periods, are as follows:
          Weighted 
         Weighted average 
         average remaining 
        Number exercise contractual 
Range of exercise prices        outstanding price (£) life (years) 
£1.30 - £1.40          191,490  1.32  2
£2.91 - £3.00          59,421  3.00  2
£3.01 - £4.00          185,636  3.48  1
£4.51 - £5.00          83,166  4.72  2
£5.01 - £5.50          240,282  5.39  3
£5.51 - £6.00          191,907  5.77  3
Total          951,902  4.07  2  Annual Report & Accounts 2012 105
Options granted, exercised and lapsed during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2012 under these share options plans were  
as follows:
        Weighted  Weighted 
         average  average 
        Exercise   Exercise 
       Sharesave Price (£) USOP Price (£)
Awards at 31 December 2010        1,481,571  1.76  248,775  4.32
Exercised during 2011        (89,928)  2.61  (8,000)  2.98
Lapsed during 2011        (115,055)  2.31  (131,117)  5.12
Granted during 2011        129,158  4.81  -  -
Awards at 31 December 2011        1,405,746  1.97  109,658  3.46
Exercised during 2012        (878,490)  1.38  (47,237)  4.04
Lapsed during 2012        (53,137)  3.46  -  -
Granted during 2012        415,362  5.59  -  -
Awards at 31 December 2012        889,481  4.14  62,421  3.03
Awards exercisable at 31 December 2012       -  -  62,421  3.03 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £6.49 (2011: £5.70).
  2011 2011 UK and 2011 UK and 2005 2005 
  International International International Long Term Deferred 
  Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Incentive Bonus 
Arrangement  Plan 2 Year Scheme 3 Year Scheme 5 Year Plan Plan
Nature of arrangement  “Save as you  “Save as you “Save as you  Share award  Share award 
    earn scheme”   earn scheme” earn scheme”   plan  plan 
Date of grant 26 Sep 2012 26 Sep 2012 26 Sep 2012 16 Apr 2012 12 Apr 2012
Number of instruments granted  195,065  197,289  23,008  531,708  42,295
Exercise price £5.77 £5.43 £5.43  n/a   n/a 
Share price at date of grant £7.12 £7.12 £7.12 £6.74 £6.72
Contractual life (yrs)  2.3  3.6  5.6  4.0  4.0
Expected option life (yrs)  2.3  3.3  5.3  4.0  4.0 
         Relative TSR 
        Relative TSR performance against 
       performance against comparator group, 
    2 year service 3 year service 5 year service comparator group,  and adjusted 
    period and savings period and savings period and savings and adjusted EPS growth for 
Vesting conditions requirement requirement requirement EPS growth matching awards
Settlement   Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares    Shares 
Expected volatility
 (1)
  30.5%  30.5%  30.5%  35.8%  35.8%
Risk free interest rate  0.18%  0.28%  0.68%  n/a  n/a
Expected dividend yield  3.10%  3.10%  3.10%  n/a  n/a
Expected departures  
(per annum from grant date)  5%  5%  5%  10%  15%
Expected outcome of  
non-market based related  
performance condition   n/a    n/a    n/a   100%  100%
Fair value per granted  
instrument determined  
at the grant date  £1.59  £1.86  £1.97 £6.74/£3.84
 (2)
  £6.72/£3.80
 (2)
Valuation model Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Monte Carlo
 (3)
 Monte Carlo
 (3)
(1)
  The expected volatility is based on historical volatility determined by the analysis of daily share prices over a period commensurate with the expected lifetime  
of the award and ending on the date of grant of the award. Due to signiﬁcant ﬂuctuations in Vitec’s share price during the year a uniform rate has been used  
for all the Sharesave options as a reasonable estimate of volatility going-forward.
(2)
  The ﬁrst ﬁgure represents fair value of awards subject to adjusted EPS growth criteria and the second ﬁgure represents fair value of awards subject to TSR criteria.
(3)
  For the 2005 LTIP and 2005 DBP Matching awards, a Monte-Carlo simulation has been used. Under this valuation method, the share price for Vitec is projected 
at the end of the performance period as the TSR for Vitec and the companies in the comparator group. Based on these projections, the number of awards that 
will vest is determined. Thousands of simulations are run and the fair value of the award is calculated as the product of the vesting probability and the share price 
at the date of grant. 106 The Vitec Group plc
Section 5 – Other supporting notes
5.4 Leases
Operating leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise ofﬁces, warehouses and factory 
facilities. None of the leases include contingent rentals.
Accounting policies        
Leases        
Operating leases are those which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the rentals of which 
are charges to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
     Land and  Total Land and  Total 
     buildings Other  2012 buildings Other 2011 
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year      0.7  0.2  0.9  0.8  0.2  1.0
Expiring two to five years      9.5  1.0  10.5  12.6  1.0  13.6
Expiring after five years      10.2  -  10.2  8.5  -  8.5
        20.4  1.2  21.6  21.9  1.2  23.1
During the year £5.9 million (2011: £6.0 million) was recognised in the Income Statement in respect of operating lease payments. Annual Report & Accounts 2012 107
5.5 Related party transactions
A related party relationship is based on the ability of one party to control or signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the other.
The Group has identiﬁed the Board, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of the Operations Executive  
as related parties to the Company under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Transactions with key management personnel    
Details of Directors’ remuneration along with their pension, share incentive and bonus arrangements are shown in the  
Remuneration Report. Holdings of the Company’s ordinary shares by Directors are shown in the Directors’ Report.  
The compensation of the ten (2011: ten) members of the Operations Executive, including the Executive Directors, is shown  
in the table below. Two members of the Operations Executive ceased to be members on 31 July 2012 and one ceased to be  
a member on 31 December 2012.
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Salaries          2.1  1.9
Performance-related bonuses         1.5   1.5
Share-based payment charge
 (1)
          1.1  0.7
Other short-term employee benefits           0.2  0.2
Post employment benefits          0.3  0.2
(1)
  IFRS 2 charge recognised in the Income Statement for share-based payment transactions with members of the Operations Executive.  108 The Vitec Group plc
5.6 Principal Group investments
The Group’s principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2012 are listed below. All subsidiaries are 100% owned within the Group.
        Country of incorporation
Vitec Group US Holdings Inc           USA 
Vitec Group Holdings Limited
 (1)
           Guernsey 
Vitec Investments Limited           UK 
Videocom  
ALC Broadcast Limited           UK 
Anton/Bauer Inc           USA 
Vitec Videocom Limited
 (1) (2)
           UK 
Vitec Videocom Limitada
 (3)
           Costa Rica 
Vitec Videocom Inc
 (4)
           USA 
Litepanels Inc           USA 
Integrated Microwave Technologies Inc           USA 
Haigh-Farr, Inc           USA 
Camera Corps Ltd           UK 
Imaging   
Manfrotto Distribution Inc           USA 
Manfrotto Distribution Limited
 (1)
           UK 
Manfrotto Distribution KK           Japan 
Vitecgroup Italia SpA           Italy 
Gitzo S.A.           France 
Manfrotto Lighting Limited
 (5)
            UK 
Manfrotto Bags Ltd           Israel 
Services   
Vitec Broadcast Services Inc           USA
(1)
  Indicates companies directly owned by the parent company.
(2)
  Formerly called Camara Dynamics Limited - name changed with effect from 3 January 2012.
(3)
  Formerly called Camara Dynamics Limitada - name changed with effect from 3 January 2012.
(4)
  Formerly called Camara Dynamics Inc - name changed with effect from 3 January 2012.
(5)
  Formerly called Lastolite Limited - name changed with effect from 3 January 2012.   
Exemption has been taken under section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 to list all the subsidiary undertakings of the Group. A full list of 
related subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Company’s next annual return ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies.
5.7 Subsequent events
There were no events after the Balance Sheet date that require disclosure.
Section 5 – Other supporting notes Annual Report & Accounts 2012 109
         2012 2011 
        Notes £m £m
Fixed assets    
Tangible fixed assets         f)   1.6  1.6
Investments in subsidiary undertakings         g)   389.1  308.4
            390.7  310.0
Current assets   
Debtors         h)   7.0  3.8
Cash at bank and in hand          11.9  -
            18.9  3.8
Liabilities falling due within one year   
Creditors          i)   (14.8) (19.5)
Provisions         j)   (0.2) (0.2)
            (15.0) (19.7)
Net current assets/(liabilities)          3.9 (15.9)
Total assets less current liabilities          394.6  294.1
Liabilities falling due after one year   
Creditors         i)   (103.0) (103.0)
Provisions         j)   (0.4) (0.6)
            (103.4) (103.6)
Net assets          291.2  190.5
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital         k)   8.8  8.7
Share premium account         l)   10.4  9.8
Revaluation reserve         l)   0.9  0.9
Merger and other reserves         l)   55.3  55.3
Profit and loss account         l)   215.8  115.8
Equity shareholders’ funds          291.2  190.5 
Approved by the Board on 27 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by:    
Paul Hayes 
Group Finance Director
The Vitec Group plc 
Registered in England and Wales no. 227691
Company Balance Sheet  
 As at 31 December 2012 110 The Vitec Group plc
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Profit for the financial year           112.1  4.7
Dividends paid           (9.1) (8.2)
Retained profit for the year           103.0 (3.5)
Own shares purchased           (4.8) (2.8)
Share-based payment charge           1.8  1.2
New shares issued           0.7  0.3
Net increase in shareholders’ funds           100.7 (4.8)
Opening shareholders’ funds          190.5  195.3
Closing shareholders’ funds          291.2  190.5
Reconciliation of Movements  
in Shareholders’ Funds  
 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 111
a) Basis of preparation
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). 
Under section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own proﬁt and  
loss account.
Under FRS 1 (revised) the Company is exempt from the requirement to present a cash ﬂow statement on the grounds that its cash  
ﬂows are included in the Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own ﬁnancial instruments disclosures, on the grounds  
that it is included in publicly available consolidated ﬁnancial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent  
to that standard. 
Under FRS 8 the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries which 
form part of the Group.
b) Accounting policies  
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the ﬁnancial statements.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on that day. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are 
translated at the year-end exchange rate. Where there is a movement in the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the 
year-end, a currency translation gain or loss may arise. Any such differences are recognised in the Proﬁt and Loss account.
Fixed assets and depreciation 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost or valuation of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight  
line basis over their estimated useful lives. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other ﬁxed assets are depreciated as follows: 
Freehold buildings       up to 50 years
Leasehold improvements      over the remaining period of the lease
Motor vehicles       3 to 4 years
Equipment, ﬁxtures & ﬁttings     3 to 10 years
Fixed assets are stated at cost except that, as allowed under FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, on adoption of that standard in the year 
ending 31 December 2000 when the book amounts of revalued land and buildings were retained. These book values are based on the 
previous revaluation on 31 March 1989 and have not been subsequently revalued. 
Fixed asset investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. A list of principal subsidiaries directly 
owned by the Company is contained within note 5.6 “Principal Group investments” of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Leases 
Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the Proﬁt and Loss account on a straight line basis. 
Pensions 
The Company participates in the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt scheme operated in the UK, which was closed to future beneﬁt accrual  
with effect from 31 July 2010. All UK employees of the Company are now offered membership of the deﬁned contribution scheme.  
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the  
Group deﬁned beneﬁt scheme’s underlying assets and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as a deﬁned contribution scheme.  
The amounts charged against proﬁts represent contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period. 
Further details of the UK pension scheme are disclosed in note 5.2 “Pensions” of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based incentive schemes. Further details are disclosed in note 5.3 “Share-based payments”  
of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment. 
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements 112 The Vitec Group plc
c) Employees          
         2012 2011 
Employee costs comprise:          £m £m
Wages and salaries          3.2  3.0
Employers’ social security costs           0.3  0.2
Employers’ pension costs - defined contribution schemes         0.1  0.1
Share-based payment charge
 (1) 
          1.8  1.2
            5.4  4.5 
(1) 
Share-based payment charge represents the Group total.
         2012 2011
Average number of employees during the year        22 20
Further details of Directors’ remuneration and share incentives are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
d) Audit fees 
The audit fee in respect of the parent Company was £0.1 million.
Further details of the Group audit fee are disclosed in note 2.1 “Proﬁt before tax” of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
e) Dividends        
         2012 2011 
The aggregate amount of dividends comprises:        £m £m
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year      5.4 4.8 
Interim dividend paid in respect of the current year        3.7  3.4
            9.1 8.2 
A ﬁnal dividend of 13.5 pence per ordinary share has been recommended by the Board.
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2012 113
f) Tangible ﬁxed assets            
        Freehold  Equipment, 
        land and Leasehold fixtures and 
       Total buildings buildings fittings 
       £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation    
At 1 January 2012         3.1  2.6  0.4  0.1
Additions         0.1  -  0.1  -
Disposals         -  -  -  -
At 31 December 2012         3.2  2.6  0.5  0.1
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2012         1.5  1.4  -  0.1
Charge for the year         0.1  -  0.1  -
Disposals         -  -  -  -
At 31 December 2012         1.6  1.4  0.1  0.1
Net book value     
At 1 January 2012         1.6  1.2  0.4  -
At 31 December 2012         1.6  1.2  0.4  - 
Freehold land and buildings disclosed at a revalued net book value of £1.2 million would have been stated under historical cost  
at £0.7 million and a net book value of £nil.     
The revalued amount of the land and buildings has been retained as allowed for by the transitional provisions set out in FRS 15  
‘Tangible Fixed Assets’.   
The Company has the following commitments during the following year, under non-cancellable operating leases:
         Land and buildings
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Expiring in two to five years         0.3 0.2
g) Investments in subsidiary undertakings   
         Investment  
         in other  
        Total shares Loans 
        £m £m £m
Cost and net book value 
At 1 January 2012          308.4  204.9  103.5
Additions          253.1  253.1  -
Disposals          (129.3)  (129.3)  -
Loan reductions          (42.5)  - (42.5)
At 31 December 2012          389.7  328.7  61.0
Provisions     
At 1 January 2012          -  -  -
Additions          0.6  0.6  -
At 31 December 2012          0.6  0.6  -
Net book value     
At 1 January 2012          308.4  204.9  103.5
At 31 December 2012          389.1  328.1  61.0 
The additions, disposals and loan reductions in investments during the year reﬂect the Company’s restructuring of certain subsidiary 
holding and ﬁnancing companies. 114 The Vitec Group plc
h) Debtors           
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amount owed by subsidiary undertakings           2.6  1.6
Other debtors           1.8  0.7
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts         2.4  1.3
Prepayments and accrued income           0.2  0.2
           7.0  3.8
i) Creditors           
         2012 2011 
         £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Bank overdraft (unsecured)           -  9.2
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings           9.2  5.2
Derivative financial instruments - forward exchange contracts         2.4  1.3
Other creditors           1.8  0.7
Accruals and deferred income           1.4  3.1
            14.8  19.5
Amount falling due after more than one year     
Bank loans (unsecured)           73.0  56.6
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertaking           30.0  46.4
            103.0  103.0 
Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2012 (2011: £nil).
j) Provisions            
          Onerous 
          lease 
          £m
At 1 January 2012           0.8
Charged to the Profit and Loss          (0.2)
At 31 December 2012           0.6
Due within one year           0.2
Due after more than one year           0.4
             0.6 
The onerous lease contracts provision is in relation to non-cancellable leases on vacant property that the Company entered into in 
previous years. Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the lease or earlier if exited.
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2012 115
k) Share capital      
         Number of Nominal 
         shares  value £m
Issued and fully paid     
At 1 January 2012           43,255,518  8.7
Exercise of share options           435,450  0.1
At 31 December 2012           43,690,968  8.8 
Details of share-based payments and share options are stated in note 5.3 “Share-based payments” of the Group’s consolidated  
ﬁnancial statements.
l) Reserves      
       Share  Merger Profit 
       premium Revaluation  and other and loss 
       account reserve  reserves account 
       £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012         9.8  0.9  55.3  115.8
Dividends paid         -  -  - (9.1)
Own shares purchased         -  -  - (4.8)
Share-based payment charge         -  -  -  1.8
New shares issued         0.6  -  -  -
Profit for the year         -  -  -  112.1
At 31 December 2012         10.4  0.9  55.3  215.8 
Other reserves represents the capitalisation of the share premium account, £22.7 million in 1989 and £37.3 million in 1995,  
less £16.0 million of share repurchases in 1995.
m) Related party transactions 
The Company has identiﬁed a related party relationship with its Board, the Vitec Group Pension Scheme and members of the Operations 
Executive as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and note 5.5 “Related party transactions” of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements. There are no other related party transactions to disclose.
n) Post Balance Sheet events 
The ﬁnancial statements were authorised for issue by the Board on 27 February 2013. There were no events after the Balance Sheet  
date that require disclosure. 116 The Vitec Group plc
      2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
      £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue       345.3  351.0  309.6  315.1  337.7
Operating profit
 (1)
       39.3  34.5  27.7  24.5  38.4
Net interest on interest-bearing loans and borrowings       (3.2)  (1.9)  (1.2)  (1.6) (3.1)
Other financial income / (expense)        0.1  0.4  0.2  (0.2)  0.1
Profit before tax
 (2)
       36.2  33.0  26.7  22.7  35.4
Cash generated from operating activities        38.4  39.1  34.6  42.8  44.3
Net interest paid        (3.1)  (1.8)  (1.2)  (2.1) (3.6)
Tax paid        (10.8)  (11.1)  (0.9)  (4.3) (6.7)
Operating cash flow        24.5  26.2  32.5  36.4  34.0
Net capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets     (13.7)  (9.7)  (14.5)  (13.7) (15.0)
Free cash flow
 (3)
       10.8  16.5  18.0  22.7  19.0
Capital employed      
Intangible fixed assets        68.2  75.0  51.8  58.2  71.6
Tangible fixed assets        48.6  50.1  53.4  54.6  63.6
Other net assets        48.3  39.5  27.0  21.9  34.9
         165.1 164.6  132.2  134.7  170.1
Financed by      
Shareholders’ funds - equity        114.6  129.3  124.3  111.2  133.4
Net debt        63.7  50.4  28.1  40.6  53.0
Deferred tax        (13.2)  (15.1)  (20.2)  (17.1) (16.3)
         165.1  164.6  132.2  134.7  170.1
Statistics      
Operating profit (%)
 (1)
       11.4  9.8  8.9  7.8  11.4
Effective tax rate (%)
 (1)
       32.9  32.7  33.0  31.7  33.9
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)
 (4)
       55.8  51.4  41.9  36.5  55.9
Basic earnings per share (pence)        13.6  34.7  42.8  7.5  48.0
Dividends per share (pence)        22.0  20.5  19.0  18.3  18.3
Year-end mid-market share price (pence)        635.3  555.7  585.0  389.0  235.5
(1)
  Before charges associated with acquired businesses in 2012 and 2011; and before signiﬁcant items in 2010, 2009 and 2008.
(2)
  Before charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business in 2012 and 2011; and before signiﬁcant items in 2010, 2009 and 2008.
(3)
  Free cash ﬂow is the cash generated from operations less interest, tax and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  
excluding goodwill.     
(4)
  Differences between adjusted basic and basic earnings per share arise from charges associated with acquired businesses and disposal of business  
in the years in question.
Five Year Financial Summary 
 Years ended 31 December Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Shareholder enquiries
For enquiries about your shareholding, such as dividends  
or lost share certiﬁcate(s), please contact the Company’s 
registrars: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Telephone 0871 664 0300  
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras.  
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday)  
or if calling from overseas +44 (0)20 8639 3399.
Dividend reinvestment plan
The Company, in conjunction with Capita Registrars, offers  
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan that enables shareholders to  
reinvest cash dividends into additional shares in the Company.  
For shareholders to apply the Final Dividend for the year ended  
31 December 2012 to the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, application 
forms must be received by the Registrars by no later than Monday, 
22 April 2013. Details on the Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be 
obtained from Capita Registrars using the contact details above. 
Alternatively you can email them at shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Online services and electronic voting
The Company has arranged with Capita Registrars for shareholders 
to use its online services. By logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com 
and selecting Portal (Shareholders) you can make a transaction or 
dividend payment enquiry, add or change a dividend mandate or 
change your registered address.
The Company will again be making use of Capita Registrars’ 
electronic voting facility. By logging on to  
www.capitashareportal.com and selecting The Vitec Group plc 
you will ﬁnd details of the 2013 Annual General Meeting, including 
the venue and text of resolutions. Shareholders have the facility to 
vote for, against or withhold the resolutions and can split or restrict 
votes, appoint the Chairman of the meeting or a third party as their 
proxy and include any instruction text. Shareholders who hold 
their shares through CREST may use the CREST voting facility 
as provided by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited. To use the above 
facilities, shareholders will need to input a unique User ID that can 
be applied for on your ﬁrst visit to the site. To be allocated a User 
ID you will need your Investor Code, which can be found on your 
dividend stationery and share certiﬁcates. User IDs previously 
issued will still be valid.
Should you experience any difﬁculties using these facilities,  
please contact the Capita Registrars helpline on the numbers 
given above.
International dividend payment service
Overseas shareholders may wish to consider electing to receive 
their dividends in a local currency instead of in Sterling. Details of 
this facility can be obtained from Capita Registrars either by calling 
+44 (0)20 8639 3399 (lines are open from 9.00am to 5.30pm 
Monday to Friday. Calls will be charged at standard overseas rates) 
or by visiting www.capitaregistrars.com/international/. Any election 
to receive dividends in local currency in respect of the Final Dividend 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 payable on Friday, 17 May 
2013 must be received by Capita Registrars no later than the  
record date for the ﬁnal dividend, Friday, 19 April 2013.
Share price information
The middle market price of a share of The Vitec Group plc  
on 31 December 2012 was 635.25 pence. During the year,  
the share price ﬂuctuated between 547 pence and 740 pence. 
The Company’s share price is available from the Group’s website, 
www.vitecgroup.com, with a 15-minute delay, and from the 
Financial Times website, www.ft.com, with a similar delay.  
Up-to-date market information and the Company’s share  
price is also available from the Cityline service operated by  
the Financial Times by telephoning 09058 171 690. 
The Company sends to its shareholders each year an Annual 
Report. Copies of this and of public announcements and  
ﬁnancial results are published on the Company’s website,  
www.vitecgroup.com.
Financial calendar
Analysis of shareholdings as at 31 December 2012
  Number %  Number % 
Shares held of holders of holders of shares of shares
Up to 1,000 534 51.7 203,835 0.5
1,001 to 5,000 277 26.8 660,596 1.5
5,001 to 10,000 70 6.7 517,542 1.2
10,001 to 50,000 72 7.0 1,594,234 3.6
50,001 to 100,000 22 2.1 1,494,161 3.4
100,001 and over 59 5.7 39,220,600 89.8
 1,034 100 43,690,968 100
Institutions 
and companies 350 33.8 41,269,098 94.5
Individuals including  
Directors and their 
families 684 66.2 2,421,870 5.5
 1,034 100 43,690,968 100.0
Ex-dividend date for 2012 ﬁnal dividend 17 April 2013
Record date for 2012 ﬁnal dividend 19 April 2013
Annual General Meeting 15 May 2013
Interim management statement 15 May 2013
2012 ﬁnal dividend payment date 17 May 2013
Announcement of 2013 half year results 22 August 2013
Proposed 2013 interim dividend payment date October 2013
Interim management statement November 2013
Shareholder Information and Financial Calendar
Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd
Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd
Find out more 
www.vitecgroup.com/shareholder_services
