 2010
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Return to growth
Volex Group plc
10 Eastbourne Terrace
London W2 6LG
United Kingdom
Tel:  +44 (0)20 3370 8830
Fax: +44 (0)20 3370 8831
www.volex.com
Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010   Overview
Volex is committed to enhancing shareholder value by 
providing high-quality interconnect solutions and power 
products to our customers around the world, and to 
working closely with our customers to optimise our 
solutions’ contribution to the performance of their own 
high-tech products and solutions.
With expertise across a broad range of interconnect and 
power products, Volex provides its customers with 
complete cable-assembly solutions encompassing design, 
manufacturing, testing and flexible delivery to all regions.
Our products are used in many high-tech products and 
services vital to modern life: communications networks, 
medical equipment, power generation, and everyday 
business devices and domestic equipment. Overview
Highlights 1
Introduction to Volex 2
Telecoms/Datacoms 4
Healthcare 6
Consumer 8
Industrial 10
Chairman’s statement 12
Business review
Chief Executive’s review  14
Financial review  16
Operating review 20
Management of principal risks 28
Corporate responsibility  30
Board Of Directors  32
Governance
Corporate governance report 34
Directors’ remuneration report  38
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 46
Directors’ report  47
Independent auditors’ report  49
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 50
Consolidated statement  
 of comprehensive income  51
Consolidated and company  
 statement of financial position 52
Consolidated and company  
 statement of changes in equity 53
Consolidated and company  
 statement of cash flows 54
Notes to the financial statements  55
Five year summary  91
Shareholder information  92
Registered office and advisors  92
Annual General Meeting
Notice of Annual General Meeting  93
Operating highlights
>  Executive management team now fully 
established and set to drive strategic and 
operational improvements 
>  Reorganisation of business along market 
sector and functional lines completed, enabling 
implementation of coherent, global initiatives
>  Strategy of increasing Volex designed content 
contributing to improving gross margins
>  Targeted investment in new product 
development reaping benefits in halogen-free 
power cords, high-speed data transmission 
products and outdoor fibre-optic solutions
 
Financial highlights
> Revenue up quarter on quarter from Q2
> Gross margin up to 20.2% (2009: 15.9%)
> Adjusted operating profit up 19% to £13.4m
> Adjusted EPS up 36% to 14.8 pence
> Net debt halved to £7.6m (2009: £14.8m)
Highlights
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 1 
*FY2009 figures include results of discontinued businesses.
Total Group adjusted operating profit*
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
0.2
2.2
2.0
2.7
3.0
3.1
3.4
3.8
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Quarterly revenue from ongoing operations, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
n Consumer n Telecoms/Datacoms   
n Healthcare n Industrial Volex is a leading provider of interconnect 
solutions and power products, servicing the 
telecommunications, datacoms/data-centre, 
industrial, consumer and healthcare sectors. 
Our range of products and solutions 
encompasses interconnect cable assemblies 
– including fibre-optic (FO), high-speed 
copper, radio frequency (RF), and 
industry-standard assemblies – and a  
wide range of power products. 
Established over 100 years ago, Volex operates 
nine manufacturing locations around the 
globe, with strong capabilities in product 
development, manufacturing and testing. 
Volex also runs over twenty sales and support 
offices located strategically in Asia, North and 
South America and Europe.
We seek to offer our customers a complete 
solution to their interconnect or power-cable 
requirements, by exploiting our broad  
product portfolio, our engineering design  
and development capabilities, our superior 
quality and wide variety of assembly and 
supply services.
Introduction to Volex: a global business operating  
in high-growth markets
Telecoms /  Datacoms Healthcare Consumer
We supply to manufacturers of 
equipment for telecoms networks and 
high-performance computing centres 
and data-centres. Our product 
innovation is geared to supporting 
requirements for ever-increasing rates 
of data transmission and the roll-out of 
broadband and mobile-phone networks 
in developing countries.
Drivers
Demand for data-intensive  >
services delivered over 
mobile-phone networks, leading 
to deployment of 3G and 4G/LTE 
networks 
On-going build-out of mobile- >
phone networks in developing 
countries
Investment in data-centre  >
infrastructure – for example to 
support hosted business services 
and increasing video traffic on  
the internet
Key product examples
High-speed copper cable  >
assemblies
Fibre-optic cable assemblies >
Radio frequency cable  >
assemblies
Volex has a successful history serving 
key accounts in the medical equipment 
field, including supply to all forms of 
medical imaging equipment. We aim to 
continue developing our healthcare 
business in North America and Europe, 
while also targeting the manufacturers 
located in Asian countries.
Drivers
Increased demand in developing  >
countries for good-quality 
healthcare provision
Treatment requirements for  >
ageing populations in developed 
countries
Emphasis on preventative health  >
monitoring and early diagnosis to 
avoid high-cost hospital 
treatments
Key product examples
Complex equipment harness  >
assemblies
Patient monitoring cables   >
• for ECG / EKG machines 
• for home-healthcare monitoring
Our Consumer sector supplies to 
manufacturers of electrical / electronic 
devices and appliances targeted at 
domestic consumers and business 
users. We supply into laptop / desktop 
computers, printers, televisions, power 
tools and floor cleaning equipment.
Drivers
Growth in new product categories  >
such as netbook computers, 
tablet PCs, 3D-TVs 
Increasing demand for  >
environmentally-friendly power 
cords, e.g. using halogen-free 
materials
Manufacturers moving from  >
in-house or local suppliers to 
global, high-quality suppliers
Key product examples
High-volume power cords and  >
adaptors
Video-monitor cables >
Power distribution units >
2 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Overview Our Industrial sector supplies to 
customers in industries such as  
test and measurement equipment, 
manufacturing automation, 
refrigeration, vehicle telematics,  
and renewable energy.
Drivers
Private and public investment in  >
renewable energy, such as solar 
and wind power
Enhanced manufacturing quality  >
and productivity through 
automation of manufacturing /
operational processes
Key product examples
Solar power grid cable  >
assemblies
Machine tool cable harnesses >
Industrial
 Global headquarters
 1. London, United Kingdom
 Manufacturing units
 2. Tijuana, Mexico
 3. Jacarei, Brazil
 4. Bydgoszcz, Poland
 5. Chennai, India
 6. Batam, Indonesia
 7. Ha Noi, Vietnam
 8. Shenzhen, China
 9. Zhongshan, China
10. Suzhou, China
Sales/Engineering units
11. Castlebar, Ireland
12. Hickory, NC, USA
13. Singapore
14. Indianapolis, IN, USA
15. Istanbul, Turkey
16. Bangkok, Thailand
17. Selangor, Malaysia
18. Hong Kong, China
19. Beijing, China
20. Yokohama, Japan
21. Osaka, Japan
22. Ottawa, Canada
23. Taipei, Taiwan
24. Laguna, Philippines
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3  Volex has a successful track record of 
servicing the world’s top telecommunication 
and data-communication equipment 
manufacturers in Europe and North 
America. More recently we have secured 
significant new business with a number of 
Asian manufacturers who are increasingly  
at the forefront of market innovation. One 
such example is Huawei from whom we 
received a prestigious Core Partner Award 
during the year.
Volex’ s industry-leading high-speed copper solutions and 
patented manufacturing technology have allowed us to 
meet these companies’ demanding technical specifications 
for their next generation telecommunications equipment. 
Our global manufacturing footprint and flexible supply chain 
solutions have also been critical winning business – for 
example in securing a contract with one of Asia’ s fastest 
growing telecoms-infrastructure companies in support of 
their ambitious international expansion plans.
This increased customer engagement is key to increasing 
the percentage of higher margin products that contain 
Volex engineered content and establishing our reputation 
for more value-added solutions.
Telecoms / Datacoms accounted for 25.9% 
of the Group’s revenue in FY2010.
Telecoms /  Datacoms
4 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Overview
FY2010 Telecoms / Datacoms revenue by region
n 14% Asia (exc. India)
n 31% India
n 20% Americas
n 35% Europe Moving up the 
value chain
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5  Healthcare
Success in the Healthcare sector is 
dependent on innovative engineered 
solutions and excellence in quality. The 
sector is characterised by extended product 
development lead-times and long product 
lifecycles, which can result in long-term 
supplier relationships. Last year Volex’s 
strengths in this respect were recognised  
by being awarded ‘Best Overall Supplier’  
to Royal Philips with whom we have  
worked for over 20 years.
Volex has worked with a major global healthcare equipment 
provider for over two years on the design and prototyping 
of complex cable assemblies that will be used in their next 
generation MRI scanner system which contains over 100 
different complex cable assemblies. Volex has been 
approved for production and is assisting the customer in 
bringing the product from prototype to full production 
releases. Pre-production systems will ship to hospitals 
during 2010 with full production in early 2011.
The Healthcare sector offers significant opportunities for 
growth as Volex targets new customers and exploits its 
established pedigree in fast-growth healthcare 
manufacturing markets such as China, India and Brazil.
Healthcare accounted for 8.4% of the 
Group’s revenue in FY2010.
6 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Overview
FY2010 Healthcare revenue by region
n 11% Asia (exc. India)
n 59% Americas
n 30% Europe Adding value 
to products and 
customers
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7  Working with our customers to address  
‘green’ concerns, Volex has developed 
environmentally-friendly products which 
replace traditional PVC and BFR (Brominated 
Flame Retardant) materials with halogen-free 
materials which do not emit toxic gases when 
disposed of at end of life and phthalate-free 
products which do not contain carcinogens.
These products were developed by working with our 
global customers, including a leading brand for personal 
computers, digital music players and smart phones to 
whom we have supplied customised plugs and power 
cords for over ten years, and where we have embedded 
our own engineering resource within their product 
development team.
Volex’ s leadership in these innovative, environmentally-
friendly products has generated increased volumes while 
the product’s higher specifications command higher  
prices helping to drive both revenues and margins.
Consumer accounted for 60.9% of the 
Group’s revenue in FY2010.
Consumer
8 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Overview
FY2010 Consumer revenue by region
n 73% Asia (exc. India)
n 3% India
n 13% Americas
n 11% Europe A track record
for delivery
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9  Industrial is Volex’s smallest but fastest 
growing sector. This is exemplified by our 
new product launches in the solar energy 
segment where we have developed  
junction boxes and cable assemblies that 
interconnect solar arrays for Photovoltaic 
(PV) installations.
Volex is working with one of the fastest growing 
suppliers of such installations. We were chosen 
because of our ability to serve them in different 
geographies, our competitive pricing, our willingness 
to develop customer-specific solutions and our ability 
to support their speed to market.
With the number of PV installations growing at 35% 
per annum over the last ten years and the market now 
estimated be worth more than US$16bn, Solar has 
the potential to become a significant revenue 
contributor to the Industrial sector.
Industrial accounted for 4.8% of the Group’s 
revenue in FY2010.
Industrial
10 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Overview
FY2010 Industrial revenue by region
n 12% Asia (exc. India)
n 88% Americas  Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 
Offering 
genuine 
innovation Following a very challenging and 
turbulent period, Volex entered the 
financial year under the strong 
leadership of a new Group Chief 
Executive, Ray Walsh, and Group 
Finance Director, Andrew Cherry, and 
achieved a much improved 
performance, increasing operating 
profits, improving margins and 
significantly reducing net debt. 
 
A strong performance
The new team has made substantial progress in its 
mission to restore financial stability to the Group.  
The team has concentrated on bringing the global 
operations together under a new unified organisational 
structure focused on delivering on a single, global 
strategy for Volex. 
This strategy is already starting to achieve results. 
Operating profits* have improved quarter on quarter 
throughout the year, contributing £13.4m in 2010, 19% 
ahead of 2009 (2009: £11.2m). Net debt has been 
almost halved to £7.6m – the lowest level in ten years 
(2009: £14.8m). Equally importantly, quarter on quarter 
revenue growth from Q2 has been achieved during 
exceptionally challenging economic conditions.
Building a world class team
The new Chief Executive, Ray Walsh, was appointed to 
the Board in April 2009, bringing to Volex considerable 
experience of leading technology companies. Working 
with Andrew Cherry, who was appointed towards the 
end of the last financial year, he has made an immediate 
impact on the business and put in place a clear strategy 
for the future. 
* Before non-recurring items and share-based payments.
Building a world class team
Chairman’s statement
We are now targeting growth through: 
> Strong executive leadership team
> A single, global strategy for Volex
> Unified organisational structure
>  World-class quality and  
customer service
> Cost-competitiveness
12 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review The executive management team has also been 
strengthened with the addition of two senior 
executives to lead the critical sales and marketing and 
operations functions. The executive team has a clear 
mandate; to deliver world-class quality and customer 
service, cost-competitiveness, improving margins, and 
to return the business to growth.
It has been a tough year and I would like to thank all 
our employees, in every location, for their hard work 
and positive response to the huge changes being 
implemented across the Group.
Restoring market confidence
The Board and executive management have worked 
hard in the last year to restore confidence in the 
Group, following a period of underachievement. As the 
new team’s strategy, which is already delivering results 
in a difficult economic environment, becomes fully 
embedded throughout the business, we hope to build 
confidence in the Group still further.
Outlook
Although we are operating well within our banking 
covenants, we remain focused on cash generation 
and reducing net debt.
The Board remains cautious on revenue growth rates 
as a slow return to global financial stability and 
emergence from recession is likely to continue in the 
near-term. However, this will not diminish our focus on 
improving our proposition to customers and effecting 
wide-ranging internal improvements to help deliver 
continuing improvements to our P&L and balance 
sheet. We believe that this will in turn translate into 
long-term value for our shareholders.
Mike McTighe
Chairman
Our year in review
Here are some of our highlights from 
FY2010. But we’re aware there is  
much more to do to continue developing 
the business.
Recruited a strong leadership team
We have put in place a strong 
executive team, including three  
new senior executives with global 
responsibility for Sales and Marketing, 
Operations, and HR, in addition to the 
new CEO and Finance Director 
appointed early in 2009.
Restructured around market sectors 
and global functions
We have re-organised our sales teams 
around market sectors, with global 
account teams for our customers.  
Our operations are organised globally 
along functional lines, enabling 
delivery of coherent global strategies. 
Growth in revenue from own- 
design products
We have strengthened our technical 
design teams to increase early 
engineering engagement with our 
customers, driving improvements  
in our gross margins.
Increased focus on Asia
We have increased our sales and 
operational focus on the high-growth 
economies in China and India, 
working closely with our customers’ 
Asian operations. The proportion of 
our revenue from Asia (incl India) 
was 59% (2009: 53%).
Improving performance trend
Revenues have grown consistently, 
quarter on quarter, from Q2; and 
operating profits* have grown quarter 
on quarter, throughout the year, 
contributing £13.4m this year.
* Before non-recurring items and share-based payments.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13  team with in-depth experience in our products and 
markets, combined with leadership, organisational and 
process capabilities honed in organisations much 
larger than Volex today. This talented team brings a 
high level of professionalism to the Group and the 
strategies we are currently implementing will grow 
Volex to a size and scale that matches this expertise.
Developing a clear strategy
Setting a clear direction and purpose has been key  
to revitalising the business. Our strategy focuses on 
becoming a truly global business, driving sales growth 
via strong global, sector-based sales and account 
management. Our sales and operations focus is on  
the high growth, emerging economies in India, Brazil 
and China, while continuing to deliver for our 
established customers in North America and Europe.
Margin improvement is also a key strategic objective 
through designed-in content and early engineering 
engagement with customers. This investment in early 
product lifecycle and key client engagement was integral 
to our improved gross margin performance in the last 
financial year, increasing to 20.2% (2009: 15.9%). T o 
continue that improvement, we need to increase the 
percentage of products shipped that contain this Volex 
engineered content. 
In our manufacturing operations we are implementing 
LEAN manufacturing techniques to increase utilisation of 
existing factory capacity and to deliver improved speed, 
efficiency and quality. 
To provide a firm foundation for our growth targets,  
we will be implementing standardised processes, 
measurements and IT systems to provide a platform 
for sound, data-driven decisions and to help optimise 
operations. Standardising our products, organisation, 
processes and platforms will enable us to produce real 
and sustainable growth in revenues and significant 
efficiency and quality gains in operations and supply 
chain processes. 
Aligning the organisation
During the year, the business was reorganised along 
market sector and functional lines, under the new 
management team. We can now implement coherent, 
global strategies that cross geographical boundaries.
Our market sectors are now defined as 
Telecommunications/DataCommunications (Telecoms / 
Datacoms), Healthcare, Consumer and Industrial. 
Today, all staff across the Group report to their 
functional, global head including Sales & Marketing, 
Operations, Finance, Engineering and Human 
Resources. Through this organisation structure, Volex 
can align its global strategies and capabilities with our 
strategic clients and targets. Building a more balanced 
business will also increase our resilience to market 
fluctuations and enhance our ability to capitalise  
on opportunities.
Telecoms/Datacoms
This market sector serves the mobile connectivity, 
broadband networks and high-performance data-centre 
markets. In the last year, the segment has penetrated 
key emerging accounts such as Huawei and ZTE in 
Our objective last year was to 
demonstrate clearly to all Volex 
stakeholders that we have stabilised 
the business – both operationally  
and financially.
Return to growth 
Our objective last year was to demonstrate clearly  
to all Volex stakeholders that we have stabilised  
the business – both operationally and financially.  
Our quarter on quarter improvements in revenues, 
operating profit and cash flow are evidence of  
our progress and set the stage for the next phase  
of development – a return to growth.  
Sound foundations for the future have been put in 
place. Volex now has a strong, dynamic executive 
Chief Executive’s review
Executing a defined strategy:
>  Drive sales growth with global, 
sector-based sales and increasing 
focus on customers in high-growth 
developing countries.
>  Drive margin improvement through 
increasing designed-in content and 
advanced engineering engagement.
>  Implement LEAN manufacturing 
techniques to improve utilisation, 
productivity and quality.
>  Implement standardised processes, 
measurements and IT systems to 
underpin one global team.
14 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review China at a strategic level, while keeping our long-term 
relationships healthy with core clients like Ericsson and 
Alcatel-Lucent. Although we maintain a modest capital 
expenditure to revenue ratio, we have invested in 
product development in this area, particularly in 
high-speed copper and fibre connectivity. These are 
used in all types of communications networks and are 
particularly effective in extremely dense, high- 
performance cloud computing environments. Our 
industry leadership in standards definition in these 
areas allows us to play an important part in our 
customers’ product development lifecycles. 
Healthcare
Volex has a long and successful history of servicing key 
accounts in the medical equipment field including all 
forms of imaging technologies from x-ray to MRI 
machinery, where we supply cable assembly and 
connector technologies. This segment is optimally 
aligned with our strategy of increasing engineering 
content as our clients require customised solutions and 
early product lifecycle engagement. We are now taking 
our best-in-class expertise in serving European and 
North American clients and applying this to emerging 
suppliers of these technologies in China, Japan and 
India. The Group expects significant long-term growth 
in this sector not only due to well-documented 
demographics on ageing populations and anticipated 
spend on medical care, but also as a result of our 
broadening product scope to include home-healthcare 
products, patient monitoring cables, patient-related 
equipment and consumables. 
Consumer
Representing more than half of our revenue in the last 
financial year, our Consumer sector supplies power and 
data cables and cable assemblies for consumer and 
business hardware such as laptop/desktop computers, 
printers, televisions, power tools, floor cleaning 
equipment and many other applications. We are the 
market leader in this sector and have been able to 
leverage this strong position to significantly increase 
production allocations from our key clients. Our 
considerable engineering talent and experience has 
developed an industry leading, environmentally 
responsible, halogen-free powercord production 
process which is beginning to replace traditional PVC 
compounds. This not only meets or exceeds the 
environmental safety expectations of our clients, but 
also enables us to take market share from competitors 
who have not invested in next generation technology. 
Industrial 
The Industrial sector, while the smallest by share of 
revenues, has some of the most exciting growth 
prospects. Historically this area of the business served 
industrial manufacturing and test equipment, large 
scale cooling hardware, satellite tracking systems and 
even vending machines. We are extending our product 
range to include green energy and smart grid 
technologies. Volex has developed specific cables, 
assemblies and connectors for the solar energy market 
where we have already signed new clients. The team is 
now developing products and relationships in the wind 
power segment where we can supply power and 
control cable assemblies for what is an exciting and 
growing market opportunity. 
Operational excellence 
All our factories and operations are now functioning 
under a single management structure and are beginning 
to implement a common set of operational processes 
and measurements, in addition to implementing a unified 
LEAN manufacturing strategy. While we start the new 
financial year with a utilisation rate of approximately 50% 
across our total factory capacity, we expect to add an 
additional 30% capacity through efficiency programmes 
and LEAN manufacturing by the end of the year. We 
have no plans to further restructure or reduce our factory 
footprint, but intend to capitalise on our current fixed 
cost base as we grow revenues. This will increase our 
operating margin through more efficient use of space, 
equipment and labour and give us a more competitive 
cost base. Our factories are rapidly becoming a strategic 
asset to the Group, helping us differentiate our offering to 
the market based on capability, cost and quality.
Volex continues to drive efficiency through our supply 
chain processes. In the last year we reduced the 
supplier base by more than 30% and anticipate we 
will repeat that performance in the coming year. 
Consolidating our spend with fewer suppliers gives 
negotiating leverage in price and enables us to 
participate in supplier managed hubs so we only 
replenish inventories when raw materials  
are consumed. 
Good progress, but much more to do… 
While we have done much in the last year to stabilise 
the business, there is still demanding work ahead as 
we return to growth and further improve the business. 
We enter the new financial year with the tools to face 
the challenging tasks ahead in driving efficiency 
improvements in all of our factories and operational 
processes, reforming our Information Technology 
platforms, accelerating the deployment of higher 
margin / engineered products and serving our 
customers with a more strategic and global 
perspective. It is only the talent and dedication of our 
people across the globe that makes such complex and 
far-reaching change possible and it is in this resource 
that we entrust our future.
Ray Walsh
Group Chief Executive
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15  The Group has made significant 
progress during the year to  
4 April 2010, despite a challenging 
market environment. 
Revenues in the year ending April 2010 (Financial Year 
2010, or FY2010) were down on the prior year 
(FY2009). However, the decline was less than 
experienced by our major competitors and the industry 
as a whole, giving encouragement that if anything the 
Group has strengthened its competitive positioning 
during the year. Equally importantly, revenues grew 
consistently quarter on quarter during FY2010 (from 
Q2) and we anticipate the current financial year 
(FY2011) will see year on year growth. 
Gross profit, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit 
before tax and adjusted profit after tax (adjusting for 
non-recurring items and share-based payments) were 
all significantly ahead of the prior year – up 10%, 19%, 
22% and 35% respectively. Indeed this illustrates the 
operational leverage enjoyed by the business which 
positions the Group well for the anticipated economic 
recovery amplified further by a range of ongoing 
commercial and operational improvements which will 
begin to deliver financial improvements during FY2011.
The Group also remains focused on cash generation 
and strengthening the balance sheet with net debt 
halved during the year from £15m to £8m and 
shareholders’ equity doubled from £6m to £13m.
Revenues
Revenue from continuing operations of £229m was 
14% down in FY2010 compared with FY2009, due to 
reduced consumer and business spending associated 
with the difficult economic conditions. Currency 
movements, in particular the weakening of Sterling 
against the US Dollar, benefited the year on year 
comparison, with revenue down 19% on a constant 
currency basis (17% on a pro rated 52 week basis). 
Constant currency comparisons are derived by 
translating both years at FY2010 exchange rates.
Encouragingly, after three quarters of declining sales 
from the third quarter of FY2009, the final three quarters 
of FY2010 saw quarter on quarter revenue growth, with 
performance since the year end suggesting a 
continuation of this momentum into FY2011.
Telecoms / Datacoms
Our Telecoms / Datacoms sector experienced the 
largest year on year revenue decline falling 27% from 
£81m to £59m. Telecoms/Datacoms revenues are 
primarily driven by infrastructure spend on wireless and 
broadband network builds or upgrades and on 
investments in high-performance computing centres 
and data centres. During FY2009 revenue growth in this 
sector was especially driven by network roll-outs in 
China and India. However, investment levels were 
reduced by the telecommunications service providers 
following the global credit crunch and this adversely 
impacted on Volex revenues. In India this was 
compounded by delays in the award of the 3G licences 
which were originally scheduled to be auctioned in 
16 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review
Financial review
0
10
20
30
40
50
Ongoing Consumer revenues, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
0
5
10
15
20
25
Ongoing Telecoms/Datacoms revenues, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Ongoing Healthcare revenues, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
0
1
2
3
4
5
Ongoing Industrial revenues, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
n Asia  n America  n Europe  n India August 2009 but which were only awarded in May 2010 
and also by the introduction, by the Indian Department 
of Telecommunications in December 2009, of a 
requirement to get security clearance for specified 
telecommunications equipment which essentially stalled 
the market in the final quarter of FY2010. Year on year 
comparisons are also adversely impacted by the loss of 
Nortel, which had been one of the sector’s principal 
accounts. However, we have seen confidence return to 
the Telecoms /Datacoms sector in recent months and, 
with the exception of temporary considerations in India, 
this has already translated into improved sales and an 
increasing order book. In addition to this improving 
business backdrop we are also confident that FY2011 
revenues will benefit from investment made during 
FY2010 into new products, in particular high-speed 
copper products, and into relationships with a number 
of new accounts including leading edge datacoms 
equipment providers and fast growing Chinese telecoms 
OEMs such as Huawei and ZTE.
Healthcare
Healthcare delivered a solid performance during the 
year, down slightly in FY2010 from £21m to £19m. 
Healthcare was the first of our sectors to be formed in 
our new market sector-driven sales organisation and is 
already gaining significant traction with new accounts 
outside of our traditional customer base. There are 
significant long-term growth prospects in this sector 
driven by growing and ageing populations. Volex’s 
healthcare revenues have historically been concentrated 
in developed economies but we are rapidly increasing 
our presence in emerging markets and expect that this 
will drive growth in FY2011 and beyond.
Consumer
Consumer, our largest sector, experienced a 9%  
year on year decline in revenues from £153m to  
£139m. Consumer revenues are driven by underlying 
consumption of electrical and electronic equipment – 
generally by end consumers, although businesses also 
account for a significant proportion of spend especially 
in the computer and peripherals segments. As such our 
Consumer revenues declined in response to falling 
consumer confidence post the Lehman collapse which 
was exacerbated by destocking by OEMs and retailers. 
Since the beginning of FY2010 we have experienced 
improving confidence on behalf of our customers and a 
gradual increase in our Consumer order book. This 
improving scenario is most pronounced in Asia where 
consumer confidence was less impacted and which has 
benefited from the shifting regional focus of our OEM 
customers. At the same time the migration from 
traditional PVC-based products to more environmentally-
friendly halogen-free products has boosted revenues 
since Volex enjoys a competitive advantage in this 
emerging technology and by increasing our average 
selling price per unit. The Group is also enjoying higher 
allocations of our customer spend due to improved 
quality, our much improved credit rating and the trend by 
our OEM customers to consolidate their vendor portfolio 
– something which generally favours Volex given our 
clear market leadership in Consumer products.
Industrial
Industrial is currently the smallest of our sectors but is 
also the best performing, up 10% from £10m to £11m 
during FY2010. While the majority of this increase  
is due to just a couple of accounts we anticipate  
that additional customer wins and new product 
introductions, particularly in the renewable energy 
segment, will help to continue this momentum.
Profits
In addition to top line growth, Volex’s other main 
objective is margin improvement. As the table below 
and the graph on page 18 illustrate, the last two 
years have demonstrated significant success in this 
respect, with gross margin increasing from 15.9% in 
FY2009 to 20.2% in FY2010. The decline in reported 
gross margins in Q4 FY2010 to 19.9% is due entirely 
to £1.0m of one-off charges in India explained further 
below. Excluding this, the gross margin percentage 
in Q4 FY2010 would have been 21.5%.
Even with reduced revenues absolute gross margin 
has increased by 10% from £42m to £46m. Given 
our focus on this measure, we have enhanced the 
presentation of our income statement to include 
gross margin and we will also be reporting gross 
margins by sector on an annual and half-yearly 
basis. One of the main contributors to improved 
margins has been an increasing proportion of Volex 
designed-in content within our products and 
advanced engineering engagement with our 
customers at an earlier stage in the product 
lifecycle, allowing us to contribute greater value 
added to the design and development of our 
customer’s products. This strategic repositioning is 
an ongoing process and we expect to continue 
increasing the proportion of Volex designed content 
in our products. We have also seen benefits from 
our new global procurement and logistics practices, 
reduced factory overheads and favourable year on 
year reductions in the cost of commodities – 
primarily copper and oil. Looking forward the 
introduction of LEAN manufacturing methodologies 
and upgraded and harmonised manufacturing 
systems will yield additional benefits in FY2011.
Consumer, Healthcare and Industrial all saw strong year 
on year improvements in gross margin % – moving 
from an average of 15.2% in FY2009 to 22.1% in 
FY2010. Reported Telecoms / Datacoms gross margin 
percentage fell to 14.8% which after adjusting for the 
£1.0m one-off India charge described above would 
have been 16.4%. Telecoms / Datacoms margins were 
impacted by the suppressed market noted above and 
by the amortisation of fixed factory overheads across a 
significantly reduced revenue base.
Gross margin percentage of ongoing operations by sector
 FY2010 FY2009 
Telecoms / Datacoms 14.8% 17.4%
Consumer 22.1% 15.2%
Healthcare 21.6% 16.2%
Industrial  22.7% 14.1%
Total ongoing operations 20.2% 15.9%
Despite the year on year decline in revenue, operating 
profit increased by £3.6m (56%) from £6.6m to £10.2m 
– due entirely to the higher gross margin noted above. 
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17  On an adjusted basis operating profit increased £2.2m 
(19%) from £11.2m to £13.4m. The Board considers 
this to be the best indicator of underlying profit and we 
are delighted to have returned the Group to a path of 
steady improvement following years of fluctuating and 
unpredictable profitability or intermittent losses. In 
particular, as the graph below shows, the Group has 
now delivered five consecutive quarters of quarter on 
quarter profit growth. Similar improvements have also 
been achieved in adjusted profit before tax which has 
increased by £1.8m (22%) from £8.2m to £10.0m.
Reported operating expenses were largely unchanged 
year on year at £35.9m, up £0.3m (1%) on FY2009. On an 
adjusted basis the increase was greater – up £1.8m from 
£31.0m to £32.8m. However, half of this increase is due to 
charges of £0.9m in India relating to legacy issues. 
In particular, following the appointment of a new Indian 
Finance Director, we have effected improvements in a 
number of controls particularly pertaining to accounting 
for excise taxes and customs duties. As a result of these 
improvements we have written off or provided for 
amounts totalling £2.0m, including £1.0m charged to 
cost of sales and £0.9m within operating expenses. 
These expenses are one-off items that relate exclusively 
to issues which existed prior to FY2010 and in some 
cases several years previously. However, consistent with 
the Group’s stated objective of minimising the 
classification of items as ‘non-recurring charges’ we have 
incorporated the £2.0m of charges above adjusted 
operating profit. The remaining £0.9m increase in 
normalised operating expenses reflects targeted strategic 
investments primarily in strengthening management 
across the Group. The Group will continue to focus on its 
cost base and fixed/variable cost structure and stands to 
benefit from significant operating leverage effects as and 
when the anticipated revenue increases materialise.
Non-recurring items
The Group incurred £3.1m of non-recurring charges in 
the year as part of management’s transformation 
programme which, together with a small share-based 
payments charge, reconcile the statutory operating 
profit of £10.2m with the adjusted operating profit of 
£13.4m discussed above. These charges relate to:
(i) £1.2m of redundancy, recruitment and set-up costs 
associated with the relocation of the Group’s 
corporate headquarters from Warrington to London
(ii) a non-cash charge of £0.9m relating to an onerous 
lease provision established on exiting the 
Warrington premises
(iii) £0.9m of costs associated with a facilities 
rationalisation programme
(iv) £0.5m resulting from the conclusion of all 
outstanding issues pertaining to the disposal of  
the Wiring Harness business in the prior year 
(v) offset by a partial write-back of £0.4m on the 
onerous lease provision relating to a vacant UK 
property which was sub-let during the year.
Cashflows, net debt and gearing
The Group continues to be strongly cash generative 
with cash generated by operations before non-
recurring items of £18.6m in FY2010 compared to 
£21.8m in FY2009. After aggregate outflows for tax, 
interest and capital expenditures, operating cash flow 
before non-recurring items was £13.2m (2009: 
£17.9m). One-off outflows which we would not 
expect to be repeated in FY2011 totalled £6.2m – 
comprising non-recurring items of £2.7m, refinancing 
costs of £1.5m and outflows associated with the 
disposal of VWS of £2.0m. Despite these outflows 
the Group was able to repay £6.0m of borrowing and 
almost halve its net debt from £14.8m to £7.6m. 
Shareholders’ funds increased during the year from 
£6.3m to £12.7m mainly due to retained profit for the 
year of £5.3m. Also impacting shareholders’ funds during 
the period was a favourable foreign exchange movement 
of £1.6m and a charge of £0.5m in respect of the IAS 19 
actuarial loss on the Group’s two defined benefit pension 
schemes. A full analysis of the movement in 
shareholders’ funds is shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity on page 53. 
18 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review
Financial review continued
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Quarterly revenue from ongoing operations, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
n Consumer n Telecoms/Datacoms   
n Healthcare n Industrial
Reported Group net debt, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
18.8
18.6
23.0
14.8
17.8
11.2 11.3
7.6
Quarterly gross margin from ongoing operations, %
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
12.9
15.7
15.0
19.9
19.2
20.9
21.4
19.9
*FY2009 figures include results of discontinued businesses.
Total Group adjusted operating profit*, £m
 Q1 FY09 Q2 FY09 Q3 FY09 Q4 FY09 Q1 FY10 Q2 FY10 Q3 FY10 Q4 FY10
0.2
2.2
2.0
2.7
3.0
3.1
3.4
3.8 As a result of these movements, headline gearing (defined  
as net debt divided by shareholders’ funds) at year end 
decreased to 60% (2009: 236%).
Total interest costs in the year increased to £3.4m from £3.2m 
in FY2009. Interest on bank borrowings decreased by £0.1m 
compared to prior year, with lower average borrowings broadly 
offsetting the small increases in margin over LIBOR payable on 
the extended Lloyds facility. This bank interest saving was 
offset by increases in non-cash interest costs of £0.3m in the 
year, primarily relating to amortisation of bank fees and net 
pension interest, charged to the income statement in 
accordance with IAS 19. A full analysis of interest costs is 
shown in note 6 to the Financial Statements on page 67.
Banking facilities
The Group has a revolving credit facility (RCF) with Lloyds 
Banking Group plc which, after amortisation, had an available 
limit of US$57.7m as at 4 April 2010, comprising both a US 
Dollar and a Euro component. At the year end, amounts drawn 
under this facility were US$21.7m and €13.5m and average 
combined utilisation during the year was US$45.6m. In 
addition, the Group has a separate €6.8m invoice discounting 
facility with Lloyds Banking Group plc, (a facility that had 
previously been established with HBOS plc, now a part of 
Lloyds). At 4 April 2010 the Group had undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities of £14.0m (2009: £11.4m). These Lloyds 
facilities (the RCF and the former HBOS invoice discounting 
facility) mature in March 2012. The RCF amortises by US$2.5m 
per calendar quarter, with the remaining facility balance 
amortising on maturity. The invoice discounting facility does 
not reduce until the maturity date.
Based on the Group’s projected financial performance the 
Board is confident that the combination of the above facilities 
provides adequate liquidity and covenant headroom for the 
Group’s operations and the successful execution of its strategy.
Tax
The Group incurred a tax charge of £1.6m (2009: £2.0m) 
representing an effective tax rate (ETR) of 24% (2009: 56%). 
The principal cause of the reduction in the ETR in FY2010 is 
the release of £1.1m of tax provisions previously held in 
respect of tax exposures associated with local tax authority 
compliance. Following successful finalisation of tax 
computation filings in a number of regions and across a 
number of tax years, these provisions are no longer required 
and have been released back to the income statement. 
In addition, the Group has recognised £0.1m of deferred tax 
asset in respect of unused tax losses, following the initiation of 
a global supply chain optimisation project. This deferred tax 
asset is only in respect of a small proportion of the Group’s tax 
losses. The Group expects to increase the recognition of 
deferred tax assets relating to tax losses over the next few 
years as the benefits anticipated from the global supply chain 
project accrue with greater certainty. Total Group losses at 4 
April 2010 were £54m (2009: £46m). On a full recognition basis 
this represents a potential deferred tax asset of £14.6m. We 
expect that the above optimisation project will result in a 
significantly lower ETR and tax cash outflows in future years 
than has been the case in the past.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations  
for the year was 9.3p, significantly ahead of the 2.8p reported 
last year on account of the substantial improvement in profit 
after tax. Adjusted earnings per share increased to 14.8p from 
10.9p last year. 
Dividends
The Company has negative distributable reserves and 
accordingly is currently unable to declare and pay a dividend. 
Management is reviewing ways in which it can reorganise the 
Company balance sheet. Any such reorganisation would 
need shareholder approval and the sanction of the courts and 
it is anticipated that proposals to address this issue will be 
developed during FY2011.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group’s net pension deficit under IAS 19 at the year end 
increased from £1.8m at 5 April 2009 to £2.4m at 4 April 2010. 
While the fair value of assets increased during the period from 
£9.2m to £11.1m, the present value of the defined benefit 
obligations increased from £11.1m to £13.5m, primarily due  
to a decrease in discount rate used to value the pension 
scheme’s obligations. As required by IAS 19, the discount rate 
used by the Group is determined with reference to yields on 
corporate bonds and these yields decreased significantly 
between 5 April 2009 and the balance sheet date.
Andrew Cherry
Group Finance Director
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19  We are a leading provider of interconnect cable 
assemblies, including fibre-optic (FO), high-speed 
copper, radio frequency (RF), and industry-standard 
assemblies, and of a wide range of power products to 
the telecommunications, datacoms / data-centre, 
industrial, consumer products and healthcare sectors.
Driving our sales
In the FY2010 financial year, Volex maintained its 
focus on implementing a new global sales structure 
concentrating on key market sectors in an 
environment of global economic challenge. Working 
globally in close partnership with our customers, Volex 
has positioned itself into new long-term programmes 
in growing technologies such as 4G/LTE, High-
Performance Computing (HPC), tablet PCs, 3DTV, 
Alternative Energy and next-generation Medical 
Imaging Systems. The sector strategy has aligned 
engineering, Research and Development (R&D), 
production, test and quality enabling Volex to improve 
speed to market, lower end-product costs and 
enhance product reliability. 
Telecoms/Datacoms
Volex is a global interconnect provider to the telecom 
and datacoms infrastructure market; we service 
mobile telecoms networks, fixed-line broadband 
networks, and HPC centres and data-centres. 
20 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Revenue by sector
n Consumer 61%
n Tel / Datacoms 26%
n Healthcare 8%
n Industrial 5%
Business review
Operating review
Volex is a global electrical and 
electronic cable assemblies group, 
with approximately 6,800 employees 
based in 20 sales and support 
offices and nine manufacturing 
locations across the world.
We are...
>  Customer-facing, with sector-driven 
sales teams
>  Transforming our operations to further 
improve quality and efficiency
>  Providing high-value engineering 
design and manufacturing expertise
>  Thinking and acting as one global 
company This is a high-growth international sector and a 
significant contributor to the world economy.  
The global market for telecoms carrier network 
infrastructure was $88.3bn in 2008, falling by 7.4% to 
under $82bn in 2009. Strong mobile and broadband 
expansion in emerging markets and substantial 
economic recovery in developed countries result in a 
market forecast showing recovery to $88bn by 2013. 
The emergence of Chinese telecom equipment 
manufacturers as leading players in the global market 
adds significant momentum to the sector.
“ Focusing our sales and product 
development capabilities on the 
T elecoms / Datacoms sector has 
enabled us to build a solid foundation 
for capturing future opportunities. 
Building tailored products, developing 
our strategic customers and capitalising  
on our geographic presence has 
enabled us to position ourselves well  
as we enter FY2011.”  
Jeff Bierman, Senior VP Sales and Marketing
The worldwide deployments of high-speed mobile (3G 
and 4G/LTE) and high-speed fixed-line broadband 
access are shifting consumer usage to a wider range 
of data and content services, including more data-
intensive services (e.g. video) over telecom and data 
networks. This is driving the infrastructure equipment 
market to provide faster transmission with greater 
storage and processing capacities, and to upgrade 
core/backbone networks into multi-service all-IP 
(all-Internet Protocol) networks. The trend to deliver 
software as a service is opening up a new model, 
called Cloud Computing, for the hosting and delivery 
of IT services across the Internet.
Volex is well positioned to service these developments 
with our existing portfolio and new products, including 
both FO and high-speed copper cable assemblies, to 
support the high-bandwidth transmission requirements 
for these data-intensive services. 
In support of our Telecoms business, we have 
expanded our product offering for both RF and FO 
technologies. For example, in RF we now offer an 
end-to-end solution for RF transmission that provides 
board or box receptacles for all previously offered 
cable solutions. In addition Volex has developed a 
line of outdoor FO solutions in support of this industry. 
These products all interconnect with our competitors’ 
products, to increase the market opportunity for us, 
and are patent-protected. 
By maintaining our long-term relationships with  
core telecom OEMs and establishing strategic 
partnerships with leading Chinese telecom 
equipment manufacturers, Volex is now providing 
interconnect solutions to all the major global OEMs 
of basestation infrastructure equipment.
During the year, our R&D team, in conjunction with  
our HPC System and server/storage customers in the 
datacoms market, has designed high-bandwidth 
(high-speed) connectors and cable assemblies that 
are now in mass production. Volex has had a very 
successful year delivering its SFP , SAS and Mini SAS 
products and is seeing a keen interest in its SFP+ and 
QSFP products as they ramp up in production. Going 
into FY2011 the focus is on developing CXP products, 
for which we have obtained a licence with Molex to 
manufacture, and developing Active Optical Cables 
(AOC) for which we are making significant investments 
in both China and North America. 
These entire high speed data transmission product 
families go beyond our traditional range of cable-
assembly products, with Volex now incorporating the 
‘mated-pair’ of connectors into its design and 
manufacturing activities for all board/box products. 
This is a significant shift from the Volex of old, moving 
into supporting customers’ complete signal 
transmission requirements.
Our R&D resources are continuing to develop faster and 
broader high-speed interconnect solutions to meet the 
critical criteria for the next-generation HPC Systems 
including price/node, processor speed, reliability/
serviceability, system scalability and power efficiencies. 
Volex’s range of interconnect offerings include InfiniBand 
and Ethernet Interconnect Solutions, which combined 
have more than 83% share of the HPC market.
Our global presence, combined with a strong Asia-
centric supply chain, has proved to be a key strength 
during the economic crisis by enabling us to keep 
costs down whilst maintaining high quality levels. 
Significant new accounts have been secured in key 
markets in China, India and Brazil.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 21 
HPC interconnect solutions
n 43% Ethernet
n 40% Infiniband
n 17% Other
Source: IDC, Multi-client Study:  
Interconnect Report, 2009 Healthcare 
Volex has a long and successful history of servicing 
key accounts in the medical equipment field including 
all forms of imaging technologies where we supply 
cable assembly and connector technologies. The 
Healthcare equipment sector is more stable than other 
high-tech sectors, with long product development 
cycles and long product lifecycles, underpinned by 
long-term relationships between equipment 
manufacturers and their suppliers.
This sector has been less impacted than others by the 
market downturn in 2009. While imaging systems 
markets have suffered, particularly in North America, 
this has been partially offset for many of our customers 
by improved sales in developing markets. Developing 
markets are expected to drive future growth 
opportunities as access to healthcare increases, while 
in developed markets the ageing population trend will 
go some way to offset price erosion.
Our global healthcare sales were £19.3m in FY2010 
(2009: £21.1m). The majority of revenue (89%) was 
generated in North America and Europe, with 11% from 
other regions including China and Japan. Looking 
forward, we aim to increase the share of our healthcare 
revenues from developing markets to over 20%  
within four years.
Our ability to design and produce a wide portfolio  
of products, including high-performance cable 
assemblies, high-volume powercords, and complex 
hybrid cable harnesses, has been instrumental in 
winning important new customers and projects  
during the year. 
Imaging equipment such as MRI scanners, x-ray 
machines, computed tomography (CT), nuclear 
medicine and ultrasound scanners accounted for over 
50% of our healthcare sales in FY2010, with the balance 
spread across a wide range of medical equipment 
including patient monitoring, patient therapy and clinical 
diagnostic equipment. Volex’s strategy is to align with 
industry-leading healthcare equipment manufacturers in 
both mature and developing markets. Working with our 
customers at the early stages of design and 
development allows us to exploit our wide product 
portfolio and depth of knowledge. In the last year Volex 
has used a variety of tools and processes to shorten 
product-design cycles, such as rapid prototyping, and 
mold-flow analysis. 
 
22 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review
Operating review continued
Adding value to products and 
customers:
>  Working closely with our customers
>  Developing products, increasing  
our design content
>  Using award-winning computer- 
aided design tools
>  Supplying interconnect and 
power-cable solutions We are now engaged in application-specific solutions, 
across both connector and cable design solutions, 
requiring a much deeper engineering support than we 
previously provided. For products outside our areas of 
expertise, we have established partnerships with 
specialist providers.
Our engineers work closely with our key customers, in 
many cases operating on site at customer locations. 
This approach had led to the introduction of Volex 
bill-of-materials (BOM) content and new manufacturing 
processes that have delivered reduced costs and better 
performance for our customers whilst achieving 
improved margins for Volex.
Looking forward, we are confident that the market for 
healthcare equipment will continue to grow across both 
developed and developing countries; for example the 
demand for MRI scan procedures is expected to grow 
3–5% per annum worldwide. Our aim is to target new 
high-growth segments, such as patient monitoring and 
home healthcare, and to drive up sales in new territories 
such as Japan. In addition, exploiting our local 
manufacturing sites will enable us to penetrate the  
major developing markets.
Consumer
Whilst the global consumer-products market is 
recovering, growth rates vary across regions and 
segments. There is strong momentum in Asia, which 
contrasts with the USA, where unemployment remains 
high, and Europe, where domestic consumption 
remains slow. With 75% of our shipments in FY2010 
taking place in Asia, we are well positioned in the higher 
growth markets.
Growth in flat-panel LCD televisions (LCD TV) and 
personal computing (PC) markets is driving demand. Key 
factors influencing the LCD TV market include the 
continuous reduction of retail prices, the coming World 
Cup in South Africa and innovation such as high 
definition and 3D technologies. PC demand is being 
driven by institutional spending, as economies recover, 
the affordability of notebooks and tablet PCs, such as 
the Apple iPad, and the new Microsoft Windows 7.  
We have focused our sales resources into these highly 
attractive consumer markets, tailoring products and 
solutions to match market requirements. As a result the 
LCD TV and PC markets now account for approximately 
55% of our Consumer sector’s revenues.  
In a tough market, revenues for the year were 9% down 
on 2009, at £139.4m (2009: £152.5m) reflecting weak 
economies, particularly in the USA and Europe. 
However, the revenue profile showed a positive growth 
trajectory, increasing quarter on quarter from £30.7m in 
Q1 to £38.5m in Q4.  
Demand was difficult to predict as our customers 
faced considerable market uncertainty. Despite this, 
we were able to meet their extremely short lead-time 
for orders, enabling us to maintain our preferred 
vendor position and to win new customers. During  
the financial year, we won several important orders 
totalling £22.6m from leading brands including Apple, 
Toshiba, Sony, HP , Lenovo, Samsung and Microsoft. 
We will continue to focus on our strategic partnerships 
with the leading consumer electronics manufacturers 
to increase revenues and capitalise on opportunities  
in Asia and Europe. 
The development of environmentally-friendly products 
is paramount to our R&D focus in the Consumer sector. 
In FY2010 Volex’s customers have increased their 
demand for ‘green’ products. In response, we have 
developed industry leading power products, including 
products compliant with ‘EU REACH’ (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals) 
as well as halogen-free (HF) and Phthalate-free 
products. HF initiatives contributed 5% of revenue in 
the Consumer sector in Q4 of FY2010 and we expect 
demand to double next year. 
We have also added video transmission products to our 
portfolio. These products include DisplayPort cable 
assembly jumpers, developed in compliance with the 
digital display interface standards set by the Video 
Electronics Standards Association (VESA). We are 
already working with customers on their product 
development of 3D-ready TVs. Sales for this next-
generation product are forecast to reach 64 million  
units in 2018. 
As part of our strategy to move up the value chain, we 
conduct regular safety seminars in Japan, China, Korea 
and Malaysia, attended by our major customers. 
Looking forward, growth is returning, particularly in 
Asia. We will continue to focus on the fast growing PC 
and LCD TV markets to capitalise on our strong market 
position. Development of HF materials and alternative 
sourcing to meet the growing demand for 
environmentally-friendly products will remain a priority. 
Sales will focus on extending our customer base 
beyond our well-established global OEM relationships 
into new developing markets in Brazil, Russia, India  
and China.
Industrial 
The Industrial sector for Volex comprises a diverse  
set of markets but offers some of the most exciting 
growth prospects. These markets include test and 
measurement equipment, manufacturing automation, 
refrigeration, trucking telematics, and renewable energy.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23  Demand in the Industrial sector returned to growth in 
FY2010, as companies invested once more in 
automation and increased capacity. We saw an 
increase in orders in the second half of the year, a trend 
that has continued into the new financial year.
A new product developed for the trucking telematics 
sector has been one of our successes in the financial 
year. Of the £11.0m revenue from the Industrial sector 
in FY2010, 70% was secured from the truck-fleet 
telematics segment, where we worked closely with our 
main customers to develop the new product which 
was quickly adopted by major trucking companies 
and led to strong bookings and revenue in the second 
half of the year.
New products are being developed for the renewable 
energy market, for example junction boxes with 
properties unique to the solar industry. Long life-cycle 
and environmental requirements have yielded new 
manufacturing techniques and material considerations. 
With many new companies forming in this segment, the 
development of a full range of products to support the 
solar market will continue into next year, and we are 
now providing engineering and design advice to 
customers and partners.
Looking forward, the renewable energy market will be 
a key area of focus, building relationships with market 
leaders. This will include the solar and wind markets 
providing solutions for fuel cell and smart grid 
technologies, capitalising on our global footprint and 
interconnect knowledge.
Manufacturing operations and supply chain
Volex has nine manufacturing locations, six in Asia,  
two in the Americas and one in Europe supported by 
various local hubs to ensure we can deliver fast 
response times and minimise our customers’ inventory.
Laying the foundations for growth 
During the first half of the financial year we reduced 
manufacturing capacity to match the reduced market 
demand at that time, cutting headcount, both direct 
and indirect, and undertaking a number of other 
cost-cutting activities. In the second half of the year, as 
sales stabilised, the emphasis switched to positioning 
ourselves for a return to growth and ensuring we can 
move more quickly than our competitors when 
manufacturing volumes start to pick up. We are now in 
a strong position to exploit our existing infrastructure to 
deliver rapid and controlled growth. Many of our 
factories are operating on one or two shifts giving 
significant scope to expand our capacity quickly.
We began implementing a new LEAN manufacturing 
strategy due for completion in FY2011. This will 
increase productivity and asset utilisation and also 
improve the output product quality through rigorous 
process improvement approaches and enhanced 
process standardisation.
24 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review
Operating review continued The operations team are working very closely with 
each of the sector sales teams to characterise their 
market and customer needs – identifying the 
technologies, capabilities and capacities that we 
need in each location to meet the needs of our 
customers. In this way we can design operations and 
supply chain strategies tailored to the needs of these 
different customer groups. One recent example is 
where we worked with the installation engineers at 
our customer’s factory and identified several design 
modifications for our product that make it easier for 
their technicians to install.
Transforming our operational performance
We have embarked on an operational transformation 
programme that is aimed at enhancing the value we 
deliver for our customers and eliminating the waste 
from all aspects of our operations. We continue to 
make investments in new process technology aimed 
at improving our product quality and cost. Examples 
include the use of lasers for applications like welding 
and marking/printing and the use of advanced test 
methodologies to help optimise process parameters 
for complex high-speed data cable assemblies.
Data-driven management processes are being 
introduced, linked to the business strategy. Every 
function has a set of goals aligned to achieve the 
Company targets and a governance process 
designed to ensure we stay on track. Deviations from 
the plan can now be made visible much more rapidly 
so that any correcting actions can be taken. These 
are supported by collaboration tools that allow all 
areas of the business to communicate with each 
other and share their ideas for improvement.
Managing our supply chain
During the financial year, our supply chain team began 
working as a single global team, moving away from the 
regional silos that had existed previously. We have 
started the journey of process standardisation with 
purchase price variance reporting and supplier 
management tools being implemented on the same 
platform during the course of the year. The team made 
some significant strides during the year with materials 
cost reductions exceeding our budgeted plans while at 
the same time reducing our supply base by close to 400 
suppliers globally.
Increasing commodity prices, particularly for copper, 
were a challenge during the second half of the year. 
While price increases are ultimately passed onto our 
end customers, timing delays can introduce volatility 
into our financial results. Processes to minimise this 
impact were established in the year, primarily involving 
the use of purchase and sale contracts to more 
closely align committed customer orders with 
purchases from suppliers.
We are anticipating continued cost challenges in key 
commodities such as copper and PVC during FY2011.  
In spite of these cost challenges the team is pressing 
forward with aggressive targets to bring material costs 
down, streamline suppliers and reduce working capital.
Going into FY2011 we expect our team to continue to 
develop. We will be evolving into a commodity team 
structure during the year so that we can focus in detail 
on costs and suppliers in key areas.
Technology capabilities and  
product development
In-depth engineering expertise is one of Volex’s 
key strengths. We have continued to enhance our 
engineering capabilities internally and also to develop 
our external engineering workforce who engage with 
customers on-site regarding application specific 
solutions. As part of our strategy, Volex is seeking to 
increase the proportion of our revenue resulting from 
products with our own design content and this will 
include ‘end-to-end’ solutions which address the entire 
signal transmission path from the cable (plug) to the 
board or box receptacles.
Enhancing our technical capabilities worldwide
In North America, we have already engaged with 
customers beyond the level of cable assemblies. Volex 
has taken on ‘next level’ assembly activity for several 
customers completing system sub-assembly builds for 
these key partners. This allows customers to reduce 
costs and enables them to focus on their core design 
capabilities using the manufacturing expertise of Volex 
for the product assembly activity. Applying a 
strengthened team of field application engineers (FAEs) 
we have completed several projects where customers 
have outsourced key activities to the Volex facility in 
Tijuana, Mexico. In some cases we have embedded 
engineers at customer sites to contribute expertise for 
the interconnect solutions for system level designs at 
the product concept stage. This leads to more cost-
effective, application-specific solutions for the 
interconnect needs of the products involved.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25  In Europe, Volex has achieved ISO 13485 certification for 
design and development activity as well as strengthening 
the FAE teams who are similarly embedded within key 
customers. Computer-aided engineering tools have been 
added such as mold-flow analysis which are intended to 
assist in ‘getting it right the first time’ leading to 
accelerated product development.
Our Chinese operations have been strengthened 
considerably by increasing our FAE resources and 
engineering skills in printed circuit board connector 
design, signal integrity testing and materials 
engineering. A programme to further strengthen FO 
product development is in place where we intend to 
grow our design and test-level competencies beyond 
those that presently exist in North America and Europe. 
In India, Volex has aggressively built up resources to 
extend support to customers participating in the huge 
expansion of mobile communications. This support 
includes FAEs as well as product manufacturing/test for 
all technologies such as RF and FO, adding to existing 
strengths for power products. Future plans include 
adding antenna manufacture / test competencies to the 
factory in Chennai to complement our successful 
basestation installation kits business.
New product development 
In such a fast moving market, innovation is an essential 
criterion for success and our new product development 
throughout the past year was significant for all 
technologies and market sectors.
New products were introduced into all our sectors and 
the details of these are covered in the sector reviews on 
pages 20 to 24. A key area of focus has been on 
developing environmentally-friendly products, and the 
‘green drive’ will be a key component of all new product 
development in the coming year. We have made 
significant advances in the power cord market, where we 
are market leader, and our overall product portfolio has 
extended to include a new line of outdoor FO solutions 
that are patent protected and a complete family of 
high-speed data transmission products. 
Contributing to industry standards
Volex is an influential member of a number of leading 
industry standards bodies for our product portfolio.
For the Telecoms/Datacoms markets, Volex participates 
actively in the following Standards Committees to assist 
in the development of product performance 
specifications: Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers (IEEE), Infiniband Trade Association (IBTA), 
Ethernet Alliance (EA), Small Computer System Interface 
Trade Association (STA), Video Electronics Standards 
Association (VESA) and Fiber to the Home (FTTH).
And in support of our ‘green’ and safety initiatives 
Volex participates in the following committees: 
European Safety Standards, China Technical 
Committee TCO7, BIS (India Safety Standards)  
and CNS (Taiwan Safety Standards).
This activity allows us to gain early sight of emerging 
standards, an important contributor to keeping our 
product development at the forefront of the industry. It 
also enables us to influence the direction and content 
of the next generation of standards, reflecting our 
position as a leading player in the industry.
People, systems and processes 
The current financial year has seen wide ranging 
people changes. The Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director were appointed just before the 
start of the year. Their arrival has been followed by an 
entirely new executive management team comprising 
the Operations, Sales & Marketing and Human 
Resources Directors. A number of new roles have 
been created and filled heading the Marketing, 
Information Technology, Commercial Finance and 
Business Assurance functions. The relocation of the 
Group’s head office from Warrington to London 
marked a key point in revitalising the Group and was 
26 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review
Operating review continued successfully completed in July 2009. The finance 
function in particular has been strengthened – both in 
head office and also with the appointment of three 
new regional Finance Directors in North America, 
Europe and India. The migration to a market and 
sector focused sales organisation has required 
increased levels of skills in several key sales positions 
as well as additional training for existing personnel.
After several years of under-investment the Group is 
also making significant but affordable improvements in 
its information technology and systems. BPCS, the 
Group-wide manufacturing and financial ledger system, 
is being upgraded for the first time since 2001. As part 
of this we will be introducing standard costing across 
the Group during 2010. Tagetik, a new corporate 
performance management system for financial 
consolidations and budgeting was implemented during 
the year as well as Qlikview, our new business 
intelligence system. Saleforce.com was successfully 
piloted as a new customer relationship management 
system within the Healthcare sector and will be rolled 
out to the rest of the Group during 2010. We are also in 
the process of upgrading our IT infrastructure. We have 
upgraded our core AS400 systems, while outsourcing 
the hosting of these together with the associated high 
availability backup and disaster recovery, and we are in 
the process of consolidating to a single Group-wide 
data network. We have also worked on harmonising the 
data structures and definitions around the Group, 
including for the first time a common Group-wide chart 
of accounts, and this will remain a key area of focus in 
the current financial year. 
“ The relocation of the Group’s head 
office from Warrington to London 
marked a key point in revitalising  
the Group and was successfully 
completed in July 2009.”
Progress is also being made towards standardising 
processes across the Group. New product 
development processes have been introduced to 
improve speed to market. Common sales techniques 
are being rolled out across the sectors and new 
capital expenditure approval processes are being 
introduced to help target resources and speed the 
decision making process. For the first time the nine 
factories are being managed in a co-ordinated 
manner, rather than by region, with best practices 
being shared across the Group and production being 
sourced from wherever can provide it in the most 
timely and cost-effective way.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27  Management of principal risks
The Group has an established risk management framework 
which is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group. Within this 
framework we classify risks into four distinct categories 
according to their potential impact on the Group.
Strategic – risks impacting long-term strategic objectives
Operational – risks arising during day-to-day activities 
which if not managed could impact upon the running of  
the business
Financial – risks directly impacting upon the financial 
condition of the business
Compliance – risks relating to legal and regulatory 
sanctions and damage to goodwill arising from failure  
to comply with applicable laws and regulations
Principal risks and uncertainties
Customer concentration
A significant proportion of the Group’s trading activity is 
with a relatively small number of large global accounts. 
Approximately three quarters of total Group revenue is 
generated by the Group’s top 25 customers, mostly 
prestigious global OEMs. Two of the Group’s customers 
individually account for more than 10% of total Group 
revenue, with the Group’s largest customer, operating in 
the wireless infrastructure sector, accounting for 11% 
of total Group revenue. 
In practice these key global customers operate across a 
number of different business sectors and regions with 
somewhat independent customer relationships in each 
of the sectors and geographies. The loss of business in 
one particular geography or sector would not necessarily 
result in the loss of all of that customer’s business.
The Group continues to mitigate the risk of fluctuations 
in revenues from these customers through closer 
trading relationships with individual customers while 
diversifying into other customers and market segments.
Counter party risk
The Group regularly reviews the credit worthiness of all 
customers and operates appropriate credit limits to 
manage the exposure to any given customer. The 
degree of customer concentration inherent in the 
Group’s business means that the Group has substantial 
credit exposure to a few key customers. Typically, 
however, these key customers are large, blue chip 
OEMs for whom the risk of default is relatively low. The 
Group had no material bad debt write-offs in the year.
The Group is also dependent upon a limited number of 
suppliers, particularly in respect of cable materials. 
However, the Board believes that in the event of one 
of these suppliers failing to honour its obligations to 
the Group, alternative sources of supply could be 
engaged without substantial disruption to the 
business, nor any material financial loss.
Commodity prices
Many of the Group’s products, in particular power 
cords used in the Consumer sector, are manufactured 
from components that contain significant proportions 
of copper and, to a lesser extent, other metals and 
oil-based products such as PVC. Increases in the 
prices of these commodities are reflected in the prices 
charged to our customers but delays in passing 
through these cost changes can cause short-term 
volatility in the Group’s gross margins and working 
capital requirements.
Copper price volatility is the single largest commodity 
price exposure facing the Group. The graph on the 
facing page illustrates how LME copper spot  
prices have fluctuated during the two year period  
to 4 April 2010.
The Board regularly reviews the prices of these 
commodities and effects a number of measures to 
mitigate the impact of excessive volatility. With respect 
to copper specifically these include, but are not limited 
to, the use of purchase and sale contracts to more 
closely align committed customer orders with 
purchases from suppliers, to reduce the volatility 
caused by the time lag between purchase from  
supplier and sale to customer.
Management assume that during FY2011 
copper will continue in the range of US$7,000 
– US$8,000 / ton. 
28 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review Foreign exchange
A substantial portion of the Group’s revenues and 
expenditures are denominated in US Dollars and 
Euros. During the financial year Sterling appreciated 
by 3% against the US Dollar and by 2% against  
the Euro.
The Group’s costs and revenues are broadly 
denominated in the same currencies. For example,  
the majority of US Dollar denominated revenues are 
serviced from locations where the costs are incurred in 
US Dollars or US Dollar related currencies and likewise 
for the Euro. As such there is no significant trading 
advantage or disadvantage resulting from these 
currency movements.
The main impact of these movements is in the 
translation of foreign currency denominated income 
and expenses in the Consolidated Income 
Statement and foreign currency denominated assets 
and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position. The impact of foreign exchange 
movements on the Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position is mitigated by a natural hedge 
arising as a result of the Group’s US Dollar and Euro 
denominated borrowings. 
The principal exchange rates used in the year  
were as follows:
  Period end rate Average rate
  (Balance sheet) (Income statement)
 FY2010 FY2009 FY2010 FY2009
US Dollar 1.517 1.474 1.596 1.705
Euro 1.121 1.096 1.129 1.198
Competition
The Group’s markets are highly competitive and we 
expect this competition will continue in the future.  
Our overall competitive position depends on a number 
of factors including the price, quality and performance 
of our products, the level of customer service, the 
development of new technology and our ability to 
participate in emerging markets. Competition may 
intensify from various international competitors and 
new market entrants and our markets have become 
increasingly concentrated and global. Increased 
competition may result in price reductions, reduced 
margins or loss of market share, any of which could 
materially and adversely affect our business and 
trading performance.
Exposure to global economic conditions
The Group’s business and trading performance have 
been and will continue to be affected by global 
economic conditions. As global economic conditions 
deteriorate or economic uncertainty increases, our 
customers and potential customers may experience 
deterioration of their businesses, which may result in 
the delay or cancellation of plans to purchase our 
products. This may have a material adverse effect  
on the Group’s trading results.
10,000
9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Copper spot prices US$ / T on
Mar-08
May-08
Jul-08
Sep-08
Nov-08
Jan-09
Mar-09
May-09
Jul-09
Sep-09
Nov-09
Jan-10
Mar-10
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29  Corporate responsibility
At Volex we are committed to the 
operation of a responsible business 
model and to the delivery of our 
corporate responsibility strategy. For 
us it makes sound business sense.
The Board has adopted a Code of Business Conduct 
(the ‘Code of Conduct’) which applies to the entire 
Volex Group of companies. It is circulated through the 
unit Managing Directors to all employees via the normal 
regional communication channels and is available on 
the Company’s website (www.volex.com) and also in 
hard copy from the Company Secretary. 
This Code of Conduct is the foundation on which we 
build and conduct our business and we expect all Volex 
employees to support all elements of the policy. 
The Code of Conduct is based on the commitments 
set out above and outlines specific minimum 
standards in respect of five particular areas. 
These deal with corporate conduct regarding our 
employees; health and safety; the environment; 
relationships with various stakeholder groups; and  
the personal conduct of everyone employed by the 
Group. The Code of Conduct concludes with the 
outline of a compliance process, which reflects our 
normal management structures.
Corporate conduct and employment practices
In all aspects of our business we seek to operate in 
compliance with the law, rules and regulations of the 
country of operation and this applies to all areas of our 
Code of Conduct. However, in a number of areas we 
look to establish specific minimum standards, which 
will override any lower legal requirements. For example, 
in our employment practices we will not use indentured 
or forced labour, we will not employ anyone under 16 
years of age and we do not discriminate on the basis of 
sex, colour, race, religious belief, disability, age, sexual 
orientation or marital status.
Health and safety
In matters of health and safety we will provide a safe 
and clean working environment with systems and 
procedures of a standard at least equivalent to those  
of comparable manufacturing companies of good 
reputation in the geographical area of operation. 
The Board receives reports on the health and safety 
performance of the Group. Our regional operations 
have adopted formal health and safety policy 
statements and continue to execute specific health  
and safety programmes to improve identified risks.  
We collect and review various performance data 
ranging from monthly key performance indicators  
to annual insurance claims records and use these  
to identify areas for further improvement.
Environment
We are committed to meeting the needs of our 
customers in an environmentally sound and sustainable 
manner through continuous improvement in all 
activities, using the best available technology without 
incurring excessive cost. 
At Volex we work towards the requirements stated in 
the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.  
As part of this system we review our environmental 
objectives and targets on a regular basis and ensure 
continuous improvement. Our plan is to achieve the 
international environmental standard ISO 14001 in all 
our manufacturing locations over a number of years.  
At the date of this report, certification has been 
achieved at each of our three facilities in China, at our 
two facilities in Indonesia and at facilities in Vietnam 
and Poland. These sites are now maintaining and 
improving their environmental management systems to 
retain their ISO 14001 certification status. A number of 
other locations are developing their systems with a view 
to applying for certification in the future. 
The Restriction of Hazardous Substances (‘RoHS’) and 
the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (‘WEEE’) 
Regulations, both of which are aimed at reducing 
hazardous materials content in products as well as 
increasing the recycling of products, are applicable to 
the electronic sector. Volex ensures that special 
formulated compound materials are part of the sourcing 
and engineering services in order that compliance with 
RoHS is met by both Volex and its customers. Volex is 
recognised by its customers for its policy of being a 
total RoHS compliant organisation. Volex also ensures 
that the design of its products is aimed at reducing their 
environmental impact in terms of production, product 
usage and disposal, which will assist producers in their 
compliance with the WEEE Regulation. 
30 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review Volex is committed to:
>  Respecting the rule of law, 
conducting our business with 
integrity and showing respect for 
the rights of the individual; 
>  Creating mutual advantage in all our 
relationships so that people both 
inside and outside the Group trust 
us and want to work with us; 
>  Demonstrating respect for the 
environment and working 
continuously to improve business 
processes and practices to reduce 
the impact of our operations; and 
>  Managing our financial performance 
to maximise long-term value for our 
shareholders.
Relationships with stakeholder groups
The standards we set ourselves in our relationships 
with our various groups of stakeholders are typified 
by the values of honesty, respect, diligence and 
professionalism. The Board has identified a number 
of key values, which it expects all employees to apply 
to their work and which are intended to enhance 
teamwork, collaboration, integrity, diversity, 
commitment and community. These values are the 
common thread linking our communications with 
shareholders, our business relationships with 
customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and agents, 
our interaction with local communities around the 
world and all our dealings with employees.
Standards of personal conduct
The Group relies on its employees as individuals to 
practise the highest moral and ethical standards in all 
their business activities. While we fully respect the 
privacy of employees’ personal lives, we expect all 
employees to conduct their personal affairs so that  
the performance of their obligations to the Group is  
not prejudiced and the reputation of the Group 
is maintained.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31  Board of Directors
4.
2. 5.
3. 6.
1.
32 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review 1. Mike McTighe 
Chairman
Mike McTighe, 56, was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Board on 1 March 2008. He is a 
member of the Remuneration Committee and 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Mike is  
also chairman of Pace plc and a board member of 
Ofcom. Mike was previously a non-executive director 
of Alliance & Leicester plc, a director of London Metal 
Exchange Holdings and chairman and chief executive 
officer of Carrier International SA. Prior to that Mike 
was executive director and chief executive, global 
operations of Cable & Wireless plc. Mike has also held 
senior roles with Philips, Motorola and GE and has 
more than 30 years’ experience in the TMT  
sector worldwide.
2. Ray Walsh
Group Chief Executive 
Ray Walsh, 45, was appointed Group Chief Executive 
on 6 April 2009. He served previously as chief 
executive of VIA NET.WORKS Inc. servicing global 
clients from its head office in Amsterdam and 
immediately prior to joining Volex he led the 
operations, technology, products, communications 
and research of a leading market research firm in the 
US. Ray has more than 20 years’ experience in 
technology leadership and, for more than half of his 
career, held senior executive roles with international 
and global organisations. Ray has led numerous 
organisational and technological integrations in global 
technology and telecommunications concerns in 
addition to driving sales and operational transformations 
in both large scale and venture capital backed firms. 
3. Andrew Cherry
Group Finance Director 
Andrew Cherry, 43, was appointed Group Finance 
Director on 19 February 2009, having held the  
position of Interim Finance Director since 5 January 
2009. Andrew was previously chief financial officer  
of SpinVox Limited and prior to that had held a 
number of executive positions including that of chief 
financial controller of Vodafone UK, chief financial 
officer of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd and chief 
financial officer of GoIndustry Plc. He has also held 
positions in B.A.T. Plc, PricewaterhouseCoopers and 
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young. Andrew holds an MBA 
from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management, 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants  
of England and Wales and has a Bachelors degree 
in Physics.
4. Richard Arkle
Non-Executive Director 
Richard Arkle, 61, joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 20 April 2005. Richard was Chairman of 
the Board from 6 May 2006 until 1 March 2008, when 
he resumed the role of a Non-Executive Director. He is 
currently Chairman of the Audit Committee. Richard 
was a partner at KPMG LLP (and predecessor 
practices) from 1 October 1982 until he retired on 30 
September 2004, where as a senior partner, he played 
a key role in developing the transactions services 
practice into a UK market leadership position. Richard 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
England and Wales and has extensive experience in a 
range of businesses across a number of market 
sectors. Richard also provides consultancy services 
to a variety of businesses and professional firms. 
5. Chris Geoghegan
Senior Independent Director 
Chris Geoghegan, 55, was appointed a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 March 2008 and became the Board’s 
Senior Independent Director with effect from 31 December 
2008. Chris is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. 
Chris is also chairman of Hampson Industries plc and a 
non-executive director of Kier Group plc. Up until 31 
December 2007, Chris was the group director of BAE 
Systems plc, responsible for all European joint ventures; 
the company’s commercial aerospace interests as well as 
the UK wholly-owned electronics business and shared 
services. Chris is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical 
Society and was previously President of the Society of 
British Aerospace Companies.
6. Karen Slatford
Non-Executive Director 
Karen Slatford, 53, was appointed a Non-Executive 
Director on 27 May 2008 and is also a member of the 
Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Karen is currently chairman of Neverfail Group and the 
Foundry Visionmongers. Karen was previously a 
non-executive director for HAL Knowledge Solutions, 
Portwise AB and Compel Group plc. Between 1983 and 
2001 Karen was employed by Hewlett Packard Ltd and 
whilst working across various capacities and roles, was 
focused on improving the Group’s sales and marketing 
throughout the UK and globally. In 2000, Karen was 
appointed chairman of Hewlett Packard UK Ltd and 
also undertook the position of vice president and 
general manager worldwide of sales and marketing, 
business customer organisation until 2001.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33  Governance
34 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Corporate governance report
Volex Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities. The Company is 
committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued 
in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council (‘the Code’) for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the Code
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the 
52 week period ended 4 April 2010 (the ‘Year’) and up to the date of reporting except for the following matters. 
During the Year, the Board evaluated its own performance through an extensive questionnaire sent to each director, the responses 
for which were considered and addressed by the Chairman and the findings were distributed to each director. It was not 
considered appropriate to conduct either Committee or individual performance evaluations (section A.6.1) due to the position of 
company secretary being held on an interim basis in the year. However, it is the intention to do so during the next financial year 
after a permanent appointment has been made.
In accordance with section A.3.1 of the Code, the Board has considered whether each of the Non-Executive Directors is 
independent in character and judgement. It has concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent, after having 
reviewed the following factors that may, from a distance, cast doubt over their independence.
Richard Arkle, a Non-Executive Director and former Chairman of the Company, held a Share Appreciation Right, which has lapsed 
during the year. 
Pursuant to her letter of appointment, Karen Slatford is required to devote a minimum of 25 days to the Company each year to 
perform her duties as a Non-Executive Director. Karen’s letter of appointment provides that in the event that she is required to 
devote time to the Company outside of those 25 days, then she will be paid a daily rate of £1,500. 
Following approval by the shareholders of the Volex Group plc Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive scheme (“Non-
Executive LTIS”) at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 5 December 2008, awards were made during the year to Mike McTighe, 
Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford. Full details of the scheme, and awards made, are given on pages 41 to 42 and pages 44 to 
45 of the Remuneration Report, respectively. 
The view of the Board is that these factors do not compromise the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, as they have 
each applied an objective approach and demonstrated both dedication and integrity in their roles as Non-Executive Directors and 
the Board has no reason to believe that this will change in the future. 
Statement of how the principles of the Code have been applied
The following paragraphs together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 38 to 45 and the Directors’ Report 
set out on pages 47 to 48 describe how the principles of the Code have been applied.
Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board consider to  
be independent, as stated above, together with two Executive Directors. The biographies of the Directors can be found on  
pages 32 to 33.
The Board of Directors views its size and composition to be satisfactory in that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate 
for the business of the Group. 
On appointment, Directors receive an induction to the business and are briefed on the activities of the Group. In addition, the 
Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that any new Director has access to appropriate training and advice in relation to 
the duties of Directors and receive regular updates. The Directors are also encouraged to update and refresh their skills 
and knowledge.
Details of those Directors who will be offering themselves for re-election can be found on page 48 of the Directors’ Report. 
Directors’ and officers’ insurance against legal action is in place providing cover for Directors and certain key officials of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. The Company has also granted qualifying third party indemnities to the Directors, which remain in 
force, copies of which will be available for inspection at the forthcoming AGM.  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35  
Board and Committee meetings
The Board is scheduled to meet at least ten times a year and during the year it in fact met 13 times, some meetings having been 
called at short notice. From time to time the Board also meets by telephone conference call to discuss ad hoc issues. The table 
below summarises the attendance by Board or Committee members at meetings held during the year.
      Audit  Remuneration  Nomination 
     Board Committee Committee Committee 
     13 meetings 3 meetings 9 meetings 1 meetings
Richard Arkle     13 3 – –
Andrew Cherry     13 3 – –
Chris Geoghegan     11 2 9 1
Mike McTighe     13 – 9 1
Karen Slatford     12 2 9 1
Ray Walsh     11 – – –
The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, 
setting its agenda and also ensuring that each Director is in receipt of adequate information before making decisions. 
The Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders and makes himself available to meet with shareholders. As 
Chairman, Mike McTighe also facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensures constructive relations 
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Chris Geoghegan, as the Senior Independent Director, makes himself available 
to meet with shareholders. The Chief Executive, Ray Walsh, is responsible for running the Group’s business and leads the 
execution of the Group’s strategy. The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and both the 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. The Board has adopted a policy under 
which the Directors are able to take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are responsible to the Board for the timeliness and 
quality of all financial information submitted to the Board. The Company Secretary is responsible for the timeliness and quality of 
all other information submitted to the Board and for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance issues. The normal 
procedure is to distribute Board papers one week in advance of meetings.
The Board has a formal list of matters specifically reserved to it including reviewing business performance, all major strategy, 
policy and investment decisions affecting the Group and the development of Group policies in a number of areas including health 
and safety, social, ethical and environmental issues and insurance.
The Board approves each sector’s annual business plan and budget, which is prepared by the senior management of each 
respective sector and which are compared with the monthly management accounts. The Executive Directors are required to 
comment on any areas where performance departs from current expectations and any significant variances are discussed by the 
Board and appropriate action taken. If considered appropriate the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman visit operations and the 
Board meets with senior operational management throughout the Group in order to further enhance its understanding of the 
Group’s key developments.
The procedures which have been adopted enable the Board to make informed decisions on a range of key issues including those 
relating to strategy and risk management.
Board Committees
The Board has established the following Committees, each of which has adopted written terms of reference dealing clearly with 
the Committee’s authority and duties. These were reviewed during the year and are available on request and on the Company’s 
website (www.volex.com). In addition, the Board has established a number of other Committees, such as the Finance Committee 
and the Sealing Committee and also establishes ad hoc Committees from time to time to deal with specific issues.
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprised Mike McTighe, who is Chairman of the Committee, Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford.
Board appointments are considered initially by the Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the full Board 
for further consideration and approval. In performing its duties the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board, which enables it to determine the roles and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment. The Nomination Committee takes advice from a variety of sources including external recruitment consultants when 
considered appropriate.The Board seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.  
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee. Governance
36 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
The Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee were Chris 
Geoghegan, who is Chairman of the Committee, Mike McTighe 
and Karen Slatford. The Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to the Committee. The structure and business of the 
Remuneration Committee is summarised in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprised Richard Arkle, Chairman of 
the Committee, Karen Slatford and Chris Geoghegan. 
Richard Arkle is regarded by the Board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
Financial Controller and the Director of Business Assurance  
are invited to attend regular meetings; however the Audit 
Committee also meets without the Executive Directors being 
present at least once a year.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company and the Group together with any 
formal announcements in relation to the Group’s financial 
performance. It reviews the Group’s internal financial controls 
and also reviews the scope and effectiveness of the internal 
audit function, although the Group’s internal control and risk 
management processes are considered by the Board as a 
whole. The Audit Committee recommends to the Board the 
appointment and re-appointment of the external auditors. It 
considers the scope and results of the external audit, its cost 
effectiveness and the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. Furthermore, the Audit Committee monitors the 
independence and objectivity of the auditors and the nature and 
extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditor by 
analysing fees for audit and non-audit work; by receiving from, 
and discussing with, the auditors their annual report regarding 
their independence policies and procedures; and by receiving 
from the auditors confirmation that they have complied with 
APB Ethical Standards. 
During the year the Committee reviewed the provision of overall 
assurance within the Group, including a review of external audit 
arrangements. As part of this review, the Committee considered 
proposals from its then auditors, Deloitte LLP, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and KPMG LLP. The Committee, 
jointly with the Board, concluded on balance that the proposal 
from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP should be accepted and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were appointed as external 
auditors to the Company and Group in June 2009. Deloitte LLP 
submitted their resignation and formally confirmed there were 
no matters concerning their resignation that needed to be 
brought to the shareholders’ attention.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors in connection with 
the financial statements are explained in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement in the Directors’ Report and in the 
Auditors’ Report. The Directors seek to ensure the independence 
of the auditors by requesting an annual confirmation of 
independence, which includes the disclosure of all non-audit fees. 
Internal controls
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of this system. Such a system is designed to 
identify, evaluate and control the significant risks associated 
with the Group’s achievement of its business objectives with a 
view to safeguarding shareholders’ investments and the 
Group’s assets. Because of the limitations that are inherent in 
any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet 
the Company’s particular needs and the risks to which it is 
exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk. 
Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Combined Code Turnbull Guidance on 
internal control, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group. This process, which has been largely 
informal during the year ended 4 April 2010, and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, will be further 
developed and formalised in the next financial year.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing 
the Group’s system of internal control and in reviewing its 
effectiveness. To identify and manage key risks, it has 
established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and 
standards, has set up a framework for reporting and escalating 
matters of significance, has authorised the Audit Committee to 
undertake reviews of the effectiveness of management actions 
in controlling the intensity of key Group risks identified by the 
Board, has developed a system of regular reports from 
management setting out key performance and risk indicators 
and has reserved specific, key matters for its decision. This 
process is designed to provide assurance by way of cumulative 
assessment and is embedded in operational management and 
governance processes.
Key elements of the Group’s system of internal control which 
have operated throughout the year are:
a clearly defined organisation structure with established •	
responsibilities
a simple and focused business strategy, thus restricting •	
potential risk exposures
Group financial, business conduct, operating and •	
administrative policies and procedures which incorporate 
statements of required behaviour
continuous review of operating performance •	
monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting •	
system, including monthly results, annual budgets, and 
periodic forecasts
a centrally co-ordinated business assurance programme •	
which uses both internal and external resource to support 
the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment
completion by business unit management of an annual •	
internal control assessment confirming compliance with 
Group policies and procedures, detailing controls in 
operation and listing any weaknesses
The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour as an 
integral part of the overall governance framework and believes 
that it should be fully integrated into management structures 
and systems. Therefore the risk management policies, 
procedures and monitoring methods described above apply 
equally to the identification, evaluation and control of Volex’s 
safety, ethical and environmental risks and opportunities. This 
approach has enabled the Company to comply with the 
disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of British 
Insurers on socially responsible investment which require listed 
companies to report to shareholders and give assurance that 
the Company is managing its risks in these matters.
The Board has completed its annual review of the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control for the year to 4 April 2010 and 
Corporate governance report continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37  
is satisfied that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance. 
The assessment included consideration of the effectiveness of 
the Board’s on-going process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the risks facing the Group.
Whistle-blowing policy
The Company has adopted a whistle-blowing policy, which is 
available to employees on the Group’s website and onsite 
notice boards.
The aim of the policy is to encourage all employees, regardless 
of seniority, to bring matters which cause them concern to the 
attention of the Audit Committee. 
Relations with shareholders
The Board has continued to establish and maintain a mutual 
understanding of objectives between the Group and its 
institutional shareholders by making annual and half-year 
presentations to institutional investors and stock broking 
analysts and meeting with potential and existing institutional 
shareholders. It is the Group’s policy that all Directors attend the 
AGM and the Board encourages all shareholders to attend and 
participate at the AGM to enable it to be a forum for substantive 
communication with investors. Governance
38 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’). The Report also meets the 
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and the Combined Code (the ‘Code’). A 
resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the 2010 
Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial 
statements will be approved. 
The Auditors are required to report to the shareholders on 
certain sections of this Report and to state whether those 
sections have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. The Report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited information. 
The audited information commences on page 43.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee (the 
‘Committee’) were Chris Geoghegan, Chairman of the 
Committee, Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Kepler Associates is the appointed remuneration advisor to the 
Committee, and provides no other services to the Company.
None of the Committee members have any conflicts of interest 
arising from cross-Directorships or day-to-day involvement in 
running the business. The only personal financial interest that 
any of the Committee members have in the Company, other 
than as shareholders, is in respect of their participation in the 
Non-Executive LTIS scheme, details of which are given on 
pages 41 to 42 of this Remuneration Report.
During the financial period ended 4 April 2010 matters 
considered by the Committee included:
awards to be made under the Company’s existing share •	
incentive arrangements; 
new long-term incentive/pension arrangements for Executive •	
Directors and other senior executives of the Company; and
Executive Director pay benchmarking. •	
Remuneration policy
The Committee agrees with the Board of Directors of the 
Company on the broad policy for the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors and such other senior executives as 
determined by the Committee Chairman, the Group Chief 
Executive and the Company Chairman. In the context of that 
broad policy for each of the Executive Directors and senior 
executives the Committee then determines and reviews, at least 
annually, the specific remuneration packages including bonus 
plans and awards under the Company’s share incentive 
arrangements. In addition, the Committee approves the terms 
of service agreements of all Executive Directors and also the 
terms of appointment of certain senior executives. Termination 
payments are also considered by the Committee, although it is 
mindful of its duty not to reward failing performance. 
Kepler Associates assisted the Committee in determining the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration for the year. The advice 
provided by Kepler Associates showed the Executive Directors 
to be competitively paid.
The balance of this report deals solely with the remuneration 
and terms of service of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
No Director plays a part in any discussion regarding his/her  
own remuneration. 
The policy of the Committee in relation to the Executive Directors 
is to maintain remuneration packages sufficient to attract, retain 
and motivate executives of the calibre and experience necessary 
to provide a successful future for the Group. 
The fee payable to the Chairman is reviewed and determined 
annually by members of the Committee (excluding the 
Chairman) following consultation with the Group Chief Executive 
and assisted by market data provided by Kepler Associates. 
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company within the limits set 
out in the Articles of Association. 
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide a 
balanced remuneration package, which includes an appropriate 
level of basic salary and benefits-in-kind (including a pension 
provision where appropriate), together with both short-term and 
long-term incentives. Short-term incentives are linked to 
challenging targets, which support and reinforce the objectives 
of the Company. The standard long-term incentives, which are 
currently share-based awards, focus the executives on the 
sustained development of the Group and aligns their interests 
with those of the shareholders. 
There are four main elements of the remuneration package for 
Executive Directors:
basic annual salary and benefits-in-kind; •	
annual bonus payments; •	
long-term share related incentives; and •	
pension arrangements. •	
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be 
performance related and the Committee aims to provide a 
balanced remuneration package which links individual and 
corporate performance.
Basic salary
In deciding and reviewing appropriate remuneration packages, 
the Committee considers:
the positioning of the Group relative to other comparable •	
companies; 
the positioning of individual Directors relative to positions in •	
other comparable companies; 
remuneration expectations in the geographical area of •	
operation; 
surveys published by leading remuneration consultants •	
supplemented by specific advice and benchmarking 
exercises by external consultants and the knowledge and 
experience of the members of the Committee; 
remuneration relativities within the Group; •	
the competition, risks, challenges, complexity, diversity and •	
international spread of the Group’s business; and 
the particular expertise and understanding required of the •	
Directors concerned and the responsibilities undertaken.
The Committee determines Executive Directors’ basic salaries 
annually, with adjustments normally being made with effect from 
1 April.
In the event that an Executive Director is required to relocate to 
another country the Committee may award an expatriation 
allowance for a limited number of years. 
Directors’ remuneration report  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39  
In addition to basic salary and pension benefits, the Executive 
Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally a car 
allowance and fuel costs, private medical insurance, life 
assurance and assistance in the cost of relocation where 
considered appropriate.
Bonus arrangements
A discretionary annual cash bonus scheme represents the 
short-term incentive element of the overall remuneration 
package for Executive Directors. The Committee establishes 
the objectives that must be met in each financial year if a cash 
bonus is to be paid, reflecting the strategic objectives set by the 
Board for the year in question. The bonus plan for the financial 
year to 4 April 2010 was structured to reward performance 
relative to financial targets and in certain cases personal 
objectives and details of the bonuses paid to the Executive 
Directors can be found on page 43 of the Remuneration Report. 
In certain circumstances the Committee may grant special 
bonus arrangements to Executive Directors. Andrew Cherry’s 
terms of appointment, as set out in his service agreement, 
include a retention bonus equal to 50% of Andrew’s basic 
annual salary for the period 19 February 2009 to 31 March 2010 
and a further bonus to cover the period 1 April 2010 to 18 
August 2010. The first tranche of Andrew’s retention bonus, in 
respect of the period to 31 March 2010, was paid on 31 March 
2010. The second tranche is payable no earlier than 19 August 
2010, subject to Andrew having 18 months continuous 
employment with the Company. In the event that employment 
ceases at any time on or before 18 August 2010, the bonus 
becomes repayable in full. This bonus is not pensionable.
Long-term incentive schemes
Following its approval at an extraordinary general meeting of the 
Company held on 5 December 2008, Volex Group plc 
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) is the principal scheme through 
which the Company provides long term incentive arrangements 
to key executives.
The PSP replaced two legacy longterm incentive scheme 
arrangements:
Volex 1994 Share Option Scheme (‘1994 Scheme’) and Volex •	
2001 Option plan (‘Option Plan’), known together as 
Discretionary Share Option Schemes (‘DSOS’)
Volex Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) •	
Long-term incentive schemes for Non-Executive Directors in 
operation during the year were as follows:
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (‘LTIS’) •	
Share Appreciation Rights Scheme (‘SAR Scheme’) •	
Following its approval at an extraordinary general meeting of the 
Company held on 5 December 2008, the LTIS is the principal 
scheme through which the Company provides long-term 
incentive arrangements to Non-Executive Directors, replacing 
the SAR scheme.
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The principal terms of the PSP Plan are as follows:
Any nominated employees of the Company or any subsidiary •	
of the Company is eligible to participate in the PSP Plan. It is 
intended that the PSP Plan will be limited to key executives.
An award will take the form of either a nil cost option which •	
shall be granted by the trustee of an employee benefit trust 
established by the Company, or an option granted by the 
Company with an exercise price set at the nominal value of 
the Ordinary shares.
The aggregate nominal value of the Ordinary shares which •	
the Company may on any day issue for the purpose of the 
PSP Plan and any other employee share scheme operated 
by the Company shall be limited to 11% of the nominal value 
of the Ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on 
that date.
No award may be granted to a participant if the market value •	
of all shares under that award and any other awards granted 
under the PSP Plan in the same financial year will exceed 
100% of the participant’s annual salary. In exceptional 
circumstances this limit may be exceeded.
The exercise of awards granted under the PSP Plan will in •	
normal circumstances be conditional upon the achievement 
of objective performance targets set at the time of grant. 
Such performance targets shall be measured over a 
performance period (determined by the Committee at the 
time of grant but which shall not be less than three years) 
(‘the Performance Period’). The extent to which such 
performance targets are met over the Performance Period 
shall determine the extent to which the awards are capable 
of exercise.
 The Committee may waive or amend the original 
performance target provided that any such amended 
target is not more difficult to achieve than the original 
performance target:
 –  on the occurrence of a specific event or events which are 
fixed by the Committee on the grant of an award; and
 –  if events occur which cause the Committee to reasonably 
consider that a different or amended target would be a 
fairer measure of performance.
An award will normally only be capable of exercise after the •	
end of the Performance Period (subject to satisfaction of the 
performance target). However, an award may be exercised 
earlier in the event of a take-over, a scheme of arrangement 
being sanctioned by the court, the voluntary winding up of 
the Company or where the Company exercises its discretion 
on the cessation of employment of a participant (if the 
Company does not exercise such discretion then an award 
shall lapse on cessation of employment).
In all those circumstances allowing for early exercise of an •	
award, the award may not be exercised unless the 
performance condition (modified if necessary) has been 
satisfied. The number of shares over which an award may  
be granted will also be pro rated down on a time-
apportioned basis.
In relation to PSP awards granted during the financial year 
ended 4 April 2010, the Committee has determined that the 
Performance Period will be a three-year period commencing on 
the date of grant of the awards and that the awards will be 
subject to a total shareholder return target, as set out in the 
table below:
 % of shares subject to 
Total shareholder return
1
 target  award that vest
Less than or equal to 90p   Zero
Greater than or equal to 170p   100%
1. Total shareholder return is defined as the aggregate of share price (average 
mid-market quotations for a Company share over the five dealing days prior to the 
maturity date), dividends declared but not paid during the Performance Period, 
dividends paid during the Performance Period and cumulative interest on any 
dividends paid during the Performance Period accruing at 3% per annum. Governance
40 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
If total shareholder in the Performance Period falls between the 
two targets set out above, then the percentage of shares that 
may be vested will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
The Committee believes that total shareholder return is the best 
measure of long-term performance for the Company, and 
provides strong alignment with shareholder interests.
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award •	
being met, an award may be exercised at any time during  
the six months that follow the third anniversary of the date 
of grant.
Between September 2009 and January 2010, 1,672,945 of 
share option awards were granted, pursuant to the PSP plan. 
The exercise price attached to the options was 25p, the nominal 
value of the Company’s shares.
The Committee is also considering the possibility of structuring 
future awards under the PSP in a potentially more tax efficient 
manner for participants.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Prior to the adoption of the PSP Plan, the Volex Group plc Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was the Company’s principal 
long-term incentive scheme. The scheme was specifically 
designed to provide high rewards to executives for high 
performance by linking a substantial part of the long-term 
reward of executives to the investment of their own funds in the 
Company’s shares. Under the LTIP two types of awards were 
made: Share Matching Awards and Performance Share 
Awards. At 4 April 2010, all Share Matching Awards had lapsed.
A Performance Share Award is structured as an option to 
acquire shares in the Company for their nominal value. The 
option is normally capable of exercise if the participant is an 
employee at the point of exercise and demanding performance 
conditions set at the date of grant of the Performance Share 
Award are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance 
period. Performance Share Awards to any individual in any one 
financial year are limited to 100% of basic salary.
FY2009 LTIP awards
No Share Matching Awards were granted under the LTIP during 
the financial year ended 5 April 2009.
In relation to the Performance Share Awards made during the  
financial year ended 5 April 2009 all of the shares subject to 
each award were subject to the ‘share price target’ set out in 
the table below:
 % of shares subject to 
Share price target  award that vest
Less than 115p Zero
Equal to 115p 25%
Equal to 155p 50%
Equal to 200p 100%
In determining the percentage of shares subject to an award 
that will vest, the share price target is compared with the 
average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the 
five dealing days prior to the maturity date (i.e. three years from 
the grant of the award). 
If the average falls between any two of the share price targets 
set out above, then the percentage of shares that may be 
vested will be calculated on a straight-line basis between the 
vesting thresholds. 
In addition to the share price targets, all the LTIP awards are 
subject to an EPS underpin. Accordingly, for the LTIP awards 
granted in July 2008, should the EPS of the Company in 
respect of the financial year ending 3 April 2011 (‘Actual EPS’) 
equal 18p per share or more, then the EPS underpin for awards 
made during the financial year ended 5 April 2009 will have 
been satisfied. The number of shares over which an  
award may be exercised shall be determined by applying the 
share price target to the relevant number of shares subject to 
the award.
If however the Actual LTIP is less than 18p per share, then the 
total number of shares subject to the award will be reduced 
downwards before the share price target is applied. The 
reduced number of shares over which the award may be 
exercised (prior to the application of the share price target) shall 
be determined by multiplying the number of shares subject to 
such award by the fraction determined by dividing the Actual 
EPS by 18.
FY2008 LTIP awards
No Share Matching Awards were granted under the LTIP during 
the financial year ended 30 March 2008.
In relation to the Performance Share Awards made during the 
financial year ended 30 March 2008 all of the shares subject to 
each award were subject to the ‘share price target’ set out in 
the table below.
 % of shares subject to 
Share price target  award that vest
Less than 225p Zero
Equal to 225p 25%
Equal to 275p 50%
Equal to 325p 100%
In determining the percentage of shares subject to an award 
that will vest, the share price target is compared with the 
average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the 
five dealing days prior to the maturity date (i.e. three years from 
the grant of the award).
If the average falls between any two of the share price targets 
set out above, then the percentage of shares that may be 
vested will be calculated on a straight-line basis between the 
vesting thresholds. 
In addition to the share price targets, all the LTIP awards are 
subject to an EPS underpin. Accordingly, for the LTIP awards 
granted in June 2007 to become capable of exercise, the EPS 
for the financial year ended 4 April 2010 must equal 22.5p per 
share. If the Actual EPS is less than 22.5p per share, then the 
total number of shares subject to an award will be reduced 
downwards before the share price targets are applied. As 
reported on page 70 the EPS for the financial year ending  
4 April 2010 is 14.8p (‘Actual EPS’). Therefore the total number 
of shares subject to an award granted in FY2008 will be 
reduced downwards before the share price target is applied. 
The reduced number of shares over which an award may be 
exercised (prior to the application of the share price target) shall 
be determined by multiplying the number of shares subject to 
such an award by 14.8/22.5.
Directors’ remuneration report continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41  
FY2007 LTIP awards
All of the awards granted under the LTIP during the financial 
year ended 1 April 2007 lapsed during the year, as a result of 
the performance conditions not being met.
In respect of all LTIP awards, the share price target and the 
percentage of shares over which an LTIP award is capable of 
exercise in accordance with such target shall in each case take 
effect over such reduced number of shares as is determined by 
the prior application of the EPS underpin.
The Actual EPS will be as disclosed in the Group’s consolidated 
audited accounts for the accounting period in question (subject 
to adjustments the Committee, in its absolute discretion, 
considers to be reasonable including but not limited to any 
adjustments for exceptional items).
Subject to the performance condition attaching to an award 
being satisfied, an LTIP award may be exercised at any time 
during the six months that follow the third anniversary of the 
date of grant. 
Restricted Scheme
No awards were made under the Restricted Scheme during  
the Year.
Discretionary share option schemes 
Historically, and prior to the adoption of the PSP and LTIP 
schemes, the Company’s standard long term incentives for 
Executive Directors and senior executives were in the form of 
share option schemes, which included the 1994 Share Option 
Scheme (‘1994 Scheme’) and the Volex 2001 Option Plan (the 
‘Option Plan’). Following the adoption of the PSP, the Company 
has not issued any further options under the discretionary share 
option schemes and does not propose to issue any further 
options under such schemes in the forthcoming financial year. 
No Executive Director currently holds any options granted 
pursuant to the 1994 Scheme. 
Share Appreciation Rights
Richard Arkle’s Share Appreciation Right Scheme
Richard Arkle was Chairman of the Company from 6 May 2006 
until 1 March 2008. As part of the terms of his recruitment and 
retention, the Company agreed, following consultation with its 
major shareholders, to establish a long-term incentive scheme 
for Richard Arkle under which he was the sole participant. This 
has now lapsed and no payment has been made as the 
performance conditions were not met.
Share Appreciation Right (SAR) Scheme for  
Non-Executive Directors
No awards have been granted pursuant to the SAR Scheme 
during the year and the Company does not intend to grant any 
awards pursuant to the SAR Scheme during the next financial 
year. Instead the Non-Executive Director LTIS is expected to be 
the principal scheme for any provision of long-term incentive 
arrangements for Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director LTIS
The current principal terms of the LTIS are as follows:
Awards under the Non-Executive Director LTIS shall only be •	
made to the Chairman and other Non-Executives, selected 
by the Chairman, who take ownership of duties for the 
benefit of the Company over and above those reasonably 
expected to be undertaken by a Non-Executive Director.
Awards will take the form of an option over a number of •	
units, which upon exercise will give rise to the award holder 
receiving a cash payment.
The maximum number of units subject to all outstanding •	
awards shall be 1,000 and the maximum aggregate cash 
payment that can be made pursuant to all awards will be 
limited to £2,013,227.
Only one award may be granted to a participant. •	
The ability to exercise an award will only be triggered by the •	
first to occur of:
 –  the third anniversary of the adoption by the Company of 
the scheme, (‘Third Anniversary’);
 – a change of control of the Company (‘Take-over’); or
 –  a restriction for the voluntary winding-up of the Company 
being passed (‘Liquidation’).
However, the exercise of an award in any of these 
circumstances will only give rise to an obligation on the 
Company to make a payment to the award holder concerned if 
the aggregate of all of the returns made to shareholders 
(‘Cumulative Share Return’) during the period commencing on 
the date of adoption of the Non-Executive Director LTIS by the 
Company and ending with the event that triggers the ability to 
exercise the award, (whether this is the Third Anniversary, the 
Take-over or the Liquidation) exceeds £1.14 per Ordinary share 
of the Company.
For the purpose of calculating the Cumulative Share Return  
over the relevant period, any return of cash (‘Return of Capital’) 
paid to shareholders (by any means whatsoever including, but 
not limited to, a buy back of its own Ordinary shares by the 
Company, the payment of a special dividend on Ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company or a reduction of its share 
capital approved by the court) during that period, shall be taken 
into account. All such Returns of Capital shall be aggregated 
with any return delivered to shareholders by virtue of a Take-
over or a Liquidation where such Take-over or Liquidation is the 
event that triggers the ability to exercise the awards. 
(Accordingly, any return delivered to shareholders by virtue of a 
Take-over or Liquidation that occurs after the Third Anniversary 
shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the 
Cumulative Share Return.)
In the case of a Take-over, the return delivered to shareholders 
shall be measured as the aggregate of the cash consideration 
and the value of non-cash consideration (if any) payable per 
Ordinary share of the Company under the terms of the Take-
over. In the case of a Liquidation, the return delivered to 
shareholders shall be measured as the amount of cash per 
Ordinary share available for distribution to shareholders of the 
Company as fairly and reasonably determined by the 
Committee at the time of the Liquidation (for these purposes 
taking into account payments to be made under the scheme).  
In each case the amount of the return shall be measured  
in Sterling.
The amount of cash available for distribution between all award 
holders under the Non-Executive Director LTIS (‘Bonus Pool’) 
will be determined by reference to the Cumulative Share Return 
delivered to shareholders. Where the Cumulative Share Return 
per Ordinary share in the capital of the Company:
is less than £1.14, the Bonus Pool will be zero; •	
is equal to or greater than £1.14 but less than £1.31, the •	
Bonus Pool will be £800,000;
is equal to or greater than £1.31 but less than £1.49, the •	
Bonus Pool will be £1m;
is exactly equal to £1.49, the Bonus Pool will be £1.2m; and •	
is exactly equal to £2.50, the Bonus Pool will be £2,013,227. •	 Governance
42 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Where the Cumulative Share Return deliverable to shareholders 
per Ordinary share in the capital of the Company is greater than 
£1.49 but less than £2.50, then the amount of the Bonus Pool 
will be calculated on a straight-line basis between £1.2m and 
£2,013,227. 
If an award holder ceases to be a Director of the Company by •	
reason of ill health, injury, disability, death or retirement an 
award holder will be entitled to retain his award for a short 
period following such cessation. Should the Third Anniversary, 
a Take-over or a Liquidation occur prior to the expiry of such 
relevant period then the award holder will be entitled to 
exercise his award. If an award holder ceases to be a Director 
for any other reason then their award shall lapse on cessation 
except within three months of cessation the Company may 
exercise its discretion to allow an award holder to retain the 
award for a short period.
Should an award holder cease to be a Director prior to •	
receiving notification from the Company that the Third 
Anniversary, a Take-over or a Liquidation has occurred  
the number of units in respect of which the award may  
be exercised shall be pro rated down on a time  
apportioned basis.
Grants made to Non-Executive Directors during the year under 
the LTIS are shown on page 44 of this report.
Pension arrangements 
The provision of pension benefits for Executive Directors is 
considered in the context of the overall remuneration package 
and in the light of each executive’s particular circumstances. 
Andrew Cherry is a member of the Volex Group Personal Pension 
Plan, with a Company contribution of 20% of basic salary.
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, 
measured by total shareholder return, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE All Share Index and the FTSE 
Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector, both also measured 
by total shareholder return. These indices have been selected 
for this comparison because they represent the general and 
specific markets/sectors in which the Company is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange.
Five year total shareholder return
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for each 
Executive Director continue until the Director’s contractual 
retirement date (or such date as agreed between the Director 
and the Company) unless terminated earlier by either party, 
subject to the contractual notice period of not more than 
one year. 
The Company’s policy for Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman, is to have contracts for services, documented in 
a Letter of Appointment, with an initial period of appointment of 
three years, renewable by agreement for successive periods. 
Under the Articles of Association of the Company at each AGM 
any Director then in office who has been appointed by the 
Board since the previous AGM, and any Director then in office 
who at the date of the notice convening the AGM had held 
office for more than 30 months since he was elected or last 
re-elected by the Company in General Meeting is required to 
retire from office but is eligible for re-election. Details of those 
Directors seeking election can be found on page 48 of the 
Directors’ Report. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
Apr 2005 Apr 2006 Apr 2007 Apr 2008 Apr 2009 Apr 2010 
Volex (rebased) FTSE All Share (rebased) FTSE All Share Electronic and Electrical Equipment (rebased)   Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43  
Details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
    Effective date of service contract  
Name of Director    or letter of appointment Notice period
Executive Directors
Andrew Cherry     19.02.2009 6 months
Ray Walsh     06.04.2009 12 months
Non-Executive Directors
Richard Arkle
1
     21.04.2008 3 months
Chris Geoghegan     01.03.2008 3 months
Mike McTighe     01.03.2008 3 months
Karen Slatford     27.05.2008 3 months
1. Richard Arkle joined the Company on 20 April 2005 and his terms of appointment were renewed in 2008.
The Directors’ contracts do not include any specific provisions relating to compensation in the event of early termination. In the 
event of early termination of an Executive Director’s service agreement, the Company would give notice to the Executive Director 
and/or make payment in lieu of notice, with due allowance in appropriate circumstances for the Director’s duty to mitigate his loss. 
Details of payments with regard to compensation of loss of office are included in the table below. 
Executive Directors’ Service Contracts, which include details of remuneration together with copies of the Non-Executive Directors’ 
Letters of Appointment, will be available for inspection prior to the 2010 AGM.
Outside appointments
None of the Executive Directors hold outside Director appointments.
Non-Executive Directors
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement. Their fees are determined by the Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association and taking into account market data provided by Kepler Associates. The fee paid to each Non-Executive 
Director in the year is set out in the table below. Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in the LTIP, the PSP Plan nor the 
Restricted Scheme and are not eligible to join the Company’s pension scheme; however, in exceptional circumstances Non-
Executive Directors may be awarded options over a number of units pursuant to the Non-Executive Directors LTIS, details of which 
can be found on pages 41 to 42 of this Remuneration Report.
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ emoluments
Details of the emoluments of those Directors who were in office during the financial period ended 4 April 2010 are set out below:
      Compensation 
   Fees/basic Benefits Annual for loss 2010 2009 
   salary in kind bonuses of office
3
 Total Total 
   £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
Andrew Cherry
1
   250,000 12,256 277,449 – 539,705 31,058
Ray Walsh
2
   370,000 144,988 273,060 – 788,048 –
Heejae Chae
3
   – – – – – 311,621
Ian Degnan
4
   – – – – – 210,254
Non-Executive Directors
Richard Arkle
5
   35,000 – – – 35,000 35,000
David Beever
6
   – – – – – 22,500
Chris Geoghegan
7
   35,000 – – – 35,000 30,833
Mike McTighe   125,000 – – – 125,000 125,000
Craig Mullett
8
   – – – – – 10,500
Karen Slatford
9
   30,000 – – – 30,000 28,733
   845,000 157,244 550,509 – 1,552,753 805,499
1. Andrew Cherry was appointed Group Finance Director on 19 February 2009, 
having served as Interim Group Finance Director during the period 5 January 
2009 to 19 February 2009. Included in Mr Cherry’s annual bonus is the first 
tranche of a contractual retention bonus amounting to £92,949.
2. Ray Walsh was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 6 April 2009. Benefits-in-
kind received by Mr Walsh included £74,000 in respect of a cash payment in lieu 
of pension contribution and £48,313 relating to relocation costs.
3. Heejae Chae ceased to be a Director on 9 March 2009. £241,000 was paid to him 
in the year in respect of compensation for loss of office. This matter is scheduled 
to be concluded at an Employment Tribunal in July 2010 (see note 24 to the 
Financial Statements).
4. Ian Degnan resigned as a Director on 5 January 2009.
5. For his services as a Non-Executive Director Richard Arkle receives an annual fee 
of £35,000, comprising a Non-Executive Director fee of £26,000 and an additional 
£9,000 for chairing the Audit Committee.
6. David Beever resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2008.
7. As the Board’s Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chris Geoghegan 
receives an annual fee of £35,000, which includes a fee of £4,000 for chairing the 
Remuneration Committee.
8. Craig Mullett resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2008.
9. Karen Slatford receives an annual Non-Executive Director fee of £30,000. 
Pursuant to her service contract Karen is required to devote a minimum of 25 days 
to the Company each year to perform her duties as a Non-Executive Director. 
Karen’s service contract provides that in the event that she is required to devote 
time to the Company outside of those 25 days, then she will be paid a daily rate of 
£1,500. Fees received by Karen during the year included an additional payment 
amounting to £nil for additional days worked. Governance
44 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
The Directors do not receive general expense allowances but are reimbursed specific reasonable expenses incurred in connection 
with the Company’s business.
Directors’ interest in long-term incentive schemes
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire Ordinary shares in the 
Company or rights to cash-settled share-based payments granted to or held by the Directors. Details of the Directors’ interest in 
long-term incentive schemes are set out below:
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP)
 Number   Number  Exercise price   
 of shares Number Number of shares of shares Market price
1
  
 subject to of shares of shares subject to subject to PSP of shares Date of grant  
 PSP options subject to PSP subject to PSP PSP options options granted subject to of shares  
 held at options granted options lapsed held at during FY2010 PSP options at subject to  
 5 April 2009 during FY2010 during FY2010 4 April 2010 (£) date of grant PSP options 
Andrew Cherry – 305,623 – 305,623 0.25 0.795 07.09.2009
Ray Walsh – 452,322 – 452,322 0.25 0.795 07.09.2009
1. The market price of a share at the date of grant is taken to be the average of the mid-market quotation for a Company’s share over the period of five dealing days preceding 
the date of grant.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions of the awards granted pursuant to the PSP during the financial year.
No PSP awards vested during the year ended 4 April 2010. Details of the performance targets applying to the awards made under 
the PSP during the year ended 4 April 2010 are set out in full on pages 39 to 40. 
No PSP options were held during the year by Mike McTighe, Chris Geoghegan, Richard Arkle or Karen Slatford. 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
No LTIP options or awards were held during the year by any of the Directors.
Share Appreciation Rights (SAR)
Details relating to Richard Arkle’s share appreciation right (SAR) are shown in the table below:
     Number Number of Number of Number of  
    of notional notional shares notional shares notional  
    shares subject subject to SAR subject to SAR shares subject  
    to SAR at granted during lapsed during to SAR at  
    5 April 2009 FY2010 FY2010 4 April 2010
Richard Arkle    140,562 – 140,562 –
Performance targets associated with Richard Arkle’s SAR were not met during the vesting period (the six month period 
following the third anniversary of date of grant, 29 September 2006) and consequently the SAR has lapsed and no payment has 
been made. 
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS)
Non-Executive Directors interest in the LTIS are as follows: 
    Number Number 
   Number of of options of options Number of 
   options over over Bonus over Bonus options over % interest  
   Bonus Pool Pool units Pool units Bonus Pool in Bonus  
   units at granted during lapsed during units at Pool at  
   5 April 2009 FY2010 FY2010 4 April 2010 4 April 2010
Chris Geoghegan   – 100 – 100 10%
Mike McTighe   – 800 – 800 80%
Karen Slatford   – 100 – 100 10%
Total units in Bonus Pool      1,000
Total maximum Bonus Pool payable (£)      £2,013,227
     
Directors’ remuneration report continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 45  
In the event that the performance condition, details of which can be found on pages 41 to 42 of this Remuneration Report, has 
been achieved Chris Geoghegan, Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford may exercise their options over Bonus Pool units which will 
give rise to a cash payment. These awards over Bonus Pool units do not entitle the award holder to receive shares in the 
Company.
Full details of the LTIS are set out on pages 41 to 42 of this Remuneration Report.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Pension contributions in respect of Directors payable by the Group during the year were as follows:
       2010 2009 
       £ £
Heejae Chae
1
       – 55,975
Andrew Cherry
2
       50,000 5,513
Ian Degnan
3
       – 26,750
       50,000 88,238
1. Heejae Chae ceased to be a Director of the Company on 9 March 2009.
2. Andrew Cherry joined the Company on 19 February 2009. He is a member of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, a money purchase scheme, to which the Company 
makes a contribution of 20%.
3. Ian Degnan ceased to be a Director of the Company on 31 January 2009.
Directors’ interest in shares of the Company
As at the date of this report the interests in the share capital of the Company of those Directors who were in office at 4 April 2010, 
together with their shareholding at 5 April 2009, or date of appointment if later, are detailed below. The table details separately 
beneficial interests in shares held through share options issued to the Directors, under the PSP. All interests relate solely to 25p 
Ordinary shares.
    Shares held Shares held PSP options PSP options 
    at 4 April 2010 at 5 April 2009 at 4 April 2010 at 5 April 2009
Richard Arkle    184,000 184,000 – –
Andrew Cherry    41,765 41,765 305,623 –
Chris Geoghegan    – – – –
Mike McTighe    100,000 100,000 – –
Karen Slatford    – – – –
Ray Walsh    40,000 – 452,322 –
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or with any other related party.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 June 2010. 
Chris Geoghegan
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1 June 2010 Governance
46 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
elected to prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; •	
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; •	
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures •	
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will •	
continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the section, Board of Directors, annual report confirm that, to the 
best of their knowledge:
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair •	
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
the management report contained within the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of •	
the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Ray Walsh   Andrew Cherry
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director
1 June 2010   1 June 2010  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 47  
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the 
Group together with the audited financial statements and 
independent auditors’ report for the financial year ended  
4 April 2010.
Principal activities and business review
Volex Group plc is a leading global provider of power products 
and interconnect cable assemblies and provides global support 
to leading producers of computers, telecommunication systems 
and networking devices. The Group produces cable assemblies 
for consumer products and data & telecommunications, 
healthcare and industrial applications.
The Group operates through overseas subsidiary companies in 
Asia, Europe, North and South America. The subsidiary 
undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the 
Group in the year are listed on page 90.
A review of the development and performance of the business 
of the Group, including the financial performance during the 
year, the key performance indicators focused on and a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group, are set out in the Business review which can be found 
on pages 12 to 29 and also the Corporate Responsibility 
Statement which can be found on pages 30 to 31.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Included in the business review on pages 28 to 29 is an outline 
of the principal risks facing the Group. Given the current 
economic circumstances and the guidance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council, additional disclosures are included 
in note 2 to the Financial Statements regarding the basis on 
which the Directors have continued to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing these financial statements.
Financial instruments 
An indication of the Company’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies and the exposure of the Company to 
new business development, customer concentration, 
commodity price fluctuations, foreign exchange rates, pricing, 
credit, liquidity and cash flow risks is set out in note 34 to the 
accounts and in the Business Review on pages 28 to 29.
Research and development 
The Group continues to place great emphasis on product and 
process research and development to satisfy customer demand 
and to ensure world class manufacturing standards are 
achieved. Tom Aubin, Director of Global Technology, is 
responsible for leading the implementation of and developing 
the technology strategy, which has resulted in enhanced 
engineering competencies in North America and China. Each 
operating unit allocates considerable time and financial 
resources for these purposes. 
Continuous improvement 
The Group continues to use a range of management tools to 
achieve a culture of continuous improvement throughout its 
operations. Continuous improvement processes are in place 
throughout the Group.
Share capital
As at 4 April 2010, the Company’s total issued share capital 
comprised 56,821,563 Ordinary shares of 25p each, which 
represents 99.9% of the issued share capital together with 
80,000, 7% cumulative preference shares of £1.00 each, which 
represents 0.1% of the issued share capital. The Ordinary 
shares carry no right to a fixed income and each Ordinary share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. In accordance with the Articles of Association of the 
Company, in view of the deferment of the payment of dividends 
in respect of the cumulative preference shares, holders of the 
cumulative preference shares are entitled to attend and vote, 
whether in person or by proxy, at the 2010 AGM, each share 
carrying the right to one vote. Details of the Company’s share 
capital can be found in note 25 to the accounts. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. No 
person has any special rights or control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of the Annual Report is for the Company to 
provide information to its members. The Annual Report 
contains certain forward-looking statements with respect 
to the operations, performance and financial condition of 
the Group. By their nature these statements involve 
uncertainty, since future events and circumstances can 
cause results and developments to differ from those 
anticipated. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
Summary review of operations
  2010 2009 
  £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Operating profit before non-recurring  
 items and share-based payments  13,353 11,175
Restructuring costs  (3,095) (4,740)
Facilities rationalisation  (941) –
Provision for onerous lease arising on  
 disposal of discontinued operations  – (3,000)
Aborted disposal costs  – (1,020)
Share-based payments (charge)/credit  (9) 132
Investment income  71 226
Financing costs  (3,410) (3,210)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,910 3,583
Taxation  (1,631) (1,991)
Profit for the period from continuing  
 operations  5,279 1,592
Discontinued operations
Loss for the period from discontinued  
 operations  – (20,976)
Profit/(loss) for the period, being the  
 retained profit/(loss) for the year  
 attributable to the equity holders of  
 the parent  5,279 (19,384) Governance
48 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Net assets employed by the Group were:
  2010 2009 
  £’000 £’000
Non-current assets  10,570 11,228
Other assets and liabilities  9,661 9,828
  20,231 21,056
Net debt  (7,571) (14,787)
Net assets  12,660 6,269
Gearing
1
  60% 236%
1. Net debt divided by net assets.
Directors and their interests
(a) Directors
The Directors who served during the year were as follows:
Richard Arkle 
Andrew Cherry
Chris Geoghegan
Mike McTighe
Karen Slatford 
Ray Walsh (appointed 6 April 2009)
There have been no changes to the Board since the end of the 
financial year. Biographical details of the current Directors can 
be found on pages 32 to 33.
(b) Election of Directors
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association 
of the Company, Mike McTighe and Richard Arkle will retire at 
the 2010 AGM and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election 
by the shareholders.
(c) Directors’ interests and remuneration
Details of the Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the 
share capital of the Company are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45.
(d) Third party indemnities
The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to 
the Directors, which remain in force, copies of which will be 
available for inspection at the forthcoming AGM.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company is aware of the following interests in the share 
capital of the Company.
 Number of Percentage  
 Ordinary shares held
1
NR Investments Ltd 15,090,119 26.52
GoldenPeaks Capital Partners AG 11,178,454 19.65
Gartmore Investment Management 4,457,969 7.83
Cycladic Capital LLP 2,586,564 4.55
Stanhope Capital LLC 2,557,741 4.50
1.  Percentage calculated on the total number of Ordinary and preference shares 
outstanding at the date of this report, which was 56,901,563.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year the Group made charitable donations of £nil 
(2009: £2,000). No political donations were made in the year 
(2009: £nil).
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of an employee becoming disabled, every 
effort is made to ensure that his/her employment with the Group 
continues and that, where necessary, appropriate re-training is 
arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as 
possible in the circumstances of each particular case, be the same 
as that of other employees. Both employment and policy in the 
Group are based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting 
the performance of the Group. The Group has continued its policy 
and practice of informing and consulting its employees through a 
system of regular joint meetings between members of the 
operational management teams and the employees themselves 
and, where appropriate, employee representatives. Details of the 
Group’s employees can be found in note 10 to the accounts.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to pay suppliers on settlement terms agreed 
with each supplier. The average number of days outstanding 
during the financial year ended 4 April 2010 in respect of trade 
creditors was approximately 79 days (2009: 77 days).
Audit and auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the 
Company at the date when the report was approved:
so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit •	
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware;
each of the Directors has taken all the steps he/she ought to •	
have taken individually as a Director in order to make himself/
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee as disclosed on page 36 and section 489 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution to re-appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s auditors will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company’s Articles of Association contain a qualifying third 
party indemnity provision (as per the Companies Act 2006) that 
provides that the Company may pay for Directors’ indemnities 
out of its own assets. The Company has procured Directors’ 
and officers’ insurance for this purpose.
AGM
The 2010 AGM of the Company will be held on 14 July 2010 in 
accordance with the Notice of Meeting, which is included at the 
end of this Annual Report.
The meeting will consider items of ordinary business and items 
of special business. Each resolution will be proposed as a 
separate resolution.
By order of the Board.
Nick Temple
Company Secretary
1 June 2010
Directors’ report continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 49  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Volex Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of Volex Group plc  
for the 52 week period ended 4 April 2010, which comprise 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 46, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state •	
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 4 
April 2010 and of the Group’s profit and Group’s and parent 
company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared •	
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union;
the parent company financial statements have been properly •	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance •	
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited •	
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; 
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial •	
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
the information given in the Corporate Governance •	
Statement set out on pages 34 to 37 with respect to internal 
control, risk management systems and share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the •	
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of the •	
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by •	
law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we •	
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the Directors’ statement, set out on page 56, in relation to •	
going concern; and
the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to •	
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Nigel Reynolds 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
1 June 2010 Financial statements
50 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Consolidated income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
     Group
       2010 2009 
      Notes £’000  £’000
Continuing operations 
Revenue      3 228,995 265,116
Cost of sales       (182,834) (222,963)
Gross margin       46,161 42,153
Operating expenses       (35,912) (35,586)
Operating profit        10,249 6,567
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items and share-based payments     13,353 11,175
Restructuring costs      4 (3,095) (4,740)
Share-based payments (charge)/credit       (9) 132
Operating profit        10,249 6,567
Investment income      5 71 226
Finance costs      6 (3,410) (3,210)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation       6,910 3,583
Taxation      11 (1,631) (1,991)
Profit for the period from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent  7 5,279 1,592
Discontinued operations 
Loss for the period from discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent   8 – (20,976)
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to the owners of the parent     5,279 (19,384)
Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
1
From continuing operations
Basic       13 9.3 2.8
Diluted      13 9.1 2.8
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic      13 9.3 (34.1)
Diluted      13 9.1 (34.1)
1. Earnings per share before non-recurring items, loss on disposal and share-based payments is shown in note 13.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the parent 
company income statement. The profit for the parent company for the year was £533,000 (2009: loss of £14,427,000).  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51  
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
     Group
       2010 2009 
      Notes £’000  £’000
Profit/(loss) for the year       5,279 (19,384)
Other comprehensive income:
Gain/(loss) on hedge of net investment taken to equity      532 (5,554)
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations      1,073 8,948
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes      33 (516) (285)
Other comprehensive income for the year       1,089 3,109
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to the owners of the parent   6,368 (16,275) Financial statements
52 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
   Group 
||||||||||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
    Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    14 1,930 1,930 – –
Other intangible assets    15 658 566 357 177
Property, plant and equipment    16 7,501 8,040 192 15
Investments    17 –  – 90,668 92,373
Trade and other receivables    19 213 – 200 –
Deferred tax asset    23 268 692 – –
     10,570 11,228 91,417 92,565
Current assets
Inventories    18 27,502 24,135 3,847 3,464
Trade and other receivables    19 60,146 59,751 54,376 46,730
Current tax assets     385 56 – –
Cash and cash equivalents    19 18,220 16,877 3,049 1,458
     106,253 100,819 61,272 51,652
Total assets     116,823 112,047 152,689 144,217
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts and loans    19 282 – – –
Obligations under finance leases    21 64 2 64 –
Trade and other payables    22 61,949 56,332 69,313 53,297
Current tax liabilities     5,402 5,842 – 63
Retirement benefit obligation    33 155 153 155 153
Provisions    24 4,055 3,735 1,882 1,853
Liability for share-based payments    32 – 14 – 14
Derivative financial instruments    34 371 248 199 215
     72,278 66,326 71,613 55,595
Net current assets/(liabilities)     33,975 34,493 (10,341) (3,943)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans    20 25,356 31,662 13,314 19,379
Obligations under finance leases    21 89 – 89 –
Trade and other payables    22 – 631 47,618 48,982
Deferred tax liabilities    23 65 – – –
Retirement benefit obligation    33 2,231 1,683 2,231 1,683
Provisions    24 4,064 5,396 3,168 3,732
Non-equity preference shares    26 80 80 80 80
     31,885 39,452 66,500 73,856
Total liabilities     104,163 105,778 138,113 129,451
Net assets     12,660 6,269 14,576 14,766
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital    25 14,205 14,205 14,205 14,205
Share premium account     1,357 1,357 1,357 1,357
Hedging and translation reserve     3,138 1,533 (1,569) (1,339)
Merger reserve     – – 8,224 8,224
Non-distributable special reserve    27 – – 18,125 18,125
Accumulated losses     (6,040) (10,826) (25,766) (25,806)
Total equity     12,660 6,269 14,576 14,766
The financial statements on pages 50 to 89 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 1 June 2010. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Ray Walsh Andrew Cherry
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Consolidated and company statement of  
financial position
As at 4 April 2010 (5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53  
     Share Hedging and   
     premium translation Accumulated  
    Share capital account reserve losses Total equity 
Group    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 March 2008    14,205 1,357 (1,861) 8,935 22,636
Loss for the period attributable to the owners of the parent   – – – (19,384) (19,384)
Reserve entry for share option credit    – – – (92) (92)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes    – – – (285) (285)
Exchange difference on translation of overseas operations   – – 8,948 – 8,948
Loss recognised on net investment hedge    – – (5,554) – (5,554)
Balance at 5 April 2009    14,205 1,357 1,533 (10,826) 6,269
Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the parent   – – – 5,279 5,279
Reserve entry for share option charge    – – – 23 23
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes    – – – (516) (516)
Exchange difference on translation of overseas operations   – – 1,073 – 1,073
Profit recognised on net investment hedge    – – 532 – 532
Balance at 4 April 2010    14,205 1,357 3,138 (6,040) 12,660
    Hedging  Non 
   Share and  distributable   
  Share premium translation Merger special Accumulated  
  capital account reserve reserve reserve losses Total equity 
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 30 March 2008  14,205 1,357 (2) 8,224 18,125 (11,002) 30,907
Loss for the period attributable to owners  
 of the parent  – – – – – (14,427) (14,427)
Exchange differences on translation of  
 overseas operations  – – (1,337) – – – (1,337)
Reserve entry for share option credit  – – – – – (92) (92)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit  
 pension schemes  – – – – – (285) (285)
Balance at 5 April 2009   14,205 1,357 (1,339) 8,224 18,125 (25,806) 14,766
Profit for the year attributable to the  
 owners of the parent  – – – – – 533 533
Exchange differences on translation of  
 overseas operations  – – (230) – – – (230)
Reserve entry for share option charge  – – – – – 23 23
Actuarial gains on defined benefit 
 pension schemes  – – – – – (516) (516)
Balance at 4 April 2010  14,205 1,357 (1,569) 8,224 18,125 (25,766) 14,576
Consolidated and company statement of  
changes in equity
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009) Financial statements
54 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
   Group 
||||||||||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
    Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities    29 11,868 13,359  10,590 (483)
Cash flows from investing activities 
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings     – – – 5,092
Interest received     71 226 53 972
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment    73 283  – –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment      (1,619) (2,016) (42) (11)
Purchases of intangible assets      (237) (418) (237) (181)
Net cash outflow arising on disposal of operations     (1,979) (762) (1,979) (762)
Loans to subsidiary undertakings     – – 406 (1,276)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities      (3,691) (2,687) (1,799) 3,834
Cash flows before financing activities      8,177 10,672 8,791 3,351
Cash generated before non-recurring items     12,811 15,966  12,339 6,524
Net cash outflow arising on disposal of operations     30 (1,979) (762) (1,979) (762)
Cash utilised in respect of non-recurring items     (2,655) (4,532) (1,569) (2,411)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Repayments of borrowings     28 (5,994) (49,038) (5,994) –
Advances of borrowings     – 49,038  – –
Refinancing costs paid     (1,512) – (1,512) –
Decrease in bank overdrafts      – – – (2,406)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases     28 (2) (42) – –
Net cash used in financing activities      (7,508) (42) (7,506) (2,406)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      669 10,630  1,285 945
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period    28 16,877 4,317  1,458 –
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes     28 392 1,930  306 513
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period     28 17,938 16,877  3,049 1,458
Consolidated and company statement of cash flows
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55  
Notes to the financial statements
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
1. Presentation of financial statements
Volex Group plc (‘the Company’) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the 
Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is given on page 92. The 
nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chairman’s Statement and Business and Financial 
Reviews on pages 12 to 27.
Financial statements are prepared for the period ending on the Sunday following the Friday that falls closest to the accounting 
reference date of 31 March each year.
2. Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of the financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumption and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements are disclosed on page 62.
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period and have affected the 
amounts reported in these financial statements.
(i) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
IAS 1 (revised) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – effective 1 January 2009. IFRS 1 (revised) has introduced terminology •	
changes (including revised titles for the financial statements) and changes in the format and content of the financial statements. 
A new primary statement ‘Statement of changes in equity’ has been introduced, which was previously a note in the financial 
statements. The revised standard has had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group, and 
consequently no impact on earnings per share.
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ – effective 1 January 2009. This standard replaced IAS 14 ‘Segment reporting’. IFRS 8 requires •	
operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed 
by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to segments and to assess their performance.
IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments – disclosures’ (amendment) – effective 1 January 2009. The amendment requires enhanced •	
disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk. In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value 
measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy. As the change in accounting policy only results in additional 
disclosures, there is no impact on earnings per share.
(ii) Standards and Interpretations adopted with no effect on the financial statements
IAS 23 (revised) ‘Borrowing costs’ – the principal change to the standard was to eliminate the option to expense all borrowing •	
costs incurred. This change has had no impact on these financial statements because it has always been the Group’s 
accounting policy to capitalise borrowing costs as incurred on qualifying assets.
IFRS 2 (amendments) Share-based payment – vesting conditions and cancellations. The amendments clarify the definition of •	
vesting conditions for the purposes of IFRS2, introduce the concept of ‘non-vesting’ conditions, and clarify the accounting 
treatment for cancellations. 
IAS 32 (amendments) ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 (amendments) ‘Presentation on financial statements – •	
puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation’ – the revisions amend the criteria for debt/equity 
classifications by permitting certain puttable instruments and instruments (or components of instruments) that impose on an 
entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation, to be classified 
as equity, subject to specified criteria being met. 
IAS 39 (amendments) ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement – eligible hedged items’ – the amendments clarify •	
two aspects of hedge accounting: identifying inflation as a hedged risk or portion, and hedging with options.
IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the construction of real estate’ – the interpretation helps determine if construction of real estate is •	
within the scope of IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue.
IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation’ – the interpretation provides guidance on the detailed requirements •	
for net investment hedging for certain hedge accounting designations. Financial statements
56 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
(iii)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have been early 
adopted by the Group
IFRS 8 (amendment) ‘Operating segments’ – effective from reporting period 1 January 2010. •	
(iv)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early 
adopted by the Group
IFRS 2 (amendments) ‘Group cash-settled and share-based payment transactions’ – effective from reporting period  •	
1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’ – effective from reporting period 1 July 2009. •	
IFRS 5 (amendment) ‘Measurement of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held-for-sale’ – effective from •	
reporting period 1 January 2010.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments for financial assets – effective from reporting period 1 January 2011. •	
IAS 1 (amendment) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – effective from reporting period 1 January 2010. •	
IAS 7 (amendment) ‘Financial instruments’ – effective from reporting period 1 January 2010. •	
IAS 24 (amendment) ‘Related party disclosures’ – effective from reporting period 1 January 2011. •	
IAS 27, (revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’, – effective from reporting period 1 July 2009. •	
IAS 38 (amendment). ‘Intangible assets’ – effective from reporting period 1 January 2010. •	
IFRIC 17 ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’ – effective from reporting period 1 July 2009. •	
IFRIC 18 ‘Transfer of assets from customers’ – effective from reporting period 1 July 2009. •	
IFRIC 14 (amendment) ‘Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ - effective from reporting period 1 January 2011. •	
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Volex Group plc incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities which it 
controls (its subsidiaries), (the ‘Group’), and are drawn up to the relevant period end date. Control is achieved where the Company 
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to be able to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, incurred or 
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set 
out in the Business Review on pages 12 to 27. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 16 to 19. In addition note 34 to the financial statements includes the Group 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
As highlighted in note 34 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through a 
revolving credit facility which is renewable in March 2012.
The Group forecast and projections, taking reasonable account of possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group 
should be able to operate within the level of its current facility. The Group has access to additional undrawn committed facilities 
together with long established contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and 
industries. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite 
the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.  
The excess of fair value over the normal value of shares issued in consideration for investments is recorded in the Company’s  
merger reserve.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
2. Significant accounting policies continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57  
Foreign currency translation
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial 
position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the 
presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance 
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for:
Exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial •	
instruments/hedge accounting); and
Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither •	
planned nor likely to occur and which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign 
currency translation reserve and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The principal balances on which 
these exchange differences arise are treated as quasi-equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at 
the date of transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation 
is disposed of.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from third parties for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, determined with reference to the 
specific contract in place.
Interest income is accrued on a timely basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Taxation
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using 
the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable 
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in 
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in reserves. Financial statements
58 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings comprise factories, warehouses and offices. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss, where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and 
the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is provided on all property, 
plant and equipment, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset 
on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings  up to 50 years or period of lease, if shorter
Plant and machinery    up to 10 years
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the 
fixed asset might not be recoverable. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and value in use. Any impairment charge is 
recorded in the income statement.
A gain or loss on disposal is determined by comparing the proceeds with the asset’s carrying amount and is recognised in the 
income statement.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases and similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned 
assets, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their 
economic useful life. Assets are recognised at their fair value or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the 
interest elements are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the 
balance of the capital repayments outstanding.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are 
recognised as a liability and are allocated on a straight-line basis as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term.
The Group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases which have arisen from the sublet of vacant premises is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the relevant lease.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses represent an excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value 
of the net identifiable net assets acquired at the date of acquisition and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and value in use. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in profit and loss and is not subsequently reversed. The gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-
generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose identified according to operating segments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 1998 and earlier periods has been written off to reserves and has not 
been reinstated in the balance sheet and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Computer software
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and use specific software. 
These costs are included in the balance sheet within intangible assets and are amortised over their estimated useful lives, not 
exceeding five years.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
2. Significant accounting policies continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59  
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct materials, direct labour and an attributable 
proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, 
less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective 
items where appropriate.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the 
consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to 
the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised as property provisions and measured at the present value 
of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised 
as interest expense. An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs 
of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for restructuring and has raised a 
valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main 
features to those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from 
the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with ongoing 
activities of the entity.
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of 
the relevant products, at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligations.
Retirement benefits
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. 
For defined benefit schemes, the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets. The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full in the period in which they occur. As the defined benefit schemes are 
now closed, no service cost is incurred.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the income statement in the period is the amount of contributions 
payable in the period. The difference between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown either 
in accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an 
independently administered fund.
Government grants
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the 
related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the 
expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which 
the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired. Financial statements
60 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense 
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A 
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in 
which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Discontinued operations
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations, the Group has separately disclosed the 
results of the Wiring Harness Division as discontinued following the disposal of the business completed on 3 April 2009. 
Share-based payments
The requirements of IFRS 2 have been applied, in accordance with the transitional provisions, to all grants of equity instruments 
made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005. Equity-settled share-based payments are issued to certain 
employees and are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled 
share-based payments is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the 
estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at 
the balance sheet date and the movement in this liability is recorded in the income statement.
Non-recurring items
Costs that are one-off in nature and significant, such as restructuring costs, are deemed to be non-recurring by virtue of their 
nature and size. They are included under the statutory classification appropriate to their nature but are separately disclosed on the 
face of the income statement to assist in understanding the financial performance of the Group and the Company.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. Non-equity share capital, which includes preference shares, is classified 
within non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange 
risks. Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 34 to the financial statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured 
to their fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative 
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event, the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the 
nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the 
hedge relationship is more than 12 months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge 
relationship is less than 12 months. 
Derivatives not designated into an effective hedge relationship are classified as a current asset or a current liability.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency 
risk as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging 
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the foreign currency 
translation reserve; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
2. Significant accounting policies continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 61  
Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised immediately in profit or loss when the foreign 
operation is disposed of.
Financial assets
Investments are recognised and derecognised on trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are initially 
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss which 
are initially measured at fair value. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost.
Other financial assets are classified into specified categories. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial 
assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less impairment. 
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest 
would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there 
is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the 
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted. For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of 
trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
Debt and equity instruments
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ or other financial liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value and subsequently stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest 
paid on the financial liability.
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. 
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense 
recognised on an effective yield basis
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense 
over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. Financial statements
62 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
2. Significant accounting policies continued
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates. The use of financial derivatives is 
governed by a Group policy approved by the Board of Directors which provides written principles on the use of financial 
derivatives to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
Critical judgements and estimates in applying the accounting policies
In the process of applying the accounting policies described above, management has made the following judgements and 
estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Restructuring provisions
As at 4 April 2010, the Group had restructuring provisions of £7.4 million (2009: £8.7 million) relating to termination costs, 
restructuring programmes and consequential onerous lease obligations arising from vacating leased premises. The initial 
determination of the size of these provisions and the subsequent timing and amount of the expenditure in relation to these 
provisions is inherently difficult to estimate and is based on best management judgement at the time. Property provisions 
represent the anticipated net costs of onerous leases. The provisions have been recorded taking into account management’s best 
estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease taking into account the remaining lease term and 
the level of sub-lease rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants. The provisions are regularly reviewed in light of 
the most current information available.
Taxation
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures. 
Amounts provided are based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law. Tax benefits are not recognised unless 
the tax positions are capable of being sustained. In arriving at this position, management reviews each material tax benefit to 
assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit.
Pension benefits
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a 
number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in 
these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. The group determines the appropriate discount rate at 
the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows 
expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the group considers the 
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have 
terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based 
in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in note 33 to the financial statements.
Deferred tax 
The Group operates in a large number of different tax jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management 
judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to 
which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income, time 
limits on the availability of taxable losses for carry forward and any future tax planning strategies.
Inventory provisions
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realiseable value, which is calculated as the estimated sales proceeds less 
costs of sale. Factors considered in the determination of net realiseable value are the ageing, category and condition of 
inventories, recent inventory utilisation and forecasts of projected inventory utilisation. Reviews of provisions held against 
damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventory are carried out at least quarterly by management and these reviews require the 
application of judgement and estimates. Changes to these estimates could result in changes to the net valuation of inventory.  
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 63  
3. Segment Information
Operating segments
Following the disposal last year of the Wiring Harness division and the corporate restructuring initiatives implemented in the year, 
management have changed the organisation structure to a market sector focus. This change enables the Group to align itself 
more closely with its customers and markets, to better leverage our global customer relationships and to maximise opportunities 
for cross selling. These new market sectors, namely Consumer, Telecom/Datacom, Healthcare and Industrial, are based on the 
end markets that our products are supplied into.
In this, the year of transition to market sector focus, management considers it useful to present its operating segment information 
on both the outgoing divisional basis, Power Products and Interconnect, and the new market sector basis, in which future 
segmental information will be reported. The segmental information has also been amended to reflect the requirements of IFRS 8. 
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is the Board.
The Group’s revenue predominantly relates to the sale of goods.
Former operating segments
       2010 2009 
Revenue       £’000  £’000
Continuing operations
Power Products       135,373 150,680
Interconnect       93,622 114,436
       228,995 265,116
Discontinued operations
Wiring Harness       – 37,704
       228,995 302,820
       2010 2009 
Operating profit before non-recurring items and share-based payments       £’000  £’000
Continuing operations
Power Products       11,842 6,014
Interconnect       1,511 5,161
       13,353 11,175
Non-recurring items and share-based payments
Power Products       (1,884) (2,619)
Interconnect       (1,220) (1,989)
       (3,104) (4,608)
Operating profit
Power Products       9,958 3,395
Interconnect       291 3,172
       10,249 6,567
Investment income       71 226
Finance costs       (3,410) (3,210)
Profit before tax from continuing operations       6,910 3,583
Tax       (1,631) (1,991)
Profit from continuing operations       5,279 1,592
Loss from discontinued operations (see note 8)       – (20,976)
Profit/(loss) after tax and discontinued operations      5,279 (19,384) Financial statements
64 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
3. Segment Information continued
New operating segments
       2010 2009 
Revenue       £’000  £’000
Continuing operations
Consumer       139,350 152,516
Telecoms/Datacoms       59,384 81,495
Healthcare       19,281 21,093
Industrial       10,980 10,012
       228,995 265,116
Discontinued operations
Wiring Harness       – 37,704
       228,995 302,820
       2010 2009 
Gross profit        £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Consumer       30,738 23,178
Telecoms/Datacoms       8,769 14,154
Healthcare       4,166 3,412
Industrial       2,488 1,409
       46,161 42,153
Unallocated overhead costs       (32,808) (30,978)
Non-recurring items and share-based payments       (3,104) (4,608)
Operating profit       10,249 6,567
Investment income       71 226
Finance costs       (3,410) (3,210)
Profit before tax from continuing operations       6,910 3,583
Tax       (1,631) (1,991)
Profit from continuing operations       5,279 1,592
Loss from discontinued operations (see note 8)       – (20,976)
Profit/(loss) after tax and discontinued operations      5,279 (19,384)
Overhead costs and charges for non-recurring items and share-based payments have not been allocated to sectors as management 
report and analyse sector profitability at the gross profit level and there is no meaningful basis for any such allocation.
Information about major customers
Two of the Group’s customers individually account for more than 10% of total Group revenue, with the Group’s largest customer, 
operating in the wireless infrastructure sector, accounting for 11% of total Group revenue.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 65  
     Power 
     Products Interconnect Unallocated Consolidated 
     2010 2010 2010 2010 
Balance sheet      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Segment assets     57,487 40,463 – 97,950
Deferred tax asset     – – 268 268
Current tax asset     – – 385 385
Cash and cash equivalents     – – 18,220 18,220
Total assets     57,487 40,463 18,873 116,823
Liabilities
Segment liabilities     42,711 27,357 – 70,068
Bank loans and overdrafts     – – 25,638 25,638
Obligations under finance leases     – – 153 153
Current tax liabilities     – – 5,402 5,402
Deferred tax liability     – – 65 65
Retirement benefit obligations     – – 2,386 2,386
Non-equity preference shares     – – 80 80
Derivative financial instruments     – – 371 371
Total liabilities     42,711 27,357 34,095 104,163
Other information
Capital additions     1,166 412 431 2,009
Depreciation and amortisation     1,523 694 75 2,292
Segment assets consist primarily of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and trade and other receivables. 
Segment liabilities consist primarily of trade and other payables and provisions. Segment assets and liabilities are those that can 
be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Capital additions and depreciation and amortisation comprise those relating to goodwill (note 14), property, plant and equipment 
(note 16) and intangible assets (note 15).
     Power 
     Products Interconnect Unallocated Consolidated 
     2009 2009 2009 2009 
Balance sheet      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets   
Segment assets     47,847 46,575 – 94,422
Deferred tax     – – 692 692
Current tax asset     – – 56 56
Cash and cash equivalents     – – 16,877 16,877
Total assets     47,847 46,575 17,625 112,047
Liabilities   
Segment liabilities     32,669 33,439 – 66,108
Bank loans and overdrafts     – – 31,662 31,662
Obligations under finance leases     – – 2 2
Current tax liabilities     – – 5,842 5,842
Retirement benefit obligations     – – 1,836 1,836
Non-equity preference shares     – – 80 80
Derivative financial instruments     – – 248 248
Total liabilities     32,669 33,439 39,670 105,778
Other information   
Capital additions     1,457 628 348 2,433
Depreciation and amortisation     1,514 697 404 2,615
Segmental asset information is not provided by market sector as the Group is not able to analyse assets and liabilities in detail by 
market sector and this information is not provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. Financial statements
66 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
3. Segment Information continued
Geographical information
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, based both on source and destination of the 
sale. Segment assets and capital expenditure are allocated on the basis of where the assets are located.
   External revenue  External revenue  
   by source  
||
 by destination
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Asia (excluding India)     133,351 142,190 113,003 110,260
India     22,209 31,692 22,222 30,219
Americas     49,170 52,889 51,286 60,587
Europe (including UK)     24,265 38,345 42,484 64,050
     228,995 265,116 228,995 265,116
Discontinued operations
Asia (excluding India)     – 8,334 – 46
India     – – – –
Americas     – – – 7
Europe (including UK)     – 29,370 – 37,651
     – 37,704 – 37,704
     228,995 302,820 228,995 302,820
   Segment assets 
||
 Capital expenditure
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Asia (excluding India)     49,230 40,647 1,394 1,687
India     9,155 13,490 76 45
Americas     19,765 20,405 68 193
Europe (including UK)     19,800 19,880 471 508
     97,950 94,422 2,009 2,433
4. Non-recurring items
     Group
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Corporate restructuring       2,154 720
Facilities rationalisation       941 –
Provision for onerous lease arising on disposal of discontinued operations     – 3,000
Aborted disposal costs       – 1,020
Restructuring costs       3,095 4,740
Discontinued operations
Restructuring programme       – 2,628
       3,095 7,368
Continuing operations 
Corporate restructuring
As part of the corporate restructuring programme commenced last year, the Group relocated its corporate headquarters (‘HQ’) 
from Warrington to London. Costs associated with this HQ relocation include £1,233,000 of redundancy, recruitment and office 
set-up costs and £905,000 relating to an onerous lease provision established on exiting the Warrington premises. The provision 
represents management’s best estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease taking into account 
the remaining lease term and the level of sub-lease rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants.
During the year the Group successfully completed an agreement to sub-lease one of its vacant premises in the UK. Management 
have revised the required onerous lease provision accordingly, to reflect the commercial terms of the sub-lease agreement, 
resulting in a partial write-back of the provision of £439,000, which is included above. 
Also included in corporate restructuring costs above are additional disposal costs of £455,000 in respect of the conclusion of all 
outstanding issues arising from the disposal of the Wiring Harness business in the prior year.
Costs of £720,000 in the prior period include an estimate of the compensation for loss of office payable to the former CEO of the 
Group, who left the Group on 9 March 2009.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 67  
Facilities rationalisation
In response to a strategic review of business operations the Board initiated a rationalisation programme to align the Group’s 
manufacturing capacity and support facilities more closely with its customer base and market environment. Costs associated with 
this rationalisation programme relate primarily to redundancy and severance costs.
Provision for onerous lease arising on disposal of discontinued operations
In the prior year the Group completed the disposal of its Wiring Harness Division. As part of the conditions pertaining to the 
disposal the Group retains the liability for the lease of the Wiring Harness premises in the UK until 2020 and as a consequence 
reflected a provision for the resulting onerous lease. The provision represents management’s best estimate, following appropriate 
advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease taking into account the remaining lease term and the level of sub-lease rental 
income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants.
Aborted disposal costs
Costs of £1,020,000 were incurred last year in relation to the Board’s investigation into the potential for realising value from a 
possible sale or flotation of its Power Products business. The Board announced on 9 February 2009 that it had terminated the 
divestment process.
The taxation effect of the above charges in the year was £nil (2009: £nil).
Discontinued operations 
Pre-disposal restructuring programme 
Prior to completing the disposal of the Wiring Harness Division the Group implemented a substantial redundancy programme to 
reduce the cost base of the division, in response to continued trading losses. Costs incurred in the year to 5 April 2009 relating to 
this programme amounted to £1,278,000. 
In addition, as part of the disposal of the Wiring Harness Division, the Group recognised a further exceptional charge of 
£1,350,000, following the acquirer’s decision to terminate a supply agreement for wiring harness products manufactured in China. 
This amount comprised redundancy costs of £350,000 and asset impairment charges of £750,000 in respect of inventory and 
£250,000 in respect of fixed assets. 
5. Investment income
     Group
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Interest on bank deposits       71 226
All investment income was derived from continuing operations.
No gains or losses have been recognised on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
6. Finance costs
     Group
       2010 2009 
      Notes £’000 £’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans      20 2,153 2,230
Interest on pension scheme liabilities      33 719 775
Return on pension assets      33 (536) (737)
Fair value loss on interest rate swap contracts      34 156 215
Unwinding of discount on long-term provisions      24 281 184
Other       15 23
Total interest costs       2,788 2,690
Amortisation of debt issue costs      28 622 520
Total finance costs       3,410 3,210
All finance costs relate to continuing operations. Financial statements
68 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
7. Profit/(loss) for the year
Profit/(loss) for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
 Continuing  Discontinued 
 operations 
||
 operations 
||
 Total
   2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Raw materials   144,484 181,123 – 26,209 144,484 207,332
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses   (170) 2,311 – 356 (170) 2,667
Research and development costs   1,658 1,656 – – 1,658 1,656
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   2,200 2,213 – 362 2,200 2,575
Impairment of property, plant and equipment   – – – 250 – 250
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets   92 27 – 15 92 42
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense   1,684 1,427 – 750 1,684 2,177
Staff costs (see note 10)   39,546 37,590 – 10,670 39,546 48,260
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables   134 267 – 98 134 365
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment   6 18 – – 6 18
Reconciliation of operating profit to EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation)*:
     Continuing Operations
       2010 2009 
Group       £’000  £’000
Operating profit       10,249 6,567
Add back:
Non-recurring items       3,095 4,740
Share-based payment charge/(credit)       9 (132)
Operating profit before non-recurring items and share-based payments    13,353 11,175
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment       2,200 2,213
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets       92 27
EBITDA*       15,645 13,415
*EBITDA defined as operating profit before non-recurring items, share-based payment charge/credit, depreciation and amortisation. 
8. Discontinued operations
In the prior year the Group disposed of the Wiring Harness Division.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows:
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue     – 37,704 – 37,204
Expenses     – (44,408) – (39,152)
Loss before tax     – (6,704) – (1,948)
Attributable tax expenses     – 101 – –
     – (6,603) – (1,948)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations     – (14,373) – (19,516)
     – (20,976) – (21,464)
Attributable tax expenses      – – –
Net loss attributable to discontinued operations     – (20,976) – (21,464)
During the prior year, the Wiring Harness Division consumed £3.2m of the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid £0.2m in 
respect of investing activities.
A loss of £14.4m arose on the disposal of the Wiring Harness Division; being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of 
the division’s net attributable assets, see note 30 on page 82. No goodwill was attributable to the disposal.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 3.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 69  
9. Auditors’ remuneration
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
       2010 2009 
       £’000  £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements  180 110
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group
 – the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     226 336
Total audit fees       406 446
Other services pursuant to legislation 
Tax services       18 313
Other services       68 –
Corporate finance services       – 115
Total non-audit fees       86 428
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates in respect of the audit of associated
 pension schemes       – 10
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when the auditors provide non-audit services.
10. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     No. No. No. No.
Production     5,307 5,768 – 128
Sales and distribution     367 253 3 19
Administration     1,120 1,617 30 91
     6,794 7,638 33 238
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries     35,106 42,821 3,490 7,625
Social security costs     2,994 3,982 375 689
Other pension costs (see note 33)     1,446 1,457 308 340
     39,546 48,260 4,173 8,654
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and 
interests for the year required by the Companies Act 2006 are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 43 to 45 and form part of the financial statements.
11. Taxation
 Continuing  Discontinued 
 operations 
||
 operations 
||
 Total
   2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax – charge for the period   2,972 2,685 – – 2,972 2,685
Current tax – adjustment in respect of previous periods  (1,801) (205) – – (1,801) (205)
Total current tax   1,171 2,480 – – 1,171 2,480
Deferred tax (note 23)   460 (489) – (101) 460 (590)
Income tax expense   1,631 1,991 – (101) 1,631 1,890
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28% (2009: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. Financial statements
70 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit/(loss) per the income statement as follows:
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
Group     £’000 % £’000 %
Profit on ordinary activities before tax:
Continuing operations     6,910  3,583 
Discontinued operations     –  (6,704) 
Loss on disposal     –  (14,373) 
Profit/(loss) before tax     6,910 100 (17,494) 100
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%)    1,935 28 (4,898) 28
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible and income that is not taxable
 in determining taxable profit     1,466 21 4,325 (25)
Tax effect of non-utilisation of tax losses     848 12 3,159 (18)
Tax effect of adjustments in respect of previous periods    (1,493) (21) (256) 1
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions   (631) (9) (649) 4
Tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax     151 2 829 (5)
Tax effect of loss utilisation     (645) (9) (620) 4
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year     1,631 24 1,890 (11)
12. Dividends
The Directors do not recommend a dividend on the Ordinary shares for the period (2009: £nil).
13. Earnings per Ordinary share
From continuing and discontinued operations
The calculations of the earnings per share are based on the following data:
       2010 2009 
Earnings      Notes £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) for the purpose of basic earnings/(loss) per share being net loss
 attributable to equity holders of the parent       5,279 (19,384)
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items      4 3,095 7,368
Share-based payments charge/(credit)      32 9 (132)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations       – 14,373
Adjusted earnings       8,383 2,225
       No. shares No. shares
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of basis earnings per share   56,821,563 56,821,563
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares – share options      958,703 45,579
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share   57,780,266 56,867,142
       2010 2009 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share       pence pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share       9.3 (34.1)
Adjustments for:
Non-recurring items       5.5 13.0
Share-based payments charge/(credit)       – (0.2)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations       – 25.2
Adjusted basic earnings per share       14.8 3.9
       2010 2009 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share       pence pence
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share       9.1 (34.1)
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items       5.4 13.0
Share-based payments charge/(credit)       – (0.2)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations       – 25.2
Adjusted diluted earnings per share       14.5 3.9
The adjusted earnings per share has been calculated on the basis of continuing activities before non-recurring items, share-based 
payments and loss on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax. The Directors consider that this earnings per share 
calculation gives a better understanding of the Group’s earnings per share in the current and prior period.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
11. Taxation continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 71  
Earnings per share from continuing operations
       2010 2009 
Earnings      Notes £’000 £’000
Earnings/(loss) for the purpose of basic earnings/(loss) per share being net loss 
 attributable to equity holders of the parent       5,279 (19,384)
Adjustments to exclude loss for the period from discontinued operations     – 20,976
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share     5,279 1,592
Adjustments for:
Non-recurring items      4 3,095 4,740
Share-based payments charge/(credit)      32 9 (132)
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of adjusted earnings per share    8,383 6,200
The denominators (numbers of shares) are the same, for both basic and diluted earnings per share, as those used in the 
calculation of EPS from continuing and discontinued operations.
       2010 2009 
Basic earnings per share       Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations       9.3 2.8
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items       5.5 8.3
Share-based payments charge/(credit)       – (0.2)
Adjusted basic earnings per share       14.8 10.9
       2010 2009 
Diluted earnings per share       pence pence
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations      9.1 2.8
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items       5.4 8.3
Share-based payments charge/(credit)       – (0.2)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share       14.5 10.9
       2010 2009 
Loss per share from discontinued operations       Pence Pence
Basic and diluted loss per share from discontinued operations      – (36.9)
14. Goodwill
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Cost   
At beginning and end of the period       3,798 3,798
Accumulated impairment losses   
At beginning and end of the period       1,868 1,868
Carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period      1,930 1,930
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the business units that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. After recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Power Products       1,495 1,495
Interconnect       435 435
       1,930 1,930
As stated in note 3, the Group has changed its organisation structure during the year to a market sector focus. Although the 
Group is not able to analyse goodwill in detail by market sector, the majority of goodwill relates to the Consumer sector, with the 
balance pertaining to other sectors being immaterial.
The Group annually tests goodwill for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions used in the value in use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, revenue and costs growth rates and the level of capital expenditure required 
during the period. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recently approved three-year forecasts of the 
relevant businesses. The cash flow forecasts reflect the risk associated with each asset. Cash flows for years beyond 2013 are 
extrapolated using a growth rate of 3%, which does not exceed the average long-term growth rates for the relevant markets,  
and a pre-tax discount rate of 10% (2009: 10%), which reflects the Group’s estimated cost of capital. Financial statements
72 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
15. Other intangible assets 
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Software and licences     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At beginning of year     995 601 219 124
Additions     237 418 238 181
Disposals     – (107) – –
Disposal arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division     – (89) – (86)
Reclassification     (204) – – –
Exchange differences     (7) 172 – –
At end of the year     1,021 995 457 219
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of year     429 340 42 50
Amortisation charge for the year     92 42 58 38
Disposals     – (30) – –
Disposal arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division     – (47) – (46)
Reclassification     (140) – – –
Exchange differences     (18) 124 – –
At end of the year     363 429 100 42
Carrying amount     658 566 357 177
Computer software is amortised over the estimated useful life, not exceeding five years.
16. Property, plant and equipment
    Land and buildings
      Long Plant and 
     Freehold leasehold machinery Total 
Group     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 March 2008     37 2,497 25,728 28,262
Additions     – 121 1,895 2,016
Reclassification     – (2) (574) (576)
Disposals     – (276) (2,438) (2,714)
Disposals arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division    – (801) (4,189) (4,990)
Exchange differences     13 1,228 5,462 6,703
At 5 April 2009     50 2,767 25,884 28,701
Additions     – – 1,772 1,772
Reclassification     – (95) (700) (795)
Disposals     (46) – (488) (534)
Exchange differences     (4) (95) (559) (658)
At 4 April 2010     – 2,577 25,909 28,486
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2008     – 1,506 18,972 20,478
Depreciation charge for the period     – 400 2,175 2,575
Impairment loss     – – 250 250
Reclassification     – – (571) (571)
Disposals     – (362) (2,128) (2,490)
Disposals arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division    – (473) (3,644) (4,117)
Exchange differences     – 707 3,829 4,536
At 5 April 2009     – 1,778 18,883 20,661
Depreciation charge for the period     – 187 2,013 2,200
Reclassification     – (61) (797) (858)
Disposals     – – (455) (455)
Exchange differences     – (52) (511) (563)
At 4 April 2010     – 1,852 19,133 20,985
Carrying amount
At 4 April 2010     – 725 6,776 7,501
At 5 April 2009     50 989 7,001 8,040
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 73  
The carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £153,000 (2009: £2,000) in respect of assets 
held under finance leases. At 4 April 2010, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment amounting to £nil (2009: £nil).
      Land and  
      buildings
      Long Plant and 
      leasehold machinery Total 
Company      £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 March 2008      798 3,990 4,788
Additions      – 11 11
Disposals arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division     (798) (3,420) (4,218)
Exchange differences      – 201 201
At 5 April 2009      – 782 782
Additions      – 196 196
Disposals      – (202) (202)
Exchange differences      – (16) (16)
At 4 April 2010      – 760 760
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2008      440 3,499 3,939
Depreciation charge for the period      – 196 196
Disposals arising from sale of Wiring Harness Division     (440) (3,120) (3,560)
Exchange differences      – 192 192
At 5 April 2009      – 767 767
Depreciation charge for the period      – 19 19
Disposals      – (202) (202)
Exchange differences      – (16) (16)
At 4 April 2010      – 568 568
Carrying amount
At 4 April 2010      – 192 192
At 5 April 2009      – 15 15
The carrying amount of the Company’s fixtures and equipment includes an amount of £153,000 (2009: £nil) in respect of assets 
held under finance leases. At 4 April 2010, the Company had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment amounting to £nil (2009: £nil). Financial statements
74 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
17. Investments
The Company’s fixed asset investments comprise investments in wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings and permanent loans 
as follows:
      Shares Loans Total 
      £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 March 2008      34,318 51,897 86,215
Additions      – 1,276 1,276
Disposals      (100) (3,154) (3,254)
Exchange differences      – 16,547 16,547
At 5 April 2009      34,218 66,566 100,784
Repaid      – (405) (405)
Exchange differences      – (1,144) (1,144)
At 4 April 2010      34,218 65,017 99,235
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 30 March 2008      (3,642) (4,462) (8,104)
Exchange differences      – (307) (307)
At 5 April 2009       (3,642) (4,769) (8,411)
Repaid      – 405 405
Exchange differences      – (561) (561)
At 4 April 2010      (3,642) (4,925) (8,567)
Carrying amount
At 4 April 2010      30,576 60,092 90,668
At 5 April 2009      30,576 61,797 92,373
In the United Kingdom, Volex Group plc includes an operational division, Volex Powercords Europe. Details of the Company’s 
principal subsidiary undertakings are set out on page 90.
18. Inventories
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Raw materials     11,701 10,729 6 16
Work-in-progress     1,099 1,489 – –
Finished goods     14,702 11,917 3,841 3,448
     27,502 24,135 3,847 3,464
19. Other financial assets
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Trade and other receivables     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Due for settlement within 12 months:
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods      51,992 52,090 3,335 4,045
Allowance for doubtful debts     (618) (575) (66) (69)
     51,374 51,515 3,269 3,976
Amounts due from Group undertakings     – – 49,894 42,672
Other debtors     6,592 7,354 1,083 54
Prepayments     2,180 882 130 28
     60,146 59,751 54,376 46,730
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Due for settlement after 12 months:
Other debtors     200 – 200 –
Prepayments     13 – – –
     213 – 200 –
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 75  
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 83 days (2009: 77 days). An allowance has been made for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.  
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
Bank and cash balances comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its 
trade receivables. Two of the Group’s customers individually account for more than 10% of total Group revenue, with the Group’s 
largest customer, operating in the wireless infrastructure sector, accounting for 11% of total Group revenue.  Other than these two 
customers the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties 
and customers. Further information can be found in the Business Review on page 28.
Included in trade receivables are receivables with a carrying value of £7,511,000 (2009: £6,951,000) and £823,000 (2009: 
£1,231,000) for the Group and Company respectively which are past due at the reporting date for which no provision has been 
made as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group and 
Company does not hold any collateral over these balances.
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
0–60 days      6,957 6,350 739 1,177
60–90 days     356 207 21 –
90–120 days     139 270 53 –
120+ days      59 124 10 54
     7,511 6,951 823 1,231
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at beginning of the year     575 326 69 121
Amounts written off during the year     (21) (206) – (188)
Amounts recovered during the year     (57) – (3) –
Increase in allowance recognised in income statement    134 365 – 136
Exchange differences     (13) 90 – –
Balance at end of the year     618 575 66 69
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivables from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the 
customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in 
excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
0–60 days     55 336 – –
60–90 days     45 5 – –
90–120 days     62 24 53 17
120+ days     456 210 13 52
     618 575 66 69 Financial statements
76 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents     17,938 16,877 3,049 1,458
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group, short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less and bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
20. Borrowings
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
Bank loans     25,356 31,662 13,314 19,379
Amount due for settlement after 12 months     25,356 31,662 13,314 19,379
Drawings under the facilities can be made in various currencies. Borrowings for the Group can be analysed by currency as follows:
       2010 2009 
       Bank loans  Bank loans 
Group       £’000 £’000
US Dollar       14,305 20,831
Euro       12,042 12,313
       26,347 33,144
Less: debt issue costs       (991) (1,482)
       25,356 31,662
Also drawn under the facilities, and not included above, are bonds, guarantees and letters of credit amounting to £3.7m  
(2009: £4.2m)
The Group’s principal funding is provided via a multi-currency combined revolving, overdraft and guarantee facility. The facility 
commenced on 8 December 2006 and was extended in March 2009 for a further three years to March 2012. The amount 
available under the facility at 4 April 2010 was US$57.7m (2009: US$62.7m). Under terms of the restated facility the amount 
available will be reduced by a minimum, depending on the level of surplus funds available, of US$2.5m for each financial quarter, 
commencing with the quarter ended 31 March 2010. The facility is secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain 
Group companies. At 4 April 2010, the facility incurred interest at a margin of 3.25% (2009: 4.00%) above LIBOR.
The weighted average interest rates paid during the period were as follows:
       2010 2009 
       % %
Bank loans and overdrafts       5.9 5.9
Undrawn borrowing facilities
At 4 April 2010, the Group had available £14,007,000 (2009: £11,424,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
21. Obligations under finance leases 
     Present value of minimum 
   Minimum lease payments 
||
 lease payments
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Group     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year     72 2 64 2
In second and third years     100 – 89 –
     172 2 153 2
Less: future finance charges     (19) –
Present value of lease obligations     153 2
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months     (64) (2) (64) (2)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months     89 – 89 –
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
19. Other financial assets continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 77  
     Present value of minimum 
   Minimum lease payments 
||
 lease payments
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Company     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year     72 – 64 –
In second and third years     100 – 89 –
     172 – 153 –
Less: future finance charges     (19) –  
Present value of lease obligations     153 –  
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months     (64) – (64) –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months     89 – 89 –
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its plant and machinery under finance leases. The average lease term is three years. For 
the current period the average effective borrowing rate was 4.1% (2009: 6.0%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All 
leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. The fair value 
of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by 
the lessors’ rights over the leased assets.
The Group’s lease obligations are denominated in the following currencies:
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Sterling       153 –
US Dollar       – 2
22. Trade and other payables
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Due for settlement within 12 months:
Trade creditors     45,173 41,957 1,098 650
Amounts owed to Group undertakings     – – 65,589 47,481
Other taxes and social security     2,492 911 317 –
Accruals and deferred income     14,284 13,464 2,309 5,166
     61,949 56,332 69,313 53,297
Due for settlement after 12 months:   
Amounts owed to Group undertakings     – – 47,618 48,351
Accruals     – 631 – 631
     – 631 47,618 48,982
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average 
credit period taken for trade purchases is 79 days (2009: 77 days). The Group has financial risk policies in place to ensure that all 
payables are paid within the credit time frame.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. Financial statements
78 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
23. Deferred tax
Group
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
and prior reporting period.
      Accelerated Other short-  
     Trading tax term timing 
     losses depreciation differences Total 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 March 2008     – (67) (127) (194)
Credit to income     – (70) (520) (590)
Disposal     – – 184 184
Exchange differences     – (41) (51) (92)
At 5 April 2009     – (178) (514) (692)
Charge/(credit) to income     (117) 126 451 460
Exchange differences     – 14 15 29
At 4 April 2010     (117) (38) (48) (203)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for financial reporting purposes:
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Deferred tax liabilities       65 –
Deferred tax assets       (268) (692)
       (203) (692)
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of £54 million (2009: £46 million) available for offset against future 
profits. The group has recognised £0.1m of deferred tax asset in respect of these unused tax losses, following the initiation, 
shortly after the year end, of a global supply chain optimisation project. The Group expects to increase the recognition of 
deferred tax assets relating to tax losses over the next few years as the benefits anticipated from the global supply chain 
project accrue with greater certainty. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of £22 million (2009: £19 million) that 
cannot be carried forward indefinitely. Of this amount, £0.5m (2009: £nil) expires during the next five accounting periods.  
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, no deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £14 million (2009:£78 million) 
relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these 
temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Temporary differences at 4 April 
2010 are significantly reduced from the previous year as a result of a change to UK tax legislation which largely exempts 
overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 from UK tax.  The temporary differences at 4 April 2010 represent only the 
unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, 
principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Company
At the balance sheet date, the Company had unused tax losses of £18 million (2009: £15 million) available for offset against 
future profits. The Company has recognised £0.1m of deferred tax asset in respect of these unused tax losses, following the 
initiation, shortly after the year end, of a global supply chain optimisation project. The Company expects to increase the 
recognition of deferred tax assets relating to tax losses over the next few years as the benefits anticipated from the global 
supply chain project accrue with greater certainty. The losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 79  
24. Provisions
 Restructuring provisions 
      Corporate   
     Property restructuring Other Total 
Group     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 5 April 2009     7,371 1,370 390 9,131
Charge in the year     560 385 322 1,267
Utilisation of provision     (1,681) (1,037) (118) (2,836)
Unwinding of discount (note 6)     281 – – 281
Transfers     403 (161) 18 260
Exchange differences     (130) 54 92 16
At 4 April 2010     6,804 611 704 8,119
Less: included in current liabilities        4,055
Non-current liabilities        4,064
  Restructuring provisions
       Corporate 
      Property restructuring Total 
Company      £’000 £’000 £’000
At 5 April 2009      4,865 720 5,585
Charge in the year      876 115 991
Utilisation of provision      (1,522) (399) (1,921)
Unwinding of discount      188 – 188
Transfers      58 149 207
At 4 April 2010      4,465 585 5,050
Less: included in current liabilities        1,882
Non-current liabilities        3,168
Property provisions
Property provisions represent the anticipated net costs of onerous leases. The provisions have been recorded taking into account 
management’s best estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease taking into account the 
remaining lease term and the level of sub-lease rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants. This provision will be 
utilised as the rental payments, net of any sub-lease income, fall due through to 2020.
As referred to in note 4, the Group relocated its corporate headquarters (HQ) from Warrington to London during the year and has 
recognised a provision for £905,000 for the resulting onerous lease. 
During the year the Group successfully completed an agreement to sub-lease one of its vacant premises in the UK. Management 
have revised the required onerous lease provision accordingly, to reflect the commercial terms of the sub-lease agreement.
Corporate restructuring
Following the disposal of the Wiring Harness Division last year, the Board initiated a review of the corporate management 
structure. This review has been completed during the year, with the establishment of a new corporate HQ and the appointment of 
a new, experienced management team. The provision remaining at 4 April 2010 of £611,000 includes an amount relating to 
compensation for loss of office payable to the former CEO of the Group, who left the Group on 9 March 2009. The Company has 
been advised that the amount provided is adequate, should it be unsuccessful in defending the claims made by the former CEO, 
which are scheduled to be heard at an Employment Tribunal in July 2010. Financial statements
80 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
25. Share capital
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Authorised:  
75,000,000 (2009: 75,000,000) Ordinary shares of 25p each      18,750 18,750
Issued and fully paid:  
56,821,563 (2009: 56,821,563) Ordinary shares of 25p each      14,205 14,205
Under the terms of the Group’s various share option schemes, the following options to subscribe for Ordinary shares 
are outstanding:
 Option price     
 Number of shares
Date of grant (p)  Exercise period   2010  2009
Discretionary Share Option Schemes  
3 July 2000 1,475.0 July 2003 – July 2010 13,500  17,500
18 June 2001 788.0 June 2004 – June 2011 13,500  18,500
20 June 2003 87.0 June 2006 – June 2013 45,000  60,000
 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
Performance Shares
29 September 2006 25.0 Sept 2009 – Mar 2010 –  482,652
13 November 2006 25.0 Nov 2009 – May 2010 –  49,788
15 June 2007 25.0 Jun 2010 – Dec 2010 140,736  171,736
9 July 2008 25.0 July 2011 – Jan 2012 591,646  651,646
Matching Shares   
9 November 2006 25.0 Nov 2009 – May 2010 –  493,726
   
Performance Share Plan
7 September 2009 25.0 Sept 2012 – Mar 2013 1,407,945  –
3 November 2009 25.0 Nov 2012 – May 2013 90,000  –
11 January 2010 25.0  Jan 2013 – July 2013   90,000  –
      2,392,327  1,945,548
For further details of the Group’s share option schemes see note 32.
26. Non-equity preference shares
The Company has authorised and issued 80,000 cumulative preference shares of £1 each with the rights to a fixed cumulative 
preference dividend payable, at the rate of 7% per annum, on the amount paid up or credited as paid up thereon on 31 March and 
30 September in each year but not to any further participation in the profits of the Company. The preference shares confer the 
right on a winding up to have the capital paid or credited as paid up, including all arrears of dividend whether declared or not up to 
the commencement of the winding up, paid in priority to any payment of capital on the Ordinary shares but without any further 
right to participate in profits or assets. There is no fixed repayment date.
Since the dividends are in arrears for more than three months, the preference shares currently confer on the holders the right to 
have notice and to attend and vote, either in person or by proxy, at any General Meeting. 
These preference shares are recorded as non-current liabilities.
27. Non-distributable reserve
On 12 October 2005, the cancellation of the Company’s share premium was approved and the balance of £32m on the share 
premium account at that date was utilised to eliminate the deficit on the Company’s retained earnings account. As a condition  
of this cancellation, the Company has established a non-distributable ‘special reserve’ within retained earnings. At 4 April 2010, 
the balance on this special reserve was £18.1m (2009: £18.1m).
Group retained earnings include a non-distributable reserve in subsidiary companies of £3.0m (2009: £3.0m).
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 81  
28. Analysis of net debt
      Exchange  Other non- 
    5 April 2009 Cash flow movement   cash changes 4 April 2010 
Group    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash & cash equivalents    16,877 669 392 – 17,938
Bank loans    (33,144) 5,994 803 – (26,347)
Finance leases    (2) 2 – (153) (153)
Debt issue costs    1,482 131  (622) 991
Net debt    (14,787) 6,796 1,195 (775) (7,571)
Debt issue costs relate to bank facility arrangement fees. Amortisation of debt issue costs in the year amounted to £622,000 
(2009: £520,000).
29. Notes to the cash flow statement
   Group 
||
 Company
      2010  2009 2010  2009 
     £’000 £’000  £’000  £’000 
Profit/(loss) for the period     5,279  (19,384) 533 (14,427)
Adjustments for:
 Investment revenue     (71) (226) (1,947) (10,707)
 Finance costs     3,410 3,210 1,980 2,280
 Income tax expense     1,631 1,890 311 325
 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations     – 14,373 – 19,516
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment     2,200  2,575  18 196
 Impairment on property, plant and equipment      –  250  – –
 Amortisation of intangible assets      92  42  57 38
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment      6  18  – –
 Share option charge/(credit)     9  (132) 9 (132)
 Effects of foreign exchange rate changes     – – (208) (12,791)
 (Decrease)/Increase in provisions      (1,301)  929 (598) 3,041
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital    11,255  3,545  155 (12,661)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories      (3,354)  12,660  (459) 3,485
(Increase)/decrease in receivables     (523)  10,709  (6,643) (14,825)
Increase/(decrease) in payables     8,528  (9,662) 18,920 25,212
Movement in working capital      4,651  13,707  11,818 13,872
Cash generated from operations      15,906  17,252  11,973 1,211
Cash generated by operations before non-recurring items     18,561  21,784  13,542 3,622
Cash utilised by non-recurring items      (2,655)  (4,532) (1,569) (2,411)
Taxation paid      (1,840)  (1,622) – (262)
Interest paid      (2,198)  (2,271) (1,383) (1,432)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities     11,868  13,359  10,590 (483) Financial statements
82 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
30. Disposal of Wiring Harness Division
As referred to in note 8, in the prior year the Group disposed of the Wiring Harness Division, on 3 April 2009.
The net assets of the Wiring Harness Division at the date of disposal were as follows:
       Group Company 
       3 April 2009  3 April 2009  
       £’000 £’000
Intangible assets       42 40
Property, plant and equipment       874 658
Investments       – 101
Deferred tax asset       199 –
Inventories       6,366 5,016
Trade and other receivables       8,099 12,934
Bank balances and cash       608 608
Trade payables       (3,723) (2,211)
Provisions       (462) –
Net assets disposed       12,003 17,146
Loss on disposal       (14,373) (19,516)
       (2,370) (2,370)
   
       Group Company 
Satisfi ed by:       £’000 £’000
Deferred cash contribution       (1,816) (1,816)
Costs of disposal        (554) (554)
       (2,370) (2,370)
   
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Net cash outflows arising on disposal     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Settlement of deferred cash contribution     (1,619) – (1,619) –
Costs of disposal      (360) (154) (360) (154)
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of     – (608) – (608)
     (1,979) (762) (1,979) (762)
   
The settlement of deferred cash contribution includes £561,000 paid in respect of a working capital adjustment, £462,000 in 
respect of agreed restructuring expenditure incurred between the date of the disposal agreement and completion of the sale 
contract and £596,000 in relation to a specific trade receivable indemnity given to the acquirer. 
During the year the Group reached final agreement with the purchaser and concluded all outstanding issues arising from this 
disposal. An amount of £159,000 remains payable to the purchaser at 4 April 2010 and is due to be settled in quarterly instalments 
during the next financial year.
31. Operating lease arrangements
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following have been recognised during the year:
Minimum lease payments made under operating leases 
 Paid     5,562 7,671 1,038 966
 Recognised in operating profit      3,098 4,389 103 571
Minimum sub lease payments received under operating leases and credited to onerous lease provisions in the year was 
£1,210,000 (2009: £1,219,000) for the Group and £nil (2009: £nil) for the Company. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group and Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
   Group 
||
 Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year     5,510 6,287 1,088 966
In the second to fifth years inclusive     7,493 8,295 3,836 4,150
After five years     4,944 3,254 2,471 3,245
     17,947 17,836 7,395 8,361 
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 83  
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office and manufacturing properties. Leases 
are negotiated for an average term of seven years and rentals are fixed for an average of four years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group expects to receive £2.2m (2009: £2.6m) under non-cancellable sub-leases.
32. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option schemes
During the period the Group had three types of equity-settled share option schemes in operation; Discretionary Share Option 
Schemes (‘DSOS’), a Long Term Incentive plan (‘LTIP’) and a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’).
Following shareholder approval of the PSP at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 5 December 2008, it is anticipated that 
this scheme will be the primary scheme for providing long-term incentive arrangements to Executive Directors and other key 
executives and that future grants of equity-based share options will be made under this scheme. 
Options previously issued under the DSOS are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of the grant and are subject 
to the continued employment of the participant and the achievement of earnings per share performance targets. The exercise 
price was determined based on the market share price at date of grant. Further details of the scheme are given on page 41 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Options previously issued under the LTIP are exercisable between three years and three years and six months from the date of 
grant subject to the continued employment of the participant and achievement of earnings per share and share price performance 
targets. All awards under the LTIP have an exercise price of 25p, which is equivalent to the nominal value of the underlying 
Ordinary share. Full details of how the scheme operates are given on pages 40 to 41 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Options issued under the PSP are exercisable between three years and three years six months from the date of grant subject to 
the continued employment of the participant and achievement of share price performance targets. All awards under the PSP have 
an exercise price of 25p, which is equivalent to the nominal value of the underlying Ordinary share. Full details of how the scheme 
operates are given on pages 39 to 40 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Details of the share options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of those options are as follows:
   2010 
||
 2009
      Weighted  Weighted 
      average  average 
     Number of exercise Number of exercise 
     share price share price 
     options (p) options (p)
Outstanding at beginning of period     1,945,548 48 2,302,452 45
Granted during the period     1,672,945 25 1,644,292 25
Expired during the period     (1,226,166) 79 (2,001,196) 25
Outstanding at the end of the period     2,392,327 39 1,945,548 48
Of the share options that expired during the period, 998,456 options expired due to failure to meet performance conditions and 
227,710 lapsed in respect of leavers.
The options outstanding at 4 April 2010 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.5 years (2009: 1.2 years).
In 2010, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted during the year under the PSP on the dates stated in 
note 25 was £559,000 (2009: £263,000).
The fair values of the PSP awards were calculated at the date of grant using a stochastic (Monte Carlo binomial) model. The inputs 
into the valuation models were as follows:
       2010 2009
Weighted average share price       80.2p 61.2p
Weighted average exercise price       25p 25p
Expected volatility       50% 50%
Expected life       3.25 years 3.25 years
Risk-free rate       1.98% 4.87%
Expected dividends       – –
Expected volatility was determined with reference to historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Financial statements
84 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
The Group and Company recognised a total charge for equity-settled share options of £23,000 (2009: credit of £92,000). 
Cash-settled share-based payments
In September 2006, the Company issued to Richard Arkle, who was Chairman at that time, a Share Appreciation Right (‘Chairman 
SAR’) that requires the Company to pay the intrinsic value of the SAR at the date of exercise, conditional upon the achievement of 
certain performance targets. These performance targets have not been met and consequently the Chairman SAR has expired, 
with no payment payable. For further details regarding this arrangement please see page 41 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. 
Accordingly, at 4 April 2010, the Group and the Company has recorded a liability of £nil (2009: £14,000) in the statement of 
financial position and a credit of £14,000 (2009: £40,000) in the income statement, in respect of this arrangement. 
33. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The Company operates two Inland Revenue approved defined contribution schemes and makes contributions to a Group pension 
plan. Overseas the Group operates two defined contribution schemes, one in the USA and one in Ireland. 
The total cost charged to the Group’s income statement in the year was £1,446,000 (2009: £1,457,000). The total cost charged to 
the Company’s income statement in the year was £308,000 (2009: £340,000).
Defined benefit schemes
The Company maintains two Inland Revenue approved defined benefit schemes that are funded by payments held in independent 
trusts. Future accrual of retirement benefits under both schemes ceased on 31 March 2003 when the schemes were replaced 
with defined contribution arrangements. The last full actuarial valuation of the schemes was carried out by a qualified independent 
actuary in 1 August 2007. This valuation has been updated on an approximate basis to 4 April 2010 and utilises the projected unit 
credit valuation method. 
The key assumptions utilised are: 
     Valuation at
       2010 2009
Discount rate       5.5% 7.0%
Expected return on scheme assets       6.3% 6.3%
Future pension increases        3.6% 2.9%
Price inflation       3.8% 3.0%
The following mortality assumptions have been made:
       Males Females
Future life expectancy for a pensioner currently aged 65 (years)      22.1 25.0
Future life expectancy at age 65 for a non-pensioner currently aged 55 (years)    22.7 25.5
       2010 2009 
Amounts recognised in income statement (note 6)        £’000 £’000
Interest cost       (719) (775)
Expected return on scheme assets       536 737
Finance costs       (183) (38)
No other amounts have been recognised in the income statement (2009: £nil). 
Actuarial losses of £516,000 (2009: £285,000) have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income. 
       2010 2009 
Amounts recognised in balance sheet       £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets       11,067 9,217
Present value of defined benefit obligations       (13,453) (11,053)
Deficit in scheme recognised in the balance sheet       (2,386) (1,836)
Current liabilities       155 153
Non-current liabilities       2,231 1,683
       2,386 1,836
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)
32. Share-based payments continued  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 85  
The Company has contributed £149,000 to its defined benefit pension plans in the period ended 4 April 2010 (2009: £149,000).
       2010 2009 
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations        £’000  £’000
At beginning of period       (11,053) (13,181)
Interest cost       (719) (775)
Actuarial (losses)/gains       (3,247) 2,388
Benefits paid       1,566 515
At end of period       (13,453) (11,053)
       2010 2009 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets        £’000  £’000
At beginning of period       9,217 11,519
Expected return on scheme assets       536 737
Actuarial gains/(losses)       2,731 (2,673)
Contributions from the sponsoring company       149 149
Benefits paid       (1,566) (515)
At end of period       11,067 9,217
       2010 2009 
Composition of assets        £’000  £’000
Equity instruments        7,833 6,408
Debt instruments       3,043 2,673
Property       191 136
       11,067 9,217
None of the fair values of the assets shown above include any of the Company’s own financial instruments or any property 
occupied or other assets used by the Company (2009: £nil).
Expected long-term rates of return
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected 
returns on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset 
classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each 
asset class was then weighted based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets 
assumptions for the portfolio.
The expected long-term rates of return are as follows:
       2010 2009 
       % %
Equity instruments       6.8 7.1
Debt instruments       5.7 4.6
Property       6.8 7.1
       6.3 6.3
The actual return on scheme assets for the year was a gain of £3,267,000 (2009: loss of £1,936,000).
       2010 2009 
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity        £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year       719 1,004
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year       (516) (285)
At end of the year       203 719
Five-year history of experience adjustments    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Fair value of scheme assets    11,067 9,217 11,519 11,778 11,148
Present value of defined benefit obligations    (13,453) (11,053) (13,181) (14,614) (14,659)
Deficit in scheme    (2,386) (1,836) (1,662) (2,836) (3,511)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities    
£’000    55 (60) 493 – –
% scheme liabilities    0.4% (0.5%) 4.0% – –
Experience adjustments on scheme assets    
£’000    2,731 (2,673) (906) 12 1,478
% scheme assets    25% (29%) (8%) – 13% Financial statements
86 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
34. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the 
return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, 
which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 28 and equity attributable to 
equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as contained in the statement of changes 
in equity.
The Board reviews the capital structure on a regular basis including facility headroom, forecast working capital and capital 
expenditure requirements. 
The Group has a revolving credit facility, which after amortisation had an available limit of US$57.7m as at 4 April 2010 (2009: 
US$62.7m), comprising both a US Dollar and a Euro component. At 4 April 2010 the amounts drawn under this facility were 
US$21.7m and €13.5m. The average combined utilisation during the year was US$45.6m (2009: US$50.9m). In addition, the 
Group has a further €6.8m of undrawn committed facilities available at 4 April 2010.
At 4 April 2010 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £14.0m (2009: £11.4m). 
The revolving credit facility is due to mature in March 2012. 
Based on the Group’s projected financial performance the Board are confident that the combination of the above facilities 
provides adequate liquidity headroom for the successful execution of the Group’s operations and the Group will be able to operate 
in agreement with the required covenant levels. 
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank borrowings and overdrafts, finance leases, cash and short-term 
deposits. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk arising 
from its borrowings and forward currency contracts to manage the currency risks arising from its operations.
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are 
carried in the financial statements.
     Book value Book value Fair value Fair value 
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash     18,220 16,877 18,220 16,877
Trade and other receivables     58,166 58,869 58,166 58,869
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     25,638 31,662 25,638 31,662
Obligations under finance leases     153 2 153 2
Trade and other payables     61,949 56,963 61,949 56,963
Derivative financial instruments     371 248 371 248
Property provisions     6,804 7,371 6,804 7,371
Financial risk management
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and they are summarised below. The Group also monitors 
the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
It is, and has been throughout the periods under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall 
be undertaken.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises principally from borrowings issued at variable rates which expose the Group to cash flow 
interest-rate risk. 
The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by fixing 100% of the interest arising on its borrowings through the use of 
interest rate swap contracts.
Management does not consider the risk arising from finance leases to be significant.
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 87  
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
  Within 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 More than 
  1 year years years years years 5 years Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed rate:
Obligations under finance leases  (64) (51) (38) – – – (153)
Floating rate:
Cash assets  18,220 – – – – – 18,220
Bank loans and borrowings  (282) (26,347) – – – – (26,629)
Interest rate sensitivity
During the year the Group was fully hedged against interest rate risk arising on its borrowings through the use of interest rate swap 
contracts. Had interest rates been 0.5% higher/lower in the year, and all other variables were held constant, Group profit before 
tax would have been £56,000 higher / £28,000 lower (2009: £132,000 higher and lower). 
Interest rate swap contracts
Under interest rate swap contacts, the Group agrees to exchange differences between fixed and floating interest rate amounts 
calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates 
on the fair value of interest rates on issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held. 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the curves 
at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is based on the 
outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding at the 
reporting date.
   Average contract   Notional principal 
   fixed interest 
||
 amount
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts     % % £’000 £’000
Less than one year     2.2 3.9 29,841 16,571
1-2 years     2.2 – 19,894 –
2-3 years     2.2 – 9,947 –
Fair value       (371) (215)
The interest rate swap contracts are not designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and consequently the fair value 
adjustment of £371,000 has been reflected in the results for the year (2009: £215,000) (note 6).
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with 
respect to the US Dollar, Indian Rupee and Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised 
assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. 
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. At the balance sheet date the 
Group had £nil (2009: £1,357,000) of US Dollar/Indian Rupee forward exchange contracts in existence. The Group has certain 
investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s policy is to 
hedge its related translation exposures through the designation of certain amounts of its foreign currency denominated debt as a 
hedging instrument.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date 
are as follows:
   Liabilities 
||
 Assets
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
Euro     16,685 18,666 15,311 13,210
US Dollar     51,260 42,869 44,264 34,772
Indian Rupee     8,508 5,709 13,345 12,655 Financial statements
88 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
34. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% change in exchange rates against the Sterling equivalents.  
The 10% rate used represents management’s assessment of the possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity 
analysis of the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk at the reporting date has been determined based on the change taking 
place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period.
 US$ impact 
||
 EURO impact 
||
 INR impact
   2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
   £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
10% depreciation in rates
(i) Profit before tax   (2,082) (1,187) (451) (262) (119) (345)
(ii) Equity*   (92) 389 (1,834) (1,680) (275) (62)
10% appreciation in rates     
(i) Profit before tax   2,545 1,450 552 322 144 422
(ii) Equity*   113 (475) 2,241 2,053 336 75
(i)  This is mainly attributable to the exposure on net US$/EURO sales offset by gains against US$/EURO purchases, and retranslation of foreign currency balance sheet items.
(ii)  This is mainly attributable to the issue above and change in fair value of derivatives at the end of the financial year and the impact of the translation of foreign owned 
subsidiaries translated into Sterling.
* Excludes any deferred tax impact.
Credit risk
This refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The Group’s customers are predominantly large blue chip OEMs, contract equipment manufacturers and distributors. The Group 
regularly reviews the credit worthiness of significant customers and credit references are sought for major new customers where 
relevant. The Board recognises that credit risk is a feature of all businesses, especially international businesses. However, it 
believes that all reasonable steps to mitigate loss are taken.
The net amount of trade receivables reflects the maximum credit exposure to the Group. No other guarantees or security has 
been given.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities, regular monitoring of forecast and actual cash flows 
and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Included in note 20 is a description of undrawn facilities as at 
the balance sheet date. 
The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings to show the timing of cash flows 
associated with the financial liabilities from the balance sheet date to the contracted maturity date. The amounts disclosed 
represent the contracted undiscounted cash flows.
   Carrying Contractual Within 1–2 2–5 More than 
   amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 
2010   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade & other payables   61,949 61,949 61,949 – – –
Obligations under finance leases   153 172 72 57 43 –
Bank overdrafts and loans   26,629 26,629 282 26,347 – –
Property provisions   6,804 7,411 2,983 1,136 2,175 1,117
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps   371 381 206 175 – –
   Carrying Contractual Within 1–2 2–5 More than 
   amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 
2009   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables   56,963 56,963 56,332 631 – –
Obligations under finance leases   2 2 2 – – –
Bank overdrafts and loans   31,662 31,662 – – 31,662 –
Property provisions   7,371 7,971 2,568 2,962 1,128 1,313
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps   248 248 248 – – –
Notes to the financial statements continued
For the 52 weeks ended 4 April 2010 (53 weeks ended 5 April 2009)  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 89  
35. Contingent liabilities
As a global group, subsidiary companies, in the normal course of business, engage in significant levels of cross-border trading. 
The customs, duties and sales tax regulations associated with these transactions are complex and often subject to interpretation. 
While the Group places considerable emphasis on compliance with such regulations, including appropriate use of external legal 
advisors, full compliance with all customs, duty and sales tax regulations cannot be guaranteed. 
Customs and excise authorities in India and the USA are currently involved in examining customs and duty declarations made by 
subsidiary companies, Volex Interconnect (India) Pvt Ltd and Volex de Mexico SA de CV, across a number of years. Although the 
outcome of these investigations is uncertain and reliable measurement of any potential exposure not possible, the Directors are 
confident that any liability arising from these matters will not be material to the Group.
The Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Group companies. The Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it 
becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
36. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note. 
       2010 2009 
Compensation of key management – Directors of Parent Company       £’000  £’000
Short-term employee benefits       1,553 852
Money purchase pension contributions       50 88
Other long-term benefits       – (159)
Share-based payments       36 (43)
       1,639 738
Other long-term benefits in 2009 are shown as a credit balance due to benefits previously accrued reversing as the vesting 
conditions were not achieved.
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and 
interests for the period are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 45.
Company
During the period the Company levied the following charges on its subsidiary undertakings:
       2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000
Management fees       6,131 4,633
Royalty fees       2,133 2,547
Interest        1,947 4,643
       10,211 11,823
Amounts due to and from subsidiary undertaking are shown in notes 19 and 22. 90 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
United Kingdom
Volex Powercords Europe is a trading division of Volex Group plc.
Volex Group Holdings Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Volex Group plc which is registered in England and Wales and which 
acts as a holding Company, as detailed below.
Overseas
The principal overseas subsidiary undertakings, the business of which is the manufacture and/or sale of interconnect and cable 
assembly products, all of which are wholly owned, are as follows:
Name of entity Note    Country of incorporation/registration and operation
Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 1       Singapore
PT Volex Indonesia 2       Indonesia
PT Volex Cable Assembly 2       Indonesia
Volex Cable Assemblies (Phils) Inc. 2       Philippines
Volex Japan KK 2       Japan
Volex (Taiwan) Co. Ltd 2       Taiwan
Volex (Thailand) Co.Ltd 2       Thailand
Volex Cable Assembly (Vietnam) Pte Ltd 2       Vietnam
Volex Cable Assemblies Sdn Bhd 3       Malaysia
Volex Cables (HK) Ltd 3       Hong Kong
Volex Interconnect (India) Pvt Ltd 3       India
Volex Interconnect Systems (Suzhou) Co. Ltd 3       China
Volex Cable Assembly (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd 3       China
Volex Cable Assembly (Zhongshan) 3       China
Volex Inc. 1       USA
Volex Canada Inc. 1       Canada
Volex de Mexico SA de CV 4       Mexico
Volex do Brasil Ltda 1       Brazil
Volex Europe Ltd 3       Ireland
Volex Poland SP z.o.o 1       Poland
1. Interests held by Volex Group plc.
2. Interests held by Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd.
3. Interests held by Volex Group Holdings Ltd.
4. Interests held by Volex Inc.
Principal operating subsidiaries  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 91  
Five year summary
    Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited Unaudited 
    IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS 
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
Results    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue – total Group    228,995 302,820 259,765 248,725 250,378
Revenue from continuing operations    228,995 265,116 223,426 214,584 217,673
Revenue from discontinued operations    – 37,704 36,339 34,141 32,705
Gross margin – total Group    46,161 41,368 30,703 38,239 39,414
Gross margin from continuing operations    46,161 42,153 30,792 35,748 36,867
Gross margin from discontinued operations    – (785) (89) 2,491 2,547
Operating expenses – total Group    (32,808) (34,269) (26,365) (30,970) (42,683)
Operating expenses from continuing operations    (32,808) (30,978) (23,474) (24,548) (36,818)
Operating expenses from discontinued operations    – (3,291) (2,891) (6,422) (5,865)
 
Operating profit
(i)
 – total Group    13,353 7,099 4,338 7,269 (3,269)
Operating profit
(i)
 from continuing operations    13,353 11,175 7,318 11,200 49
Operating profit
(i)
 from discontinued operations    – (4,076) (2,980) (3,931) (3,318)
Operating exceptional items    (3,095) (4,740) (2,676) (1,994) (8,598)
Share-based payment (charge)/credit    (9) 132 132 (379) –
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation     6,910 3,583 (853) 2,816 (6,658)
Depreciation & amortisation – continuing operations    2,292 1,996 2,554 2,608 3,430
Depreciation & amortisation – discontinued operations   – 621 432 336 491
    Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings/(loss) per share – total Group    14.8 3.9 (1.5) 7.7 (1.0)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total Group    9.3 (34.1) (6.0) 1.5 (18.5)
Balance sheet    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets    10,570 11,228 10,287 11,550 13,837
Other assets and liabilities    9,661 9,828 33,359 24,092 25,532
    20,231 21,056 43,646 35,642 39,369
Less net debt    (7,571) (14,787) (21,010) (9,583) (13,274)
Net assets    12,660 6,269 22,636 26,059 26,095
Gearing    60% 236% 93% 37% 51%
(i) Defined as operating profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and share-based payment charges/(credits). 92 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
2009/10
Final results announced 1 June 2010
AGM 14 July 2010
2010/11
Interim results announced November 2010
Year end 3 April 2011
Final results announced June 2011
Registered office and advisors
Registered office
10 Eastbourne Terrace, London, W2 6LG, UK
www.volex.com 
Registered number
158956 (Registered in England and Wales)
Registrars
Capita Registrars plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
www.capita-irg.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Financial advisors
RBS Hoare Govett
NM Rothschild Ltd
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Stockbrokers
RBS Hoare Govett/ 
Charles Stanley Securities
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Financial PR
Buchanan Communications  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 93  
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of 
the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek you own advice from a 
stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Volex Group plc, please pass this document together with any 
accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass 
these documents to the purchaser or transferee who now holds the shares.
Volex Group plc
(the ‘Company’)
(incorporated and registered in England and Wales under number 00158956)
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice of Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 10 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG on 14 July 2010 at 
10.30am (the ‘Annual General Meeting’) is set out on pages 96 to 97 of this document.
A Form of Proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting accompanies this document.
Whether or not you proposed to attend the Annual General Meeting, please complete and submit the Form of Proxy in 
accordance with the instructions printed on it. The Form of Proxy must be deposited at the offices of the Registrar of the 
Company, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not later  
than 10.30am on 12 July 2010.
Annual General Meeting 94 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Dear Shareholder
The 2010 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 14 July 2010 in accordance with the Notice of the 
Meeting included on page 96 to 97 of the document. The Form of Proxy is enclosed separately.
The meeting will consider five items of ordinary business and five items of special business, details of which are set out below. 
Each resolution will be proposed as a separate resolution.
Ordinary Business
Resolution 1 – Annual Reports and Accounts
Shareholders will be asked to receive and adopt the Accounts for the year ended 4 April 2010 together with the Reports of the 
Directors and the Auditors therein.
Resolution 2 – Approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report
In accordance with Section 241B of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) the Company is required to submit the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to its shareholders for approval.
Resolution 3 – Re-election of Richard Arkle
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Richard Arkle, offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 4 – Re-election of Michael McTighe
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Michael McTighe, offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which its accounts are presented, to hold office until the 
next general meeting. This resolution proposes that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, having indicated their willingness to continue in 
office, be re-appointed as auditors for the current financial year and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
Special Business
Resolution 6 – Authority to allot relevant securities
Pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act, 2006 (‘the Act’) the Directors may only issue relevant securities, including new 
shares if the Company has given them prior authority to do so. It is common practice for public companies to renew this authority 
each year at the annual general meeting. The Board recommends that this authority be renewed and paragraph (a) of resolution 6 
will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot the Company’s unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of £4,735,130 
which represents an amount equal to one-third of the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally allotted ordinary 
share capital of the Company. All previous authorities under section 551 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
In December 2008 the Association of British Insurers issued guidance on the approval of authorities to allot shares, in which it 
stated that, in addition to requests for authorisation to allot new shares in an amount up to one-third of the existing issued share 
capital of a company, it would regard as routine, requests to authorise the allotment of a further one-third in connection with a 
rights issue. In the light of this, paragraph (b) of resolution 6 proposes that a further authority be conferred on the Directors to allot 
shares in connection with a rights issue up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £9,470,260 (such amount to be reduced 
by the nominal amount of any relevant securities issued under the authority conferred by paragraph (a) of resolution 6). This 
represents an amount which is equal to two thirds of the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally allotted 
ordinary share capital of the Company.
In the event that this further authority is exercised, the Directors intend to follow best practice as regards its use (including as to 
the requirement for Directors to stand for re-election) as issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The authorities sought in paragraphs (a) and (b) of resolution 6 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the 
Company’s articles of association or otherwise.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 7 – Authority to allot equity securities
Where Directors are authorised to allot equity securities, then pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act, a company may 
by special resolution, resolve that the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer 
such shares to existing shareholders in accordance with section 561(1) of the Act. At the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the 
Company, a special resolution was passed, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 providing for such authorisation to 
expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company. It is proposed that this authority be renewed until the conclusion of the 
next Annual General Meeting following the passing of this resolution or on 30th September 2011, whichever is earlier. All previous 
authorities under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect. If approved, the resolution will authorise the 
Directors, in accordance with Articles of Association, to issue shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue 
shares for cash up to the aggregate nominal amount of £1,420,540 which represents approximately 10% of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company as at 4 April 2010. The Board does not intend to issue more than 10% of the issued share capital of   Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 95  
the Company in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of 
British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds. This authority also allows the Directors, within the same aggregate 
limits, to sell relevant shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash. The Directors have no present intention of 
exercising this authority.
Resolution 8 – Authority to purchase own shares
At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held 29th July 2009, shareholders authorised the Company to make market 
purchases of its own shares. If passed this resolution will allow for the renewal of the Company’s authority to make market 
purchase of its own ordinary shares of 25p each, up to a maximum of 8,523,234 shares (being approximately 15% of the current 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company); such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of 
the Company or on 30th September 2011, whichever is earlier. The amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses) shall not 
be more than the higher of (i) five per cent above the average market value of an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official 
List of London Stock Exchange for the five business days before the purchase is made; (ii) the price of the last independent trade 
and current independent bid as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading system or less than 25p per share. The 
Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, and in view of the deferment of payment of dividends in respect of cumulative 
preference shares of the Company, holders of such cumulative preference shares are entitled to attend the vote, either in person 
or by proxy, at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 9 – Electronic communications with shareholders
To authorise the Company to supply any document or information to shareholders that is required or authorised to be sent or 
supplied by the Company by making it available on a website or by other electronic means.
Resolution 10 – Length of notice of general meetings other than AGMs
Under the Companies Act 2006 prior to 3 August 2009, the minimum notice period to be given for general meetings other than 
Annual General Meetings was 14 days. However, the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) regulations 2009, which came into force 
on 3 August 2009 amended this requirement by increasing the minimum notice period for general meetings of a listed company to 
21 days but with an ability for such a company to reduce this period back to 14 days provided that:
(a)  the company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means. This condition is met if the company has a facility 
enabling all shareholders to appoint a proxy by means of a website; and
(b)  on an annual basis, a shareholders’ resolution approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days 
is passed.
Resolution 10 therefore proposes as a special resolution that the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the 
Company other than annual general meetings be reduced to 14 days. The approval of this resolution will be effective until the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011, when it is intended that the approval will be renewed.
Recommendations
The Board of Directors of the Company consider the resolutions set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 96 
to 97 of this document to be in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders of the Company as a whole and therefore 
recommend that you vote in favour of these resolutions.
Mike McTighe
Chairman 96 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the ninetieth Annual General Meeting of Volex Group plc (the ‘Company’) will be held at 10 
Eastbourne Terrace, London, W2 6LG on 14th July 2010 at 10.30am for the following purposes.
Ordinary Business
As ordinary business to consider and, it thought fit, to pass the following resolutions to be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive and adopt the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors and the Accounts for the year ended 4 April 2010.
2. To approve the Director’s Remuneration Report as set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2010.
3. To re-elect Richard Arkle as a Director.
4. To re-elect Michael McTighe as a Director.
5.  To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general 
meeting of the Company at which the accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration.
Special Business
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolution 6 will be proposed as an 
ordinary resolution and resolutions 7 to 10 will be proposed as special resolutions:
To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
6.  THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies 
Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to allot
(a)  relevant securities (within the meaning of section 551 of the Act), up to an aggregate nominal amount of £4,735,130 
representing a number of ordinary shares of 25 pence each (the ‘Shares’) equivalent to approximately one third of the issued 
share capital of the Company at the date of this notice; and
(b)  equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the Act) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £9,470,260 representing a 
number of ordinary shares of 25 pence each (the ‘Shares’) equivalent to approximately two thirds of the issued share capital of 
the Company at the date of this notice (such an amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of relevant securities 
issued under paragraph (a) above) in connection with a rights issue to holders of Shares in proportion (as nearly as maybe) to 
their holding of such Shares and so that the Directors may impose such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may 
deem necessary or expedient to deal with equity securities representing fractional entitlements and with legal or practical 
problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise.
7.  THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 6 as set out in the notice of this meeting, and in accordance with Article 17 of the 
Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be empowered pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) for cash pursuant to the 
general authority conferred by resolution 6 as set out in the notice of this meeting and sell relevant shares (as defined in section 
560 of the Companies Act 2006) held by the Company as treasury shares (as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 
2006) for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale, provided that this power 
shall be limited to allotments of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares:
(i)  in connection with or pursuant to an offer by way of rights, open offer or other pre-emptive offer to the holders of shares in the 
Company and other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to their respective holdings, 
subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional 
entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the regulations or requirements of any regulatory 
authority or any stock exchange in any territory.
(ii)  otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,420,540 and such power shall 
expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 or on 30 September 2011, whichever 
is earlier, but so that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity 
securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry, and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell 
treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 97  
8.  THAT, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Article 10.2 of the Articles of Association of the 
Company and pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases (as defined in section 693 of 
the Companies Act 2006) of up to 8,523,234 Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company (being approximately 
15 per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company) on such terms and in such manner as the Directors of 
the Company may from time to time determine, provided that:
(a)  the amount paid for each share (exclusive of expenses) shall be not more than the higher of (i) five percent above the average 
market value of an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business 
days before the date on which the contract for the purchase is made, or (ii) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the 
last independent trade and current independent bid as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading system or less than 
25p per share; and
(b)  the authority herein contained shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 
or on 30 September 2011, whichever is earlier, provided that the Company may, before such expiry, make a contract to 
purchase its own shares which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and the Company may make a 
purchase of its own shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority hereby conferred hereby had not expired.
9. THAT
(a)  the Company may send or supply any document or information to shareholders that is required or authorised to be sent or 
supplied by the Company:
 (i) under the Act; or
 (ii) pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association; or
 (iii)  pursuant to any other rules or regulations to which the Company may be subject
 by making it available on a website or by other electronic means;
(b)  the relevant provisions of the Act shall apply;
(c)  this resolution shall supersede any provision of the Articles of Association to the extent that it is inconsistent with this 
resolution.
10.  THAT as permitted by section 307A of the Companies Act 2006 any general meeting of the Company (other than the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company) shall be called by notice of at least 14 clear days in accordance with the provisions of the 
Articles of Association of the Company provided that the authority of this Resolution shall expire on the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
By order of the Board,
Nick Temple
Company Secretary
Volex Group plc
Registered in England and Wales No. 00158956
Registered Office:
10 Eastbourne Terrace
London W2 6LG 98 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Notes of the Notice of Annual General Meeting
1.  Resolutions 1 to 6 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more 
than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolutions. Resolutions 7 to 10 are proposed as special resolutions.  
This means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, as least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour  
of the resolution.
2.  Holders of ordinary shares and holders of preference shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General 
Meeting convened by this Notice.
3.  In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only the holders of ordinary and holders of 
preference shares entered on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on, 12 July 2010 shall be entitled to 
attend either in person or by proxy, and the number of ordinary and preference shares then registered in their respective 
names shall determine the number of notes such persons are entitled to case at the meeting. Changes to entries on the 
register of members after 6.00pm on 12 July 2010, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or 
vote at the meeting.
4.  A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above meeting may appoint another person as his proxy to attend, speak 
and vote on his behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is 
appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him. A proxy need not be a member of the 
Company. Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person, should 
he / she subsequently decide to do so.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy the form of proxy. Please indicate the proxy holder’s name and the number of 
shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy (which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares 
held by you). Please also indicate in the box provided, if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given. All forms 
must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
5.  To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is 
signed (or an office copy thereof or a copy thereof certified in accordance with section 3 of the Powers of Attorney Act 1971), 
must reach the Company’s Registrars, Proxy Department, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent, BR3 4TU not less that 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
6.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy 
information rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she 
was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.  
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such 
agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
7.  The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 5 and 6 above does not 
apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the 
Company.
8.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do 
so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2010 and any adjournment(s) thereof by utilising the procedures 
described in the CREST Manual, CREST Personal Members of other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members 
who have appointed a voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made my means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy 
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited’s (‘EUROCLEAR’) specifications 
and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be 
transmitted so as to be received by the Company’s agent (ID RA 10) by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments 
specified in this Notice of Annual General Meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined 
by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the 
message and enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUROCLEAR does 
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore 
apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or if, 
CREST member is CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes), such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by 
means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this context, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical 
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified 
Securities Regulations 2001.  Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010 99  
9.  As at Monday 14 June (being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice) the Company’s issued share capital 
consisted of 56,821,563 ordinary shares of 25p each carrying one vote each and 80,000 7% cumulative preference shares of 
£1.00 each. In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, in view of the deferment of the payment of 
dividends in respect of the cumulative preference shares, holders of those shares are entitled to attend and vote whether in 
person or by proxy at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. Therefore, the number of total voting rights in the Company (on a poll) 
as at Monday 14 June are 56,901,563.
10.  Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under section 
527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter 
relating to:
 (i)  the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before 
the Annual General Meeting; or
 (ii)  any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not 
require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 
528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of 
the Companies Act 2006, it must be forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes 
the statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any 
statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
11.  In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that
 (i)  if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in 
accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a 
poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a 
vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and
 (ii)  if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate 
shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate 
representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other 
corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders 
are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate 
representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of 
appointment letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
12.  Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointed of each of the Directors will be available for inspection at the registered 
office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday (Saturdays and public holidays excluded) and at the place 
of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
13.  Biographical details of each Director who is being proposed for re-election, including their membership of Board committees, 
are set out on pages 32 to 33 of the Report and Accounts 2010. 100 Volex Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Notes Overview
Volex is committed to enhancing shareholder value by 
providing high-quality interconnect solutions and power 
products to our customers around the world, and to 
working closely with our customers to optimise our 
solutions’ contribution to the performance of their own 
high-tech products and solutions.
With expertise across a broad range of interconnect and 
power products, Volex provides its customers with 
complete cable-assembly solutions encompassing design, 
manufacturing, testing and flexible delivery to all regions.
Our products are used in many high-tech products and 
services vital to modern life: communications networks, 
medical equipment, power generation, and everyday 
business devices and domestic equipment. 2010
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Return to growth
Volex Group plc
10 Eastbourne Terrace
London W2 6LG
United Kingdom
Tel:  +44 (0)20 3370 8830
Fax: +44 (0)20 3370 8831
www.volex.com
Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010    
 
Disclaimer 
 
 
Notes to the Annual Report and Accounts:  
 
This PDF version of the Volex Group plc (Volex) Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
is an exact copy of the document provided to Volex shareholders. 
 
Certain sections of the Volex Annual Report and Accounts 2010 have been 
audited. The sections that have been audited are set out on pages 50 to 89 
together with the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report as set out 
on pages 38 to 45. 
 
Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and 
integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular 
whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first 
published. These matters are the responsibility of the Directors but no control 
procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area. 
 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
 
 
Disclaimer:  
 
The material provided in the Volex Annual Report and Accounts 2010 is for 
information purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal 
rights on you. 
 
The Annual Report and Accounts 2010 do not constitute an invitation to invest in 
Volex shares. Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely 
your responsibility. 
 
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any 
forward-looking statements are made subject to the reservations specified on 
page 47 of the Directors’ Report. 
 
