  Connecting 
your world
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Overview Governance 
Who we are 01
Volex at a glance 02
Highlights 06
Chairman’s letter 07
Our business model 08
Chairman’s introduction to governance 39
Board of Directors 40
Corporate governance report 42
Directors’ remuneration report 48
Directors’ report 57
Independent auditor’s report 64
Business review Financial statements 
Our measurement of performance 10
Chief Executive’s market and performance review 12
Consumer 16
Telecoms/Datacoms 18
Healthcare 20
Industrial 22
Manufacturing operations and supply chain 24
Technology 25
Financial review 26
Group risk management 32
Corporate responsibility 37
Consolidated income statement 66
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 67
Consolidated and Company statement of ﬁnancial position 68
Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity 69
Consolidated and Company statement of cash ﬂows 70
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 71
Principal operating subsidiaries 111
Five year summary 112
Shareholder information 113
In this year’ s report Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 01
Who we are
We are a leading provider of interconnect solutions 
and power products, servicing the telecommunications, 
datacoms/datacentre, industrial, consumer and 
medical sectors.
Volex’s products and solutions are integral to the 
increasingly sophisticated digital world in which 
we live, providing power and connectivity across 
a wide range of markets.
Whether at work, at play or on the move, 
Volex’s products are never far away.
Consumer
Cabling solutions 
for everyday 
consumer 
electronic items
Telecoms/ 
Datacoms
Cabling solutions 
for telecoms 
network operators 
and datacentres
Healthcare 
Cabling solutions 
for patient 
monitoring  
and imaging 
systems
Industrial
Cabling solutions 
for a diverse range 
of industries 
including 
renewable energy 
and transport Our customers are manufacturers of 
electrical and electronic devices and 
appliances, primarily for consumer 
markets but also for business users. 
Our products are used in laptops, PCs 
and tablets, printers, TVs, DVDs, games 
consoles, power tools, kitchen appliances 
and ﬂoor cleaning equipment.
Our customers are manufacturers of 
vital equipment used in telecoms networks, 
datacentres and high performance 
computing centres. Our solutions 
are geared to the need for increasing 
rates of data transmission, delivered in 
sufﬁcient volume to support ongoing 
roll-out of infrastructure in many countries.
Volex supplies to large and medium-
sized manufacturers of critical medical 
equipment such as Imaging systems 
(MRI scanners, X-Ray), Clinical 
Diagnostics systems, and Patient 
Monitoring systems. 
02
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview
Market drivers
 – Growth in new product categories e.g. 
tablet computers, 3D-TVs, next-generation 
games consoles.
 – Demand for environmentally-friendly 
components, e.g. halogen-free cabling.
 – Manufacturers choosing global, 
high quality suppliers over low-cost 
local suppliers.
Consumer Telecoms/Datacoms Healthcare
Volex at a glance
Key products
PVC power cords.
Halogen-free power cords.
2nd-generation duck head plugs.
Customer joint designed power cords.
Key products
High speed copper cable assemblies.
QSFP-FDR data rate. 
High density miniSAS.
Industry-standard input/output (I/O) 
cable assemblies.
Market drivers
 – Smartphone-led demand for internet 
services accessed over mobile phone 
networks – leading to deployment 
of 3G and 4G/LTE networks.
 – Ongoing build out of mobile phone 
networks in developing countries.
 – Demand for datacentres driven by 
increasing consumer internet trafﬁc. 
 – IT data and applications for enterprises 
being hosted in the network ‘cloud’ .
Key products
Complex customised medical harnesses.
MR coil cables.
Internal and external deﬁbrillator paddles.
Blood-pressure transducer cables.
Hospital grade power cords.
Optical ﬁbre solutions.
Revenue Revenue Revenue Normalised* Proﬁt Normalised* Proﬁt Normalised* Proﬁt
$3 11.0m $82.2m $46. 9m $45.9m $19.5m $12.8m 
2012: $330.4m 2012: $99.4m 2012: $51.7m 2012: $59.1m 2012: $21.0m 2012: $14.2m
Volex provides high quality electrical and optical connection solutions to customers 
around the world. We work closely with our customers throughout their product 
development cycles to design, develop and manufacture connection solutions that 
meet their speciﬁc business requirements. Our customers are equipment manufacturers 
in four market sectors: Consumer, Telecoms/Datacoms, Healthcare and Industrial.
Contribution to  
Group Revenue
Contribution  
to Group Proﬁt
Contribution to  
Group Revenue
Contribution  
to Group Proﬁt
Contribution to  
Group Revenue
Contribution  
to Group Proﬁt
66 % 17% 23 % 10% 1 5 %
Market drivers
 – Increasing demand for healthcare services 
from growing ‘middle classes’ in China, 
India, and other fast-developing countries.
 – Ageing populations in developed countries 
placing increased demand on healthcare 
providers, in turn driving need for efﬁciency 
through automation.
 – Increased emphasis on monitoring and 
early diagnosis, to avoid cost of treating 
acute conditions.
54 %
* Before non-recurring items and share-based payments expense Volex supplies to customers in a range 
of industrial segments including vehicle 
telematics, solar power, agricultural 
equipment and manufacturing 
automation/robotics.
03
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Industrial
As the trend towards globalisation continues, Volex is well positioned to serve 
and engage with customers on a global basis, from engineering design to 
manufacturing and delivery to account management. We maintain production 
and distribution facilities on four continents in order to be a ‘local’ partner 
to customers, better supporting their global operational requirements.
Our global capacity
 Global headquarters
London United Kingdom
 Manufacturing units
Brazil Jacarei 
China Shenzhen, Zhongshan, Suzhou
India Chennai
Indonesia Batam
Mexico Tijuana
Poland Bydgoszcz
Vietnam Ha Noi
 Sales/Engineering units
Canada Ottawa
China Hong Kong, Beijing
Ireland Castlebar
Japan Yokohama Osaka
Malaysia Selangor
Phillippines Laguna
Singapore
Taiwan Taipei
Thailand Bangkok
Turkey Istanbul
USA Hickory, NC, Santa Clara, CA
Revenue Normalised* Proﬁt
$33.0m $7 . 1m 
2012: $36.3m 2012: $8.2m
Key products
Complex cable assembly harnesses, tailored 
to speciﬁc types of industrial equipment.
Standard input/output (I/O) cable assemblies.
Contribution to  
Group Revenue
Contribution  
to Group Proﬁt
7% 8%
Market drivers
 – Private and public investment in 
renewable energy such as solar power.
 – Enhanced manufacturing efﬁciency and 
quality through investment in automation.
 – Growth in trucking telematics enabling 
ﬂeets to boost productivity and 
enhance safety. 04
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview
Volex markets  
& opportunities
Consumer Keeping you powered up
Mobile device growth
The mobile device market is growing at 15% per 
annum. Products to power and recharge these 
devices represents a signiﬁcant opportunity for Volex. 
Products to power and recharge these devices 
represents a signiﬁcant opportunity for Volex.
Duck head proliferation
Increasing OEM adoption of the duck head adaptor 
in their power solutions plays to our strengths, given 
the duck head design and manufacturing expertise 
that we have developed in the last few years.
T elecoms/Datacoms Staying connected
4G and the cloud
High speed and secure connectivity is the future. 
Our high speed/high data integrity interconnects 
are designed and perfectly positioned to support 
the high speed revolution.
Active Optical (AOC)
Datacentre and telecoms operators are increasingly 
demanding cost-effective, high speed ﬁbre solutions to 
replace legacy copper based products. Our acquisition 
of the Applied Micro optical technology platform in the 
year enables us to participate fully in the emerging 
mutli-billion dollar optical interconnect market. 05
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Healthcare Signal integrity & reliability
Global demographics
As the global population ages and disposable 
incomes rise, particularly in emerging economies, 
demand for healthcare will continue to rise. 
Early diagnosis
Funding this burgeoning demand for healthcare 
is a global concern. Recognising this, there is 
increased emphasis on early diagnosis and patient 
monitoring and that is driving Volex to partner with 
its customers to develop interconnect solutions that 
improve these critical activities.
Industry High performance durability
Sensor prevalence
The world is becoming sensor dependent. CNN 
recently named data analytics as the leading job 
opportunity in 2020, and accurate interpretation 
of the sensor -driven data demands high 
performance durability from its interconnects.
Automation
Whether it is robotics on assembly lines or testing 
equipment in manufacturing plants, companies are 
seeking efﬁciency , performance, quality , environmental 
and safety improvements through automation. Volex’ s 
range of ruggedised products and its ‘harsh environment’ 
expertise mean it is well positioned to capitalise on 
the industry trends. Operational highlights
Highlights
Financial highlights
Revenue
$473.2m
FY2012: $517 .8m
 
Statutory operating proﬁt 
$4.2m
FY2012: $23.0m
Return on capital employed
(2)
 
(‘ROCE’) 
17%
FY2012: 58%
Free cash ﬂow
(3)
$20. 7 m
FY2012: $18.3m inﬂow
as a result of lower proﬁt, increased 
capex and restructuring costs
Normalised
(1)
 operating proﬁt
$12.3m
FY2012: $32.0m 
Normalised
(1)
 diluted 
earnings per share (EPS)
11.2 cents
FY2012: 42.4 cents
Basic loss per share of 1.6 cents (FY2012: 
basic earnings per share of 30.4 cents)
Final dividend
3.0 cents
FY2012: 3.0 cents
Bringing total FY2013 dividend to 5.0 cents 
(FY2012: 4.5 cents)
Normalised
(1)
 gross margin
18.0%
FY2012: 19 .8%
Net debt
$19 .5m
FY2012: net cash of $3.6m
Management changes
Group-wide restructuring initiative 
proceeding to plan and expected to deliver 
circa $17 .5m annualised savings from 
FY2014 at a cost of $7 .2m. Group headcount 
reduced from H1 2013 peak of 9,750 down 
to 7 ,300 by year end
Acquisition of active optical technology 
platform represents an important step 
in developing a higher margin product 
portfolio and provides access to an 
emerging, strongly growing optical 
interconnect market
Despite challenging market conditions, 
our non-consumer sectors all maintained 
strong normalised gross margins in 
excess of 20%
Investment in our manufacturing 
capabilities with extensive upgrades to 
our Shenzhen and Batam facilities
Appointment of Christoph Eisenhardt as 
the new Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Christoph, 
comes from KVT-Koenig where he was 
CEO and led its transformation to deliver 
record sales and proﬁtability
Management team strengthened with 
the appointment of a new Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer and a Senior Vice President, Sales 
and Marketing
(1) Before non-recurring items and share-based payments charge
(2) Return on capital employed deﬁned as normalised operating proﬁt divided by net trading assets,  
where net trading assets is the aggregate of intangible assets (excluding goodwill), tangible ﬁxed  
assets, inventory and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables 
(3) Free cash ﬂow deﬁned as net cash ﬂow before dividends, payments to acquire own shares, 
 reﬁnancing costs paid and cash ﬂows arising on disposal of operations 
06
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Dividend
The Board is recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend of 3.0 cents (2012: 3.0 cents) 
bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 5.0 cents (FY2012: 4.5 cents). Subject to 
shareholder approval at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, a scrip 
alternative to the cash dividend is also 
being offered. This scrip dividend 
alternative is proposed in order to give 
shareholders the opportunity to increase 
their shareholding without incurring 
dealing costs or stamp duty whilst at 
the same time enabling the Company 
to continue to invest in the business.
People
I am pleased to announce the 
appointment of Christoph Eisenhardt 
as the new Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
who succeeds Ray Walsh, effective 
1 July 2013. 
In December, Daniel Abrams was 
appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (‘CFO’). 
He was previously CFO at Fiberweb plc. 
In January 2013, Roger Wendelken was 
appointed as Senior Vice President, Sales 
& Marketing and has taken immediate 
steps to improve our sales function and 
strengthen our customer relationships. 
Non-Executive Director, Karen Slatford, has 
assumed the role of Deputy Chairman. 
Karen’s background, particularly her 
experience in global sales and marketing 
with Hewlett Packard, provides the team 
with additional focus and support. 
During the year, Andrew Cherry 
resigned from the Board. 
I would particularly like to thank Ray Walsh 
for the very signiﬁcant contribution he 
has made in repositioning the Company 
and developing the business over the last 
four years.
I would like to thank my fellow Directors 
for their support during the year and pay 
a sincere tribute to the commitment and 
enthusiasm of all our employees across 
the business. In a year of challenge and 
change, the loyalty of our customers, 
suppliers and shareholders was 
particularly appreciated.
Outlook
This has been a tough year for Volex. 
In hindsight we had become overly 
dependent on one customer and we 
then compounded the issue with some 
operational missteps. Since this became 
clear, we have taken rapid and aggressive 
action to address our cost structure and 
product margin. Signiﬁcant progress has 
been made to right-size the business. 
Management has held itself accountable 
and we have moved to further strengthen 
the team. Our sales function has been 
adapted to better serve our key customers 
and identify new business opportunities, 
our manufacturing capacity has been 
scaled back to reﬂect today’s reality, and 
important investments have been made 
in technology, extending Volex’s product 
portfolio. Our emphasis now is to further 
reﬁne our customer/revenue mix to reduce 
volatility and enhance margin and to 
thoughtfully review all aspects of our 
operational structure to determine what 
further improvements can be made. 
We are pleased to announce the 
appointment of Christoph Eisenhardt 
as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Under 
his leadership, we look forward to 
improving Volex’s performance and 
rebuilding shareholder value. Whilst we 
anticipate that the trading environment 
will remain tough in the short term, 
especially in the ﬁrst half of FY2014, the 
Group is trading in line with the Board’s 
expectations and I am conﬁdent that we 
will be able to build on the actions we have 
taken to date to enable us to deliver higher 
quality earnings. 
Mike McTighe
Chairman
FY2013 was a tough year for Volex. The 
macroeconomic environment remained 
tough and we were confronted with a 
reduction in revenue from some of our key 
customers which, combined with planned 
investment in production capacity, led to 
results that were signiﬁcantly below our 
initial expectations. 
During the year we commenced a 
restructuring plan for the business 
and took immediate action to cut costs, 
improve margins and thereby increase 
underlying proﬁtability. We deepened the 
restructuring programme when it became 
clear that we needed to adopt a more 
robust approach to cost containment, 
sales leadership and migration to a 
higher margin product portfolio. 
We have, however, continued to invest 
in our manufacturing capabilities 
throughout the year and acquired third 
party intellectual property to enhance our 
own product offerings and meet demand 
from existing customers. 
Through these decisive actions we have 
emerged from FY2013 better positioned 
for FY2014 and beyond. 
Mike McTighe
Chairman
Chairman’ s letter
We have taken rapid and 
decisive action to address 
our cost structure and 
product margin following 
a tough year.
07
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We use our global technical and 
commercial expertise to design 
solutions that i) meet the power and 
connectivity needs of our customers 
today and ii) address the challenges 
our customers are facing with their 
next-generation products.
We collaborate with our customers’ 
engineering team at an early stage 
of the design/development cycle to 
produce design blueprints that utilise 
latest technologies to ensure cost-
effective, high performance products.
We develop a manufacturing 
approach, using our process 
and tooling expertise to produce 
product samples for validating 
all performance requirements.
Customer outcomes
 – High performing interconnect and powercord 
products that allow the customers’ 
products to perform to their fullest potential;
 – Enables customer engineering teams 
to concentrate on their core business of 
designing and improving their own products.
Volex outcomes
 – Acknowledged as powercord and 
interconnect technical experts;
 – Early engagement with customers on 
product design, providing solutions to their 
problems, promotes ‘trusted partner’ status.
We manage, on behalf of our 
customers, the sourcing of all required 
components, for their connection and 
power solutions.
We seek to own the bill of materials 
for all our products, allowing selection 
of components that offer the best 
all round performance, after 
considering cost, quality and delivery 
response times.
We operate a ﬂexible supply chain 
that is responsive to the needs of 
our customers and treats suppliers 
as strategic business partners rather 
than routine transactional suppliers.
Customer outcomes
 – Best quality, cost and lead-times for 
interconnect and power cord components;
 – Access to Volex expertise in managing 
interconnect and power cord supply chain.
Volex outcomes
 – Use of best quality/cost components 
enables price competitiveness to our 
customers and robust margins for Volex;
 – Strengthens our relationship with customers 
and further underscores their trust in us.
We manufacture and test interconnect 
and powercord products according to 
customer requirements for volume, 
quality, lead-time and price.
We manufacture products that we 
have designed internally or from 
third party designs.
Our global manufacturing footprint 
and distribution hubs enable 
cost-efﬁcient localised production 
and effective inventory control.
Customer outcomes
 – High quality interconnect and powercord 
products, that meet or exceed technical 
performance and cosmetic requirements, 
produced and delivered in required 
volumes and on time;
 – E fficient production processes allow c ompetitive 
pricing that supports customer proﬁtability.
Volex outcomes
 – Increases Volex proﬁtability by providing 
high quality products that meet our 
customers’ needs;
 – Our advanced manufacturing capabilities 
strengthen customer relationships, leading 
to further business opportunities.
Strategic value drivers
 – Deep engagement with customers in their 
product development cycles at an early stage 
str engthens our r elationship s with c u st omers and 
enables V olex to grow as our customers grow;
 – Develop and acquire core technology 
competencies that can be applied across 
different products and customers;
 – Target higher margins by providing 
value-added design expertise rather 
than contract manufacturing.
Strategic value drivers
 – Identiﬁcation of components with optimal 
cost/performance balance increases 
value-add to our customers and drives 
longer term margin improvement;
 – Global procurement relationships and 
capabilities provides Volex a competitive 
advantage by enabling us to meet our 
customers’ geographic and volume 
requirements at lowest possible raw 
material input cost.
Strategic value drivers
 – Enhancing our partner relationships with 
customers by exceeding their expectations 
for product ﬁt, form, function and timely 
delivery, with increased efﬁciency and 
reduced waste to drive margin gains;
 – Embed a ‘continuous-improvement’ 
culture across Volex’s manufacturing sites 
by systematically identifying and removing 
waste to reduce costs and increase proﬁt;
 – Drive product quality and productivity 
through enhanced technology 
and processes.
08
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview
Our business model
Volex’s business model is based on adding value to customer 
products, delivered through our expertise in design and 
development, manufacturing and testing, and excellent 
service from a global footprint.
Account Management
We engage with our customers in long term business 
relationships to understand their speciﬁc business 
requirements, so that our whole service aligns with 
their own business objectives.
Design & Development Supply Chain Management Manufacturing & Testing Our service to customers provides 
ﬂexibility in meeting customers’ 
delivery requirements, in terms of 
date, volume and location.
We maintain facilities in four continents 
in order to be a ‘local’ supplier to 
customers and better support their 
own production and speed to market 
objectives. Our customer hubs enable 
us to support fully our customers’ 
just-in-time manufacturing processes.
Scalable logistics capability to fulﬁl 
customer demand spikes.
Customer outcomes
 – Optimal supply lead-times for interconnects 
and powercord products, delivered on 
time to sites in different regions.
Volex outcomes
 – Customer orders fulﬁlled efﬁciently and 
on time;
 – Our advanced manufacturing capabilities 
strengthen customer relationships, leading 
to further business opportunities.
Despite a disappointing trading performance 
in FY2013, partly as a result of the challenging 
macroeconomic environment, management 
has re-iterated its conﬁdence in the strength of 
the Volex business model, by recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend in respect of FY2013 of 3.0 cents. Taken 
together with the interim dividend of 2.0 cents per 
share, this represents a total dividend of 5.0 cents 
per share in respect of FY2013 earnings.
Dividends in FY2013 and FY2011 amounted 
to 4.5 cents per share and 2.0 pence per 
share respectively.
Strategic value drivers
 – Positions Volex as possible supplier-of-
choice to major customers who need 
to operate globally;
 – Minimise inventory holding requirements 
to reduce working capital to 
industry-leading levels.
09
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
We aim for ‘trusted partner’ status with our customers whereby we 
can engage with their product development cycles at an early stage, 
to provide solutions that meet their speciﬁc requirements for product 
performance and quality, greater efﬁciency and timely delivery.
Customer outcomes
 – Trusted supplier
 – Supplier who can ‘add value’ based on strong knowledge of business
 – Supplier aligned with customer’s own objectives
Volex outcomes
 – Long term partnership relationship
 – New business opportunities
Global Logistics & Delivery
Returns to Shareholders Our measurement of performance
Financial KPIs
FY2013 has been a challenging year for 
Volex. Tough trading conditions coupled 
with planned investment in production 
capacity has led to a deterioration in our 
results. However, we remain conﬁdent 
in the long term strategy of the Group 
as evidenced by our capital investment 
programme and are conﬁdent of a 
return to growth.
Non-ﬁnancial KPIs
Last year’s annual accounts stated that four new  
non-ﬁnancial KPIs would be developed, monitored  
and reported in FY2013. Due to the challenging trading 
environment, management’s attention has been  
focused on right-sizing the business and the  
development of these KPIs was suspended.  
We hope to resume work on these KPIs in FY2014  
and report accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue by sector $m
304.3
222.4
330.4
109.9
41.5
34.2
94.8
30.8
17.5
99.4
51.7
36.3
311.0
82.2
46.9
33.0
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
Consumer
Telecoms/Datacom
Healthcare
Industrial
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normalised gross proﬁt by sector $m
53.6
49.1
59.1
20.7
9.7
8.1
 14.0
6.6
4.0
21.0
14.2
8.2
45.9
19.5
12.8
7.1
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
Consumer
Telecoms/Datacom
Healthcare
Industrial
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group normalised gross margin %
18.8
20.2
19.8
18.0
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
10
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review  
 
 
 
 
 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) %
45.1
41.2
58.1
17.0
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normalised operating proﬁt $m
26.1
21.3
32.0
12.3
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net debt/(cash) $m
7.4
11.5
(3.6)
19.5
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) $m
5.8
16.1
18.3
(20.7)
FY11 FY10 FY12 FY13
11
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our performance this year was 
disappointing. Group revenues were 
down 9% to $473.2m from $517 .8m whilst 
normalised gross margin was 18.0%, 
1.8 percentage points lower than FY2012. 
A combination of factors including weaker 
markets, particularly in consumer 
electronics and the telecoms sectors, 
and delays in new customer programme 
launches contributed to the poor result.
Our markets 
We operate in four market sectors. 
Customers in our Consumer sector 
manufacture a wide range of electronic 
devices and electrical appliances, 
including PCs, laptops, TVs, games 
consoles and kitchen equipment. They 
increasingly choose high quality global 
suppliers who can help them satisfy the 
demand for increasingly sophisticated 
next-generation products.
Our Telecoms/Datacoms solutions address 
the need for increasing rates of high 
volume data transmission. Customers 
include manufacturers of equipment for 
telecoms networks, datacentres and high 
performance computing. With burgeoning 
demand for internet services accessible 
via mobile devices, increased data speeds 
are essential and these customers seek 
outstanding quality of manufacture 
coupled with high performance – at 
a competitive price. 
The Healthcare sector is characterised by 
extended product development cycles 
and long product lifetimes. Customers 
seek long term relationships with suppliers 
and include manufacturers of critical 
equipment including imaging, diagnostics 
and patient monitoring systems. Ageing 
populations and an increased emphasis 
on early diagnosis and monitoring are 
driving the market, along with a growing 
demand for sophisticated healthcare 
services from developing economies.
Our Industrial sector includes a range 
of segments including vehicle telematics, 
solar power installations and robotics 
for manufacturing. The constant push 
for greater productivity and increased 
efﬁciency is driving growth in both 
telematics and manufacturing automation. 
Our performance
Despite signiﬁcant revenue growth of 35% 
with our largest customer, total Consumer 
revenue was down 6% compared to last 
year as many of our customers suffered 
from the downturn in consumer electronic 
spend. The normalised gross margin was 
down by 3.2% to 14.7% largely as a result 
of a ramp up in manufacturing capability 
in the ﬁrst half of FY2013, for which the 
expected revenues did not materialise. 
These surplus costs were then removed 
during the second half of FY2013. 
In our Telecoms/Datacoms sector, lower 
spend from telecoms operators in 
response to ongoing economic uncertainty 
impacted revenue. We did however, 
experience good growth in datacoms, 
from high speed copper products and 
our new passive optical engagements. 
This mix change helped normalised gross 
margin in the Telecoms/Datacoms sector 
increase to 23.7%, from 21.2% in FY2012. 
Chief Executive’ s 
market and 
performance 
review
We have taken swift action 
to address the trading 
conditions we faced in 
FY2013 and to maximise 
Volex’ s longer term 
growth potential.
Ray Walsh
Group Chief Executive
FY2013 performance
Revenue Normalised Gross Margin
(i)
2013
$’000
2012
$’000 % Var
2013
%
2012
%Var
Consumer 311,026 330,372 (6) 14.7 17.9 -3.2 pts
Telecoms/Data 82,184 99,440 (17) 23.7 21.2 +2.5 pts
Healthcare 46,944 51,663 (9) 27.3 27.5 -0.2 pts
Industrial 33,000 36,294 (9) 21.5 22.6 -1.1 pts
Total 473,154 517,769 (9) 18.0 19.8 -1.8 pts
(i) Before non-recurring items and share-based payments expense
12
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review In our Healthcare sector, revenues were 
down 9% compared to last year. This was 
principally due to customer destocking 
programmes and delays in new product 
launches. However, normalised gross 
margin for the Healthcare sector remained 
stable. 
Industrial revenues decreased as our 
customers – particularly in transportation 
– reduced their capital expenditure. 
Normalised gross margin also slipped, 
due to the operating leverage effect of 
absorbing ﬁxed overheads over reduced 
revenues. Certain test and measurement 
programmes usually supplied by Volex 
also experienced delays during the year. 
Business improvement 
initiatives
We took swift action to address the trading 
conditions that we faced in FY2013 and to 
maximise Volex’s longer term growth 
potential. Our efforts so far have been 
focused on four principal areas:
1. Stringent cost control
During FY2013, we have conducted a 
signiﬁcant cost reduction programme 
to align our cost base with customer 
demand. We had a signiﬁcant increase in 
our headcount in anticipation of enhanced 
sales volumes. When these volumes did 
not materialise, we moved swiftly to initiate 
a programme that was group-wide and 
cross-function.
The restructuring was broken down 
into three key areas:
 – Direct/indirect labour – removal of the 
headcount that had been brought in 
to support the enhanced volumes 
that failed to materialise; 
 – Sales – an entire restructuring of the 
sales force was carried out to better 
align our sales support services with 
our key accounts and to identify new 
business opportunities; 
 – Back ofﬁce support – a full review 
of the back ofﬁce support functions 
was performed. Where roles were 
duplicated or could be ﬁlled through 
internal promotion at a reduced cost, 
the programme sought to eliminate 
the excess expenditure.
As a result, Group-wide stafﬁng levels 
have dropped from their peak in H1 of 
9,750 to 7 ,300 by year end.
The cost of the programme totalled 
$7 .2m in FY2013, principally in relation to 
employee severance costs, associated 
consultancy costs and asset write downs. 
The cash cost in FY2013 of the programme 
was $5.7m. The estimated annual savings 
from the programme total approximately 
$17 .5m when compared to our ﬁrst half peak, 
primarily arising from the headcount savings.
13
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chief Executive’ s  
market and  
performance review 
continued
2. Improving operational efﬁciency 
across the organisation
Through the introduction of a number of 
operational initiatives in the second half 
of the year, we have made signiﬁcant 
progress in improving our operational 
efﬁciency. These initiatives include: 
 – New production processes such as 
3P (Production, Preparation, Process) 
and the Volex Production System;
 – Ongoing LEAN manufacturing 
technique application;
 – Upgrades to our primary 
manufacturing site in Shenzhen; and
 – Roll-out of new precision moulding 
and tooling equipment.
As a result of these actions, scrap rates 
have reduced by 42% from 3.6% during 
the ﬁrst half of FY2013 to 2.1% by year end. 
Similarly labour initiatives have helped 
offset minimum wage inﬂationary pressure 
in our manufacturing territories.
During FY2013 we completed an extensive 
upgrade of our Shenzhen manufacturing 
plant in China at a cost of $12.8m. 
Approximately $10m of this spend was on 
new equipment. This investment provides 
18,000 sqm of upgraded manufacturing 
space and 12,000 sqm of warehousing. 
We have also expanded our plant at 
Batam, Indonesia, at a cost of $6m, 
creating an improved manufacturing 
facility to enhance our global 
manufacturing capability and better 
serve our worldwide customer base. 
Construction at Batam is due to complete 
in July 2013 with a further $1.8m of 
construction costs forecast to be incurred. 
Production at this expanded site 
commenced in April 2013.
During FY2013, we made good progress in 
rightsizing our business with customer 
demand, making signiﬁcant operating cost 
reductions. In FY2014, we will consider our 
manufacturing and distribution footprint 
to ensure that they are even closer aligned 
with our customer needs.
3. Strengthening senior sales leadership 
and improving the effectiveness of the 
sales organisation
To provide the cabling and interconnect 
solutions our customers require, we need 
to better understand the problems they 
face. To this end we are working hard to 
forge deep customer relationships so that 
we may align ourselves more closely with 
our key customers; engaging with them 
earlier in their product development 
lifecycles and acquiring a deeper 
knowledge of their businesses, ensuring 
that we are designed-in to long term 
product cycles. 
During the year, Roger Wendelken was 
appointed Senior Vice President, Sales 
& Marketing. Roger has overseen a 
restructuring of the sales function with 
a move towards a key account structure. 
This has been supplemented by enhanced 
integration of our sales and engineering 
teams to create a New Business 
Development function. 
Furthermore, Karen Slatford has assumed 
the role of Deputy Chairman. Karen has 
supported Roger in his new role and has 
provided valuable guidance in developing 
the new sales structure.
We believe this structure will make 
Volex more agile and responsive to our 
customers’ needs and will improve our 
forecasting ability. Already we have 
seen success through this new structure 
with new business wins in the 
Healthcare sector.
14
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review 4. Accelerating the Group’s move to a 
higher margin product portfolio.
To strengthen our market position, and 
become a key partner to our customers, 
we need to provide cabling and 
interconnect solutions that meet their 
evolving needs at competitive prices. 
Over the past 18 months we have 
invested signiﬁcantly in our engineering 
and development teams, with a number 
of new products brought to market 
including high speed copper and passive 
optical products.
During FY2013, the acquisition of an active 
optical cable (‘AOC’) technology platform 
from Applied Micro was a signiﬁcant step 
forwards in this development of a unique, 
higher margin product portfolio for Volex. 
The acquisition included joint ownership 
of a robust patent portfolio plus other 
assets for a combined fee of $1.8m. 
AOC technology is the next step for our 
high speed interconnect product portfolio. 
As our customers migrate from copper to 
optical ﬁbre technology, the integration of 
this technology into our products, will give 
us a signiﬁcant competitive advantage. 
Our people 
This year we continued to embed 
‘One Volex’ – our programme of cultural 
transformation – throughout the 
organisation. The programme aims 
to unify and strengthen our teams, 
refocusing our people on the key issues 
and behaviours that inﬂuence our 
productivity, performance and efﬁciency. 
In addition to strengthening the sales team 
mentioned above, we made several other 
key appointments this year. 
David McKinney was appointed to the 
newly-created role of Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer in May 2012. During the year he 
introduced some key initiatives to improve 
Consumer gross margin including creating 
a New Product Introduction process and 
establishing focused quality and 
engineering teams. 
Daniel Abrams, who joined as Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer in December, has led the 
reorganisation of the ﬁnance function and 
completed the restructuring programme, 
incorporating the necessary cost 
containment initiatives. 
Outlook
Our refocused sales organisation will 
provide a ﬁrm foundation from which 
we can deliver sustainable and 
proﬁtable growth. 
Our cost structure is more closely aligned 
to current trading levels. It is also ﬂexible 
and scalable, allowing us to increase 
output and capitalise on opportunities 
when market conditions improve. 
Our newly-formed technology team, 
based in Santa Clara, has enjoyed success 
on a series of product development 
initiatives. Our acquisition of the active 
optical technology platform is an indicator 
of the strong ‘technology’ focus that Volex 
is adopting. 
Whilst there is still much to do, we believe 
that we have made signiﬁcant progress 
in each of the initiatives above. Through a 
continued focus on these, we believe that 
Volex will return to growth and will restore 
shareholder value.
Ray Walsh
Group Chief Executive
15
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013  Operating review
Business focus
Our Consumer Products customers 
comprise well-known brand names in 
the consumer electronics sector. They 
principally include manufacturers of 
computers and printers, TVs, games 
consoles and laptops as well as makers 
of domestic appliances such as fridges, 
freezers, ﬂoor care products, power tools 
and gardening equipment. 
Market
The operating environment this year 
was extremely tough, particularly in 
the consumer electronics ﬁeld, which 
continued to contract due to weak 
end-user demand experienced by our 
customers. According to Gartner, PC 
shipments worldwide in 2012 were down 
by 3.5% and competition became more 
intense in a shrinking market. The 
traditional desktop and laptop computing 
markets is, however, forecast to return 
to growth and provide high single digit 
growth percentages out to 2016. 
Long term, consumer sentiment is shifting 
away from PCs towards the adoption of 
mobile devices such as tablets and 
smartphones, the power requirements for 
which are signiﬁcantly smaller. Forecast 
growth between 2012 and 2016 for tablets 
and smartphones is 15%. Although we 
currently have a smaller presence in the 
mobile device arena, this smaller form 
factor market represents a signiﬁcant 
opportunity for Volex.
Performance
Consumer sector revenues for FY2013 
were $311.0m, down 6.0% on last year. 
Whilst revenue as a whole decreased 
year-on-year, sales to the Group’s largest 
customer increased by 35%, with the 
Group enjoying increased allocations. 
Business away from our largest customer 
has proved to be challenging. As a result 
of weak demand for Consumer electronics 
products – from individuals and corporate 
customers – we experienced lower 
year-on-year demand for our power 
solutions from most other customers in the 
sector. This macroeconomic adversity also 
resulted in increased price competition, 
which held back sales revenue growth and 
impacted our ability to win new business. 
The Consumer normalised gross margin 
declined to 14.7% from 17 .9% in FY2012. The 
primary cause of this was a $5.7million 
investment in production capacity in H1, 
including the recruitment and training of 
more than 1,000 new production 
employees together with additional tooling 
and site expansion costs. This level of 
spend was in anticipation of certain 
Consumer
Despite tough trading conditions, 
Volex increased its sales with the 
Consumer sector’s largest 
customer by 35% in FY2013.
16
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review forecast revenue levels from our largest 
customer. Whilst the 35% increase in 
sales noted was encouraging and 
demonstrated the demand for our 
power offerings, it fell below that originally 
forecast. As a consequence we spent 
much of the second half of the year 
removing this extra cost as part of the 
restructuring programme. The normalised 
gross margin was also impacted by 
temporary production inefﬁciencies arising 
on certain new products (including scrap 
rates above the historic average and 
labour productivity rates below the historic 
average). However, a number of new 
initiatives were enacted in the second 
half of FY2013 and these have successfully 
reduced scrap rates and improved 
productivity rates. 
These two issues, combined with the 
operating leverage effect of decreasing sales 
and heightened price pressure, resulted 
in the normalised gross margin decline.
These two issues, combined with the 
operating leverage effect of decreasing 
sales and heightened price pressure, 
resulted in the normalised gross 
margin decline. 
Capital expenditure
Signiﬁcant investments were made to 
our production facilities during the year, 
and we implemented several essential 
upgrades to equipment and capacity at 
our largest Chinese facility in Shenzhen. 
We established local production in Brazil in 
response to our largest customer’s request 
for in-country manufacturing. 
We are investing in internal cable 
capabilities with several key accounts and 
successful penetration of this market will 
enable us to diversify with our largest 
customer. It will allow us to pursue new 
business in this ﬁeld to grow revenue.
These investments demonstrate our 
ongoing commitment to our key customers 
through creation of an environment that 
supports their long term requirements. 
The expertise acquired through these 
enhanced facilities and technologies 
will help us access other customers 
with similar design requirements.
Looking ahead
Trading in the Consumer sector will 
continue to be competitive in FY2014 as 
customer demand continues to reﬂect 
broader economic conditions. 
However, the newer generations of mobile 
devices such as smartphones and tablets 
represent a considerable opportunity for 
Volex, which we plan to pursue with vigour. 
USB duck head adapters are becoming 
increasingly widely used, as consumers 
migrate towards smaller devices that 
require USB power delivery systems. 
To date we have not had a signiﬁcant 
presence in the USB transformer space, 
but recognise that this ﬁeld represents a 
promising area of opportunity for Volex, 
which we plan to develop.
Our design capabilities, global footprint, 
strong brand and reputation for quality 
all ensure we have a strong competitive 
edge going forward. 
$19 .3m
investment in Consumer 
manufacturing facilities
17
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operating review 
continued 
Telecoms/ 
Datacoms
Acquisition of Active Optical Cable 
technology in FY2013 for $1.8m 
represents Volex’s ﬁrst entry into 
the strongly growing high speed 
optical interconnect market.
18
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Business focus
Volex provides customised interconnect 
solutions for global equipment 
manufacturers in the telecoms and 
datacoms sectors. Our solutions are used 
in mobile telecoms networks – both at 
the cell site and for the core network, ﬁxed 
line telecoms and in high performance 
computing and datacentre environments.
Market
Key market drivers for the telecoms 
industry continue to be the increases 
in subscriber numbers and data trafﬁc 
alongside a corresponding decrease in 
voice trafﬁc. Speed and miniaturisation 
are high priorities and there is a growing 
demand from telecoms providers for ﬁbre 
optics to boost transmission speeds and 
reduce bottlenecks. 
The telecoms market was weaker 
throughout FY2013, with customers 
reducing spend in the prevailing 
macroeconomic environment. 
The rapid expansion of cloud computing 
and the increasing requirement for the 
capture, storage and transfer of ‘big data’ 
are two of the principal drivers behind 
the growth of datacentres. Increasing 
volumes of internet trafﬁc and the universal 
demand for high speed connections from 
consumers and businesses alike are also 
continuing to drive high performance 
datacentre requirements.
23. 7%
normalised gross margin  
up 2.5% on FY2012  19
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Performance
FY2013 revenue of $82.2m was down 
17% on FY2012 (FY2012: $99.4m). This 
was principally due to lower spend from 
telecoms operators, in all markets other 
than North America, in response to ongoing 
economic uncertainty. The North American 
market in contrast showed growth of 16%, 
driven primarily by mobile broadband 
investment by the telecoms operators. 
During the year, we successfully 
negotiated the engagement and pre-
qualiﬁcation process with several key 
customers that offer signiﬁcant growth 
potential for the future.
This continued lack of investment in 
telecoms network infrastructure 
overshadowed encouraging performance 
by Volex in the datacoms side of the sector, 
with good growth experienced in high 
speed copper products and our new 
passive optical opportunities. 
Normalised gross margin in the sector 
increased by 2.5 percentage points to 
23.7% (FY2012: 21.2%), as a result of this 
change in mix in favour of these higher 
margin high speed copper and passive 
optical products. 
Optical interconnect technology
Our datacentre and telecoms customers 
have been seeking cost effective high 
speed optical solutions to replace legacy 
copper interconnects. 
In December we acquired the active optical 
technology platform of Applied Micro 
Circuits Corporation for $1.8m. The 
acquisition of a robust patent portfolio, 
technology, laboratory equipment and 
product designs supports our entry into 
the emerging, strongly growing optical 
interconnect market for high speed data 
applications in datacentres and telecoms. 
We have since made a number of 
investments strengthening the sales, 
infrastructure and engineering resources 
for this important part of Volex.
We now have a unique platform to develop 
and deliver reliable, low power competitive 
active optical solutions, including active 
optical cables and transceivers. 
Looking ahead
Optical interconnect technology represents 
a signiﬁcant growth area for Volex. 
Under the ‘Volex Optical’ banner, we 
are developing next-generation solutions 
for customers in the high performance 
computing segment and hope to develop 
further applications for use in our consumer, 
healthcare and industrial markets. 
Whilst the integration and development 
of AOC technology into our product range 
is the sector’s key focus in FY2014, with 
forecast delivery of samples to customers 
due from June 2013, we are also cautiously 
optimistic that the telecoms market will 
show signs of recovery. Operating review 
continued
Healthcare
27.3% normalised gross margin 
supports the Healthcare sector’s 
key design partner strategy.
20
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Business focus
Volex supplies complex cable assembly 
and connector solutions for medical 
equipment, with a particular focus on 
imaging technologies. We also supply 
cabling solutions for patient monitoring 
systems, clinical diagnostics equipment 
and patient therapy systems. With a 
proven track record and a committed, 
collaborative approach, we provide our 
customers with international coverage, a 
wide range of solutions and outstanding 
product and engineering support.
Market
Healthcare is considered to be more 
stable than other high technology sectors 
and is characterised by long product 
development and lifecycles. Relationships 
between equipment manufacturers and 
their suppliers also tend to be long term. 
The ageing global population and the 
increase in chronic ‘lifestyle’ diseases are 
two of the principal drivers in this market. 
There is increasing demand for early 
diagnosis, comprehensive patient 
monitoring and high quality treatment. 
Use of disposable products to prevent 
the spread of infection has also increased 
and there has been a move towards 
minimally invasive procedures. Cost 
containment is also a key driver.
Notwithstanding the growth opportunities 
in the industry, the sector was not immune 
to general macroeconomic pressures. 
The market in FY2013 was challenging with 
intense competition and pricing pressures. 
In addition, there was a marked focus on 
cutting inventories across Volex’s customer 
base as healthcare equipment 
manufacturers attempted to reduce 
working capital. 
Performance
Healthcare revenues in FY2013 of $46.9m 
were down 9% compared to last year 
due to customer destocking programmes 
and delays in new product launches 
arising from longer than anticipated 
qualiﬁcation lead-times on new projects. 
Revenues were also affected by lower than 
expected demand for imaging accessories 
from a major customer, a softer market 
in nuclear medicine systems and 
increasing competition in the magnetic 
resonance and X-ray businesses from 
competitors’ products manufactured in 
low cost locations.  21
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Design wins on new X-ray and infant 
care products, however, helped offset 
this revenue pressure. Further, we 
experienced early design-in success and 
stable demand from a major imaging 
systems provider in Europe. Additional 
business was also won with several 
customers offering the potential for 
considerable revenue growth in the 
next three to ﬁve years. 
We also successfully supported the 
transfer of customer programmes from 
developed to emerging markets and 
focused our business development 
activity on new divisions or acquisitions 
within our existing customer base. 
Away from our traditional customer 
base, we secured a number of 
prestigious customers for cabling 
solutions in new healthcare niches, 
including next-generation robotic 
surgery. This enhances our presence 
in this ﬁeld and supports our efforts to 
engage and secure additional surgical 
systems customers. 
Despite the decline in revenues, 
normalised gross margins for the 
healthcare sector remained stable at 
27 .3%, compared with 27 .5% last year. 
This is a reﬂection of our interdependent 
customer relationships, where we are 
seen as a key design partner. Further 
by working with our customers on 
mutually beneﬁcial cost reduction 
programmes, we have been able to 
reduce our selling prices whilst not 
adversely impacting margin.
During the year, we underwent and 
passed several new customer audits 
and retained our strategic supplier status 
with our largest healthcare customer. 
Capital expenditure
Volex invested to facilitate expansion 
into new healthcare segments with both 
new and existing customers. We are 
establishing a new silicone moulding 
process capability at our Tijuana plant, 
which will enable us to offer sophisticated 
products to potential customers in patient 
monitoring, cardiac care and pain therapy. 
We are also investing in multi-mode ﬁbre 
optic cables assemblies (MTO/MTP) which 
will support further penetration into the 
surgical systems market. Our recent 
acquisition of active optical technology 
platform complements this drive. 
Looking ahead
There are clear long term structural growth 
drivers for this market, such as the ageing 
global population and the increase in 
chronic ‘lifestyle’ diseases. In the short 
term, the year ahead will be challenging 
as competition in the healthcare sector 
across all regions continues to intensify. 
However, our recent design wins and 
successful product qualiﬁcation with new 
customers have given us a ﬁrm foundation 
for future growth. We have a healthy 
pipeline of new business, most of 
which is for non-imaging systems and 
approximately half of which is from 
new customers. 
37%
increase in Volex India’s healthcare sales 
reﬂecting growth in emerging markets Operating review 
continued 
 
Business focus
The industrial sector comprises a diverse 
set of markets with good growth potential 
for Volex. These include test and measurement 
equipment, manufacturing automation, 
trucking telematics, agricultural machinery 
and renewable energy.
Market
A key driver in this market is the growing 
prevalence of sensors across the industrial 
sector. The growing ﬁeld of data analytics 
requires high speed interconnects capable 
of handling today’s data transmissions. 
Customers are also moving to greater 
automation in their manufacturing operations, 
with the increasing use of robotics on 
assembly lines and testing equipment 
across multiple industrial processes. 
Additional growth opportunities in this 
market lie in the renewable energy sector, 
where customers require cabling and 
harnesses for wind and solar power 
generation. There is also an increasing 
need for durable, ‘ruggedised’ products 
to withstand harsh environment conditions. 
However, the prevailing macroeconomic 
situation has slowed the rate at which 
customers are investing in new product 
development. 
Performance
Industrial sector revenue in FY2013 
amounted to $33.0m (FY2012: $36.3m), 
a decrease of 9% compared to FY2012. 
In a challenging macroeconomic 
environment, sales were adversely 
affected by a reduction in our customers’ 
capital expenditure programmes, and 
particularly impacted by reduced 
transportation industry spend on new 
commercial freight vehicles. Test and 
measurement programmes usually 
supplied by Volex also experienced 
delays throughout the year.
Industrial
A tough trading year saw the 
Industrial sector revenues decline by 
9% with the resultant leverage effect 
adversely impacting gross margin.
22
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Despite the difﬁcult trading conditions, 
we secured additional business this year 
with new designs for existing major 
customers. We developed a standard 
solution for light-truck local applications 
for our largest customer, creating custom 
derivatives for high volume trafﬁc. We also 
developed a complex hybrid assembly for 
surface mount technology applications.
During the year we worked closely with 
an innovative British company specialising 
in solutions using alternative hydrogen 
fuel cells. Our unique AC/DC adapter 
design delivers off-grid power from 
the customer’s PEM fuel cell to users 
of handheld devices. This represents a 
growth opportunity for Volex in a new ﬁeld 
with promising revenue stream potential. 
We worked closely with this customer from 
the earliest stages of the design process 
to ensure alignment of all electrical, 
mechanical and cosmetic aspects of 
the design with the customer’s product.
Industrial normalised gross margin 
declined by 1.1 percentage points to 
21.5% (FY2012: 22.6%) due to the operating 
leverage effect of absorbing ﬁxed 
overheads over a reduced revenue base. 
Capital expenditure
We took steps this year to expand our 
geographic reach beyond our historic 
market of North America. We relocated 
our Brazilian facility and increased our 
capabilities and production capacity 
which we believe will give us better access 
to the South American market. Similarly 
the expansion of our facilities at Batam 
in Indonesia will help to enable us to 
pursue new business opportunities in 
South East Asia. 
Looking ahead
The acquisition of the AOC optical 
technology platform and the development 
of the USB3.0 and HDMI derivatives 
provides us with signiﬁcant opportunities 
in FY2014. For example, the use of USB3.0 
optical solutions in machine vision 
increases performance and reduces 
the overall weight of the solution, which 
in turn reduces power consumption and 
operating expenditure. Use of an HDMI 
interface in digital signage enables more 
ﬂexible placement, reduced equipment 
costs and higher deﬁnition solutions. 
in our robotics/automation accounts
14% growth
23
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operating review 
continued 
Manufacturing operations 
David McKinney took up the new executive 
position of Chief Operating Ofﬁcer in 
May 2012 and developed his team over 
the year. Investment was made in the 
Engineering function in order to improve 
Volex’s product and process design 
capability. Further, a value-stream 
based approach was adopted in 
Shenzhen to ensure better alignment 
with – and accountability for – satisfying 
customer needs.
During FY2013, an extensive upgrade 
of the Shenzhen manufacturing plant in 
China was completed at a cost of $12.8m. 
Approximately $10m of this spend was on 
new equipment. This investment provides 
18,000 sqm of upgraded manufacturing 
space and 12,000 sqm of warehousing. 
Our plant at Batam, Indonesia was also 
expanded at a cost of $6m, creating an 
improved manufacturing facility to 
enhance our global manufacturing 
capability and better serve our worldwide 
customer base. Construction at Batam is 
due to complete in July 2013 with a further 
$1.8m of construction costs forecast to be 
incurred. Production at this site expanded 
site commenced in April 2014.
During the year, production inefﬁciencies 
arose on the introduction of certain new 
products. This saw scrap rates rise to 3.6% 
(as a percentage of material cost) during 
the ﬁrst half of FY2013. However, through 
the continued implementation of LEAN 
manufacturing techniques and the 
introduction of the Volex Production System 
at Shenzhen, this was reduced by 42% 
to 2.1% by year end. 
Improved labour efﬁciency through the 
year has helped offset minimum wage 
inﬂationary pressure in our manufacturing 
territories with labour cost as a percentage 
of sales being held below 8%, excluding 
the ramp up impact.
The introduction of the 3P (Production, 
Preparation, Process) initiative shortened 
the new product introduction process at 
Tijuana, where we also achieved ISO13845 
quality certiﬁcation. 
In addition to the initiatives described 
above, low cost automation in Zhongshan 
has also been introduced and a more 
ﬂexible workforce has been created across 
several of our facilities. 
Supply chain 
During the year we worked to identify 
alternative sources in Asia with the aim 
of keeping our costs down and reducing 
lead-times. We exceeded our purchase 
price variance goal, generating 2.3% of 
cost savings and succeeded in reducing 
our tool fabrication lead-times from 
between six and eight weeks to 
four weeks. 
Inventory increased this year, principally 
in our Consumer business as a result 
of the halogen-free introduction 
programmes. Non-consumer inventory 
remained relatively ﬂat, reducing towards 
the end of the year. Overall, our raw 
material lead-time reduced by 30 days 
through a combination of local/regional 
sourcing and vendor managed inventory. 
Looking ahead
In FY2014 we will broaden our product 
design capability and make the best use 
of our manufacturing footprint and people. 
We will maintain our focus on quality 
improvement and cost containment. 
The investment during FY2013 in our 
global manufacturing base leaves us 
well positioned to serve our customers 
going forward and gives us a competitive 
advantage as we seek new business 
in an increasingly challenging market.
M a n u f a c t u r i n g  
operations 
and supply 
chain
Signiﬁcant investment in 
manufacturing facilities 
leaves us well positioned 
to serve our customers 
in FY2014 and beyond.
24
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review This year our technology team worked on 
a series of product development initiatives 
including active optical technology, rapid 
prototyping and alternative power 
supplies. Based in Santa Clara, California, 
this group is focused on innovation, design 
and technology improvements. The team 
works closely with our customers and 
sales teams, devising solutions to 
current challenges and developing 
and commercialising future products. 
We collaborated with iWatt – a leading 
power interconnect company – to develop 
an innovative new power supply, 
producing 20 prototypes with the smallest 
footprint of a <85W supply on the market. 
The collaboration enabled us to gain 
valuable insight into the exact speciﬁcations 
customers are demanding in power solutions. 
The acquisition of the active optical cable 
platform from Applied Micro ﬁlled a gap in 
our product offering and provided us with 
29 optical interconnect issued and pending 
patents. Active optical technology is the 
next step in the high speed interconnect 
ﬁeld, and presents Volex with a large 
addressable market as the industry 
continues the migration from copper 
to optical ﬁbre technology. 
For FY2014, we are focused on successfully 
launching out AOC product offering 
with our ﬁrst customers having already 
received initial product samples. 
Going forward, we are excited about the 
opportunities to leverage this technology 
platform in multiple form functions across 
industry sectors.
The transaction with Applied Micro 
created a natural platform for the ongoing 
collaboration between our companies. 
Since the transaction closed, we have 
collaborated with Applied Micro on several 
projects to advance our AOC products 
and marketing opportunities, leveraging 
their knowledge of networking and 
datacentre customers. This was our ﬁrst 
technology acquisition and we intend to 
pursue similar promising opportunities 
as they arise in future.
We showcased our products and 
expertise at a number of high proﬁle 
global technology events during the year. 
We also continued to play an active role 
on key standards committees and industry 
associations including the Video Electronics 
Standards Association (VESA) and the 
Ethernet Alliance. 
Looking ahead
The coming year will see us accelerate our 
prototyping capabilities and develop our 
expertise in PCB layout and design for power 
supplies. With a one-stop shop for design, 
prototyping and manufacturing, we are 
able to produce designs that add genuine 
value for our customers; helping them 
access markets and drive revenues faster. 
The future will see us actively develop our 
expertise and capabilities in new areas. 
For example, MTO/MTP multi-mode ﬁbre 
products target datacentre build-outs and 
can be sold with Volex’s other high speed 
cable offering. We are also actively 
exploring strategic partnership possibilities 
for entry into the USB and power adapter 
market, which focuses on the high value 
combination of higher wattage and 
smaller size. Our AOC technology has 
promising potential for use in markets 
including digital signage and storage and 
we are actively pursuing new applications 
for these products. 
Over the next 12 to 18 months we will 
expand our industrial design capabilities 
to enable us to handle more projects. 
Tec hn olo g y
Acquisition of AOC 
technology is a signiﬁcant 
step forwards in the 
development of a high 
margin product portfolio.
25
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 H2 FY13
H1 FY13
H2 FY12
H1 FY12
H2 FY11
H1 FY11
Group half-yearly revenue by sector $m
Telecoms/Datacoms
Consumer Healthcare
Industrial
0 60 120 180 240 300
238.4
251.7
270.7
247.1
249.3
223.9
Consumer half-yearly revenue by region $m
Americas
Asia Europe
India
0 50 100 150 200
151.2
153.2
169.9
160.5
164.7
146.4 H2 FY13
H1 FY13
H2 FY12
H1 FY12
H2 FY11
H1 FY11
26
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Performance indicators Swift action taken in 
response to challenging 
market conditions
The current year trading performance 
has been disappointing with revenues 
down across all four sectors. The global 
macroeconomic conditions have been 
challenging with the majority of our 
customers experiencing a downturn 
in revenues and this, coupled with our 
operational investment in increased 
production capacity, has resulted in 
reduced margins. We have acted swiftly 
to align our cost base with the observed 
revenues leading to a Group-wide and 
across function restructuring programme. 
Measuring ﬁnancial 
performance
The Group continues to use a number 
of speciﬁc measures to assess its 
performance and these are referred to 
throughout this Annual Report in the 
discussion of the performance of the 
business. These measures are not deﬁned 
in IFRS, but are used by the Board to assess 
the underlying operational performance 
of the Group, as such the Board believes 
these performance measures are 
important and should be considered 
alongside the IFRS measures. These 
measures include:
Measure Deﬁnition
Normalised 
proﬁt
Proﬁt before non-recurring 
items and share-based 
payment expenses
Normalised 
EPS
Earnings per share adjusted 
for the impacts of non-
recurring items and 
share-based payments
Daniel Abrams 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Financial review
Investment for the 
future despite current 
disappointments. H2 FY13
H1 FY13
H2 FY12
H1 FY12
H2 FY11
H1 FY11
Telecoms/Datacoms half-yearly 
revenue by region $m
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
52.5
57.4
56.2
43.2
45.2
37.0
Americas
Asia Europe
India
18.7
22.9
24.2
27.5
22.0
24.9
Healthcare half-yearly revenue by region $m
Americas
Asia Europe
India
010 20 30
H2 FY13
H1 FY13
H2 FY12
H1 FY12
H2 FY11
H1 FY11
16.0
18.2
20.3
16.0
17.4
15.6
Industrial half-yearly revenue by region $m
Americas
Asia Europe
India
05 15 10 20
H2 FY13
H1 FY13
H2 FY12
H1 FY12
H2 FY11
H1 FY11
27
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Trading performance
Financial performance by sector
Consumer
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
2013  
$’000
Revenue 304,336  330,372  311,026
Normalised gross proﬁt 53,609  59,113  44,715
Normalised gross margin 17.6% 17.9% 14.4%
Telecoms/Datacoms
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
2013  
$’000
Revenue 109,948  99,440  82,184
Normalised gross proﬁt 20,653 21,034  19,504
Normalised gross margin 18.8% 21.2% 23.7%
Healthcare
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
2013  
$’000
Revenue 41,536  51,663  46,944
Normalised gross proﬁt 9,735  14,186  12,811
Normalised gross margin 23.4% 27.5% 27.3%
Industrial
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
2013  
$’000
Revenue 34,189  36,294  33,000
Normalised gross proﬁt 8,072  8,186  7,087
Normalised gross margin 23.6% 22.6% 21.5%
Performance indicators
Group revenue for the year decreased 
by 9%, from $517 .8m in FY2012 to $473.2m 
in FY2013. All four sectors suffered from 
reduced revenues in the year with the 
consumer and telecoms/datacoms 
sector most impacted. 
The Group’s normalised gross proﬁt for 
FY2013 was $85.3m, yielding a normalised 
gross margin of 18.0%. This compared to a 
FY2012 normalised gross proﬁt of $102.5m 
and a normalised gross margin of 19.8%. 
The primary cause of this reduced gross 
margin was the ramp up in direct and 
indirect manufacturing headcount in the 
ﬁrst half of FY2013 in advance of forecast 
volume increases. When these volumes 
did not materialise, a restructuring 
programme was enacted which removed 
the surplus heads. Further operating 
leverage (the impact of absorbing ﬁxed 
production costs over the reduced revenue 
base) had an adverse impact.
The Consumer sector saw revenue decline 
by 6% from $330.4m in FY2012 to $311.0m 
in FY2013. This movement was the net of 
a 35% increase in revenue to our largest 
customer offset by a 23% decline in the 
remainder of our Consumer customer 
base. The 23% decline was primarily 
due to the well documented 
macroeconomic environment on the 
consumer electronics industry.
Signiﬁcant investment was made in 
training additional manufacturing and 
operational support headcount to meet 
an increased volume forecast. Whilst 
additional volumes did materialise, it was 
not to the extent forecast and it was not 
capable of supporting the enhanced 
headcount. As a result, we reduced 
Group-wide stafﬁng levels from their peak 
in H1 FY2013 of 9,750 to 7 ,300 by year end.
The Consumer normalised gross margin 
has, as a result of the above, decreased 
from 17 .9% in FY2012 to 14.7% in FY2013. 
Telecoms/Datacoms revenue was down 
17% from $99.4m in FY2012 to $82.2m in 
FY2013. The reason for this reduction is 
largely due to the reduced global spend 
by the Telecoms operators as the 
continuing economic uncertainty restricts 
their appetite for investment projects. 
Encouragingly, the normalised gross 
margin increased from 21.2% in FY2012 
to 23.7% in FY2013 as a result of an 
improvement in sales mix with the 
change favouring higher margin high 
speed copper and passive optical 
interconnect products.
The Healthcare revenue was down 9% 
from $51.7m in FY2012 to $46.9m in FY2013 
due to reduced demand in the nuclear 
medicine imaging ﬁeld and delayed orders 
from the sector’s largest customer as they 
postponed their rollout of new imaging 
systems. The normalised gross margin 
remained strong at 27 .3%, supporting the 
strategy of extensive customer engagement 
and increasing Volex design content.
The Industrial sector revenue was also 
down 9% from $36.3m in FY2012 to $33.0m 
in FY2013, in part due to reduced spend in 
the transportation industry on new ﬂeet 
vehicles. The normalised gross margin 
was 21.5%, down 1.1% on prior year due 
to the operating leverage effect.  28
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Normalised group operating costs 
excluding share-based payment expenses 
have increased by $2.4m from $70.5m to 
$72.9m. This increase reﬂected the further 
investment made in people in the ﬁrst half 
of FY2013 in anticipation of the increased 
volumes, the strengthening of the key 
management team at Volex and 
professional fees. 
Non-recurring items and 
share-based payments
Once it became apparent that the forecast 
FY2013 increased volumes were not going 
to materialise, management moved swiftly 
and decisively to initiate a restructuring 
programme. This programme went 
beyond removing just surplus operational 
headcount but was a Group-wide, 
across-function programme that sought 
to align the headcount and cost base 
with the reduced revenue and proﬁt 
expectations. The restructuring was 
broken down into three key areas:
 – Operational – removal of headcount 
that had been brought in to support 
the manufacturing of the enhanced 
volumes. 
 – Sales – an entire restructuring of the 
sales force was carried out to better 
align our sales support services with 
our key accounts. 
 – Back ofﬁce support – a full review 
of the back ofﬁce support functions 
was performed. Where roles were 
duplicated or could be ﬁlled through 
internal promotion at a reduced cost, 
the programme sought to eliminate 
the excess expenditure.
The programme removed approximately 
300 staff directly from the organisation. 
The cost of the programme totalled $7 .2m 
in FY2013, principally in relation to 
employee severance costs, associated 
consultancy costs and associated asset 
write downs. The estimated annual 
savings from the programme total 
approximately $17 .5m.
In the prior year, the Consumer sector 
incurred exceptional start-up costs of 
$5.0m in relation to new product 
introductions, speciﬁcally, the migration 
from PVC to halogen-free power cords, 
coupled with a requirement for signiﬁcantly 
higher technical and cosmetic standards. 
As a result, these new products 
necessitated wide ranging improvements 
to our manufacturing processes and 
investments in higher grade tooling and 
precision moulding technologies. Whilst 
these changes were being introduced, 
there was a signiﬁcant temporary increase 
in scrap rates and labour inefﬁciency. 
Performance indicators
Financial review 
continued
Group normalised gross margin by year %
0 510 15 20 25
FY11
FY12
FY13
18.8
19.8
18.0
In FY2013, a further $1.2m of scrap costs 
was incurred in relation to these products 
before the manufacturing issues were 
ﬁnally resolved. 
During FY2013 Volex has negotiated the 
exit from a vacant property lease. This 
has resulted in a $0.4m release from 
the onerous lease provision. 
The share-based payments charge of 
$0.2m in FY2013 has reduced by $3.8m 
from $4.0m in FY2012. This reduction is 
primarily due to the reversal of charge 
previously taken on options that have 
lapsed during FY2013 as a result of 
option holders leaving the Group. Options 
granted in FY2013 generated a share 
option charge of $0.1m.
Acquired technology, research 
and development
In FY2013, Volex acquired a joint interest 
in 29 issued and pending patents for AOC 
technology from Applied Micro Circuits 
Corporation (‘APM’) for $1.5m. A further 
$0.3m was also spent on acquiring 
associated lab equipment and plant 
and machinery.
The Group plans to integrate the AOC 
technology, which allows for high speed 
data applications, into its standard cable 
offering, ﬁrst in the Telecoms/Datacoms 
sector but then afterwards expanding 
the application into Healthcare and 
Industrial offerings. 
Subsequent to the acquisition, the Group 
has incurred $0.2m of development costs 
in integrating the acquired technology with 
the Group’s existing product range. Having 
met the conditions of IAS 38 ‘Intangible 
assets’ these costs have been capitalised. 
Commercial production of AOC products 
is forecast to begin in FY2014 at which point 
the capitalised development costs will be 
amortised over the remaining period of 
patent exclusivity.
Finance costs
Total net ﬁnance costs in FY2013 reduced 
by 41% to $2.3m (FY2012: $3.8m). The 
principal reasons for this decrease 
were the write-off in FY2012 of $0.8m of 
capitalised debt issue costs associated 
with the former ﬁnancing facility and a 
FY2012 $0.8m charge associated with 
copper commodity contracts which 
failed to meet the hedging requirements 
of IAS 39.  29
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Tax
The Group incurred a tax charge of $2.8m 
(FY2012: $2.0m) representing an effective 
tax rate (ETR) of 146% (FY2012: 11%). The 
normalised tax charge of $3.6m 
(FY2012: $3.4m) represents an ETR of 36% 
(FY2012: 12%). The principal reason for this 
increase in normalised ETR was due to 
losses arising in territories where deferred 
tax is not fully recognised. This issue 
was compounded by the restructuring 
costs principally arising in these same 
territories resulting in a signiﬁcantly worse 
reported ETR.
Included within the normalised tax charge 
of $3.6m is a tax charge in relation to 
prior periods of $0.5m. If this was to be 
removed, the normalised tax charge 
would fall to $3. 1m, representing an ETR of 3 1%.
With the cost base of the Group reduced 
through the cost restructuring programme 
and aligned with future proﬁtability, we 
expect a future improvement in our proﬁt 
before tax position leading to a reduced 
ETR in future periods. 
Earnings per share
Basic loss per share for the year was 
1.6 cents (FY2012: basic earnings per share 
30.4 cents). This decrease on the prior year 
was due to the reduced proﬁtability and 
the restructuring programme enacted in 
FY2013. Adjusting for the share-based 
payments expense and the non-recurring 
items, the normalised basic earnings 
per share ﬁgure was 11.4 cents, a 74% 
decrease on the prior year. 
Normalised diluted earnings per share 
reduced by 74% in the year to 11.2 cents 
(FY2012: 42.4 cents).
Dividends
At the Volex plc Annual General Meeting, 
shareholders approved the proposed 
FY2012 ﬁnal dividend of 3 cents per share 
(2012: 2 pence per share). This was paid in 
August 2012 resulting in a dividend cash 
outﬂow of $1.7m (2012: $1.9m).
An interim dividend of 2.0 cents per share 
for FY2013 was paid in February 2013 
resulting in a dividend cash outﬂow of 
$1.1m (2012: $0.9m).
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend for 
FY2013 of 3.0 cents per share. The Board is 
also proposing to introduce a Scrip 
Dividend Scheme which will give 
shareholders the right to elect to receive 
new ordinary shares in the Company 
(credited as fully paid) instead of future 
cash dividends when a scrip dividend 
alternative is offered.
The Scrip Dividend Scheme is intended to 
replace the Dividend Re-investment Plan 
which shareholders were previously invited 
to participate in. Under the Scrip Dividend 
Scheme, new ordinary shares will be 
allotted by the Company whereas under 
the Dividend Re-investment Plan existing 
ordinary shares were purchased in the 
market, which was subject to stamp duty 
and commission. As it will not be possible 
to participate in the Scrip Dividend Scheme 
(subject to shareholder approval being 
received) and the Dividend Re-investment 
Plan, any shareholders who have elected 
to join the Dividend Re-investment Plan will 
have their participation in the Dividend 
Re-investment Plan terminated by 
notiﬁcation in writing by the plan provider.
Details of how Shareholders can elect to 
participate in the Scrip Dividend Scheme 
and the terms and conditions of the 
scheme are set out in the Notice of 
Meeting which will be sent out in a 
separate document to this report and 
also in a booklet which will be posted to 
Shareholders. Both the Notice of Meeting 
and the booklet will also be made 
available on the Company’s website 
at www.volex.com. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the 
FY2013 ﬁnal dividend will be paid (or new 
Ordinary shares issued) on 17 October 2013 
to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 6 September 2013. It is 
proposed that the price of a new ordinary 
share under the scrip dividend alternative 
will be set at the average of the Company’s 
middle market closing price for the ﬁve 
consecutive dealing days commencing on 
the ex-dividend date of 4 September 2013. 
Performance indicators
Group normalised operating proﬁt £m
26.1
32.1
12.3
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
FY11
FY12
FY13 30
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Financial review 
continued
Return on capital employed
For FY2013, ROCE was 17%, down from 58% 
in FY2012. This reduction was in part due to 
the 61% reduction in normalised operating 
proﬁt but was also due to the signiﬁcant 
investment made in the future 
manufacturing capability of the group.
The above table deﬁnes how the Group 
calculates ROCE:
Cash ﬂows and net funds
Operating cash ﬂow before movements 
in working capital in the year was $8.8m 
(FY2012: $27 .5m).
Movements in working capital have 
yielded a further $3.2m of cash inﬂow 
(FY2012: $8.8m).
After aggregate outﬂows for tax and 
interest of $5.6m (FY2012: $6.0m), net cash 
generated from operating activities was 
$6.4m (FY 2012: $30.4m).
Despite the tough trading environment in 
FY2013, management remains conﬁdent 
in the Group’s long term strategy. As a 
consequence, the Group has made 
signiﬁcant capital investments in property, 
plant and equipment with $24.9m (2012: 
$10.3m) spent in FY2013. A signiﬁcant 
amount of this spend has been made in 
upgrading three of our key manufacturing 
facilities – Shenzhen, Batam and Brazil. 
A further $2.6m (2012: $2.0m) has been 
spent on intangible assets in FY2013 with 
$1.5m of this in relation to the AOC patent 
acquisition. Following FY2012’s signiﬁcant 
investment in the IT infrastructure of 
$2.0m, a further $0.8m has been spent in 
FY2013 on software, primarily engineering 
design software.
During FY2012, the Group, through its 
employee share trust, acquired 769,800 
shares in Volex plc at a cost of $3.3m. 
These shares, along with the 4,667 ,015 
shares previously held, are held for the 
beneﬁt of Volex employees and Directors 
to facilitate participation in the Company’s 
share option schemes. During FY2013, 
816,217 shares were utilised on the exercise 
of share options yielding a cash inﬂow of 
$0.4m (2012: 570,000 shares utilised 
yielding a cash inﬂow of $0.3m).
The full year dividend for FY2012 of 3 cents 
per share was paid out in the year, 
generating a cash outﬂow of $1.7m. 
Similarly the interim dividend of 2.0 cents 
per share for FY2013 led to a further cash 
outﬂow of $1.1m. 
To ﬁnance the capital expenditure in the 
year, a further $6.0m of debt ﬁnance has 
been drawn down against the senior 
credit facility. In the prior year, as part of 
the reﬁnancing $26.4m was repaid to 
close the pre-existing facility and $39.5m 
drawn down under the current facility. 
Professional fees associated with the 
reﬁnancing were incurred in the prior year 
leading to a cash outﬂow of $1.7m.
As a result of the above cash ﬂows, the 
Group incurred a $17 .2m cash outﬂow for 
the year (FY2012: $23.7m cash inﬂow). As at 
31 March 2013, the Group held net debt of 
$19.5m compared with a $3.6m net cash 
position as at 1 April 2012. 
The above cash ﬂow movements have 
resulted in the following free cash ﬂow 
for the period.
Annual free cash ﬂow FY12 $’m FY13 $’m
Net cash generated 
from operating 
activities 30.4 6.4
Cash ﬂow from 
investing activities (15.1) (26.7)
15.3 (20.3)
Add back:
Acquisition of 
own shares 3.0 (0.4)
Cash ﬂow on 
disposal of 
operations 0.0 0.0
Free cash ﬂow 18.3 (20.7)
FY12  
$’m
FY13  
$’m
Normalised operating proﬁt 32.0 12.3
Capital employed
Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 2.9 4.1
Property, plant and equipment 20.0 39.7
Inventories 49.8 43.0
Trade and other receivables 106.2 84.5
Trade and other payables (123.9) (98.6)
55.1 72.7
Return on Capital Employed 58% 17%
Performance indicators
Return on capital employed (ROCE) %
FY11
FY12
45.1
58.1
17.0
0510152025
FY13 31
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Banking facilities, covenants 
and going concern 
The Group utilises a $75m multi-currency 
combined revolving credit, overdraft and 
guarantee facility (‘RCF’). This facility is 
provided by a syndicate of three banks 
(Lloyds Banking Group plc, HSBC Bank plc 
and Clydesdale Bank plc).
The key terms of the facility are as follows;
 – available until June 2015;
 – no scheduled facility amortisation;
 – interest cover and net debt:EBITDA 
leverage covenants; and
 – a further $150m pre-negotiated 
facility agreed to fund future, as 
yet unidentiﬁed, acquisitions.
At 31 March 2013, amounts drawn under 
this facility totalled $45.4m (FY2012: $41.1m). 
After accounting for bonds, guarantees 
and letters of credit, the remaining 
headroom as at 31 March 2013 was 
$26.5m (FY2012: $31.0m). 
Under the terms of the facility, two 
covenant tests must be performed 
at each quarter end date. These are:
 – Leverage covenant – the ratio of net 
debt (adjusted for debt issue costs and 
letters of credit) to the rolling 12-month 
EBITDA (adjusted for a permitted £1.0 
million of exceptionals); and
 – Interest covenant – the ratio of the 
rolling 12-month EBITDA (adjusted for 
a permitted £1.0 million of exceptionals) 
to the rolling 12-month interest charge.
At year end, both covenants are met. 
The Group’s forecast and projections, 
taking reasonable account of possible 
changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should operate within the 
level of the contracted and committed 
facility for the foreseeable future and 
should comply with covenants over this 
period. The Group has access to additional 
undrawn committed facilities together with 
long established contracts with a number 
of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and industries. Further 
the Group has a number of mitigating 
actions available to it, should actual 
performance fall below the forecast and 
projections. As a consequence, the 
Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business within its 
covenants despite the ongoing uncertain 
economic outlook. 
Financial Instruments
The Group enters into contracts with 
ﬁnancial institutions which are linked to 
the average copper price as published 
by the London Metal Exchange (‘LME’). 
The purpose of these contracts is to 
mitigate the Group’s exposure to copper 
price volatility observed in the Group’s 
cost of sales (see page 35 where rising 
commodity prices has been identiﬁed 
as a key risk).
These contracts act as an economic 
hedge against the impact of copper price 
movements. They meet the technical 
requirements of IAS 39 and therefore are 
accounted for as cash ﬂow hedges of 
forecast future purchases of copper. As at 
31 March 2013, a ﬁnancial liability of $0.4m 
(2012: asset of $1.4m) has been recognised 
in respect of the fair value of open copper 
contracts with a corresponding $0.4m 
debit recognised in reserves. This debit is 
retained in reserves until such time as the 
forecast copper consumption takes place 
at which point it will be recycled through 
the income statement.
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme
The Group’s net pension deﬁcit under 
IAS 19 remained at a constant level of 
$3.6m with the $0.6m of contributions 
from the Group in FY2013 largely 
off-setting the actuarial increase in 
the pension obligations.
Daniel Abrams 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Free cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) $’m
FY11
FY12
5.8
18.3
(20.7)
–20 –15 –10 –5 10 501520
FY13
Performance indicators 32
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Group risk management
Risk management is an ever-present 
consideration in the day-to-day running 
of our business and we operate 
a continuous process of identifying, 
evaluating and managing signiﬁcant 
risks faced by the Group.
What is our approach to risk management
The Executive Management team has an established risk 
management framework designed to identify the key risks facing 
each of our businesses. This framework includes a review of a key 
business controls and risk mitigation activities. The Executive 
Management team reports to the Board on risk matters and how 
these are being managed. 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management and 
also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in 
managing risk across the Group. The Board receives regular 
reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and 
makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed 
under the period under review.
During the year, the in-house internal audit function was 
temporarily suspended as part of the cost restructuring initiative. 
The Executive Management team plans to use external 
consultants in the short term to provide internal audit assurance 
and are considering the best structure for our internal audit 
function going forward.
Key features of our system of risk 
management are:
 – detailed monthly business and ﬁnancial reviews 
by the Executive Management team and the Board;
 – established and documented risk management policies;
 – periodic education programmes to ensure front-of-mind of 
individual’s management, legal and ﬁduciary responsibilities 
and periodic self-certiﬁcation of compliance therewith;
 – ongoing monitoring of signiﬁcant risks and internal and 
external environmental factors that may change the Group’s 
risk proﬁle; and regular review of insurance cover, bearing in 
mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood 
and magnitude of the risks involved.
Risk management framework
The Board
 –   Has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems.
 –   Determines appetite for risk. 
Monitors and reviews risk 
exposures against this 
risk appetite.
 –   Se t s str a t egic objec tiv e s , 
including consideration of 
risk proﬁle of these objectives.
 –   Pr o v id es l e ad e r s h ip a n d 
direction on the importance 
of risk management and 
risk management culture.
 –   Identiﬁes, assesses, mitigates and 
reports group risks.
 –   Group risks categorised as either 
strategic, ﬁnancial, compliance or 
operational.
Volex Executive Management Team
 –   Supports the Board in monitoring 
risk exposure against risk appetite.
 –   Reviews the effectiveness of our 
risk management system.
Audit Committee
 –   Oversees the risk management 
process and provides guidance 
on risk management matters.
 –   Liaise with senior management to 
review risks and mitigating actions.
 – As at 31 March 2013, in-house internal 
audit function temporarily suspended 
whilst Executive Management review 
most cost effective means of provision.
Internal Audit 33
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our principal risks
The below table summarises our principal risks and what we do 
to manage these risks. The Board considers these to be the most 
signiﬁcant risks that could materially affect the Group’s ﬁnancial 
condition, performance, strategies and prospects. The risks listed 
do not comprise all risks faced by the Group and are not set out 
in any order of priority. Additional risks not presently known to 
management, or currently deemed to be less material, may 
also have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk Description and possible impact Mitigation activities
Uncertain 
economic 
environment
The ﬁnancial performance and condition 
of Volex may be adversely impacted by 
a signiﬁcant weakening in end-market 
demand, associated with a deterioration 
in global economic conditions.
The Group’s business and trading performance 
have been, and will continue to be, affected 
by global economic conditions. Should global 
economic conditions deteriorate or economic 
uncertainty increase, our customers and 
potential customers may experience 
deterioration of their businesses, which may 
result in the delay or cancellation of plans to 
purchase our products.
Volex supplies power and interconnect 
solutions, on short lead-times, to the global 
consumer, telecoms/datacoms, healthcare 
and industrial sectors. End-market economic 
conditions in these sectors is subject to some 
uncertainty and may cause Volex to experience 
further reductions in trading activity, a lower 
share price, the ﬁnancial failure of one or more 
of its key customers and suppliers, asset 
impairments, lower proﬁtability and a material 
adverse impact on its ﬁnancial position.
 – The Board regularly reviews Group strategy which 
determines the markets in which the Group operates.
 – Current spread of Group’s businesses, both 
geographic and by end-market served, provides 
some protection to the Group, should conditions 
in a particular market deteriorate.
 – Ongoing close working relationships with 
suppliers and customers to monitor performance.
 – Adapting product ranges to meet changing 
customer needs.
 – Early communication of adverse trading through 
functional and regional lines. Such early 
identiﬁcation enables more effective management 
of trading risk.
Loss of a key 
customer
The Group’s proﬁtability, ﬁnancial condition 
and future prospects may suffer signiﬁcantly 
if it were to lose a key account.
A signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s trading 
activity is with a relatively small number of 
large global accounts. Over 80% of total 
Group revenue is generated by the Group’s top 
25 customers, mostly prestigious global OEMs.
One of the Group’s customers individually 
accounts for more than 10% of total 
Group revenue.
 – The Group mitigates the risk of ﬂuctuations in 
revenues from these customers by strong trading 
relationships with them, while diversifying into 
other markets and new customers.
 – Initiatives in place to align our capabilities and 
resources with customers’ needs, and to improve 
quality systems.
 – Global key account managers in place for 
major customers. 
 – In practice these key customers operate in many 
business sectors and regions with somewhat 
independent trading relationships in each sector/
region. The loss of business in one particular area 
would not necessarily result in the loss of all of that 
customer’s business.
 – Strong credit control. 34
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Group risk management 
continued 
Risk Description and possible impact Mitigation activities
Production 
challenges 
and risks
The Group’s ﬁnancial performance and 
condition may be materially adversely affected 
by production related challenges and risks.
The Group operates nine production facilities 
across the globe and inefﬁciencies in the 
production process may lead to a deterioration 
in gross margins and operating proﬁt. 
Examples of challenges that may lead 
to production inefﬁciencies include:
 – Our customers specify quality, performance 
and reliability standards. If ﬂaws in either the 
design or manufacture of our products were 
to occur, we could experience a rate of 
failure in our products that could result in 
signiﬁcant delays in shipment and product 
re-work or replacement costs.
 – Fluctuating customer production schedules 
as a result of customer design changes, 
changes in customer manufacturing 
strategies or customer inventory 
management initiatives, amongst others.
 – The majority of our manufacturing sites 
are located in China and other developing 
markets. Changes in these labour markets 
as well as the rapid economic growth and 
social progress may continue to result in 
high labour turnover and increases in 
labour costs.
 – Our operations and those of our suppliers 
and customers may be vulnerable to 
interruption by natural disasters or other 
catastrophic events. If a business 
interruption should occur, our business 
could be materially and adversely affected.
 – Our operations are designed to be extremely 
ﬂexible and can accommodate a degree of volume 
ﬂuctuation. We work very closely with our key 
suppliers to minimise lead-times and maintain 
ﬂexibility in material supplies.
 – Additionally, we work closely with key customers 
to ensure that we understand their requirements 
and develop our manufacturing capabilities to 
meet their needs.
 – We have invested in new moulds, tooling and 
technology and have acquired new skills as part 
of our quality continuous improvement programme 
to sustain high quality output.
 – We are constantly reviewing our global footprint 
to ensure that we are located in the most cost 
effective area. 
 – We are also engaged in driving LEAN manufacturing 
and automation strategies to reduce our overall 
labour content.
 – Our newly expanded Batam factory will give better 
geographic coverage and reduce our exposure in 
China. Our coverage gives us ﬂexibility in the event 
of business interruptions.
Non-compliance 
with legislation 
and regulation
Failure to comply with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements may result in ﬁnancial 
loss, a restriction on our business’s ability to 
operate or reputational damage.
The Group operates in diverse global markets 
and therefore is exposed to a wide range 
of legal, ﬁscal and regulatory frameworks, 
including employment, environmental and 
health and safety legislation, along with product 
liability and contractual risks. In particular, 
operating within the rapidly evolving developing 
nations can expose the Group’s businesses 
to signiﬁcant local risks and challenges.
 – External consultants have been engaged to perform 
a number of corporate health checks in high risk 
markets to identify any compliance gaps and assist 
in the development of appropriate solutions.
 – We maintain a number of general compliance 
policies to ensure compliance with local laws, 
regulations and standards and any other laws 
with international reach, such as the UK Bribery Act, 
where relevant. These policies are reinforced 
through our ongoing training to employees. 
 – Code of Business Conduct communicated to the 
Group and third parties to make sure business is 
carried out in line with our policies and procedures. 35
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Risk Description and possible impact Mitigation activities
Breach of 
ﬁnancial 
covenants
The ﬁnancial performance and condition of 
Volex may be adversely impacted if the Group 
was not to meet its ﬁnancial covenants.
The Group’s $75m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility requires a quarterly assessment 
of the following two covenants (deﬁned in the 
ﬁnancial review):
 – Leverage covenant.
 – Interest covenant.
Failure to meet these covenants would result 
in an ‘Event of Default’ which would allow the 
lender to cancel the facility and request 
immediate repayment.
 – Through the development and delivery of 
the Group’s strategy, sufﬁcient proﬁts should 
be generated to ensure no breach of the 
ﬁnancial covenants.
 – The Group monitors forecast covenant ratios using 
the latest available ﬁnancial information (budget/
forecast). These calculations include sensitivities 
to de-risk the future performance.
 – If there were to be any indication of breach or 
headroom below 10%, mitigating actions would 
be implemented. 
 – The Group maintains an open and transparent 
dialogue with the facility providers to ensure they 
are aware of developments in the business.
Rising commodity 
prices
The Group may experience short term volatility 
in gross margin and operating proﬁt as a 
consequence of signiﬁcant changes in raw 
material commodity input prices.
Many of the Group’s products, in particular 
power cords which represent the majority 
of the sales in the Consumer sector, are 
manufactured from components that contain 
signiﬁcant proportions of copper and, to a 
lesser extent, other metals and oil-based 
products such as PVC. Increases in the prices 
of these commodities are reﬂected in the prices 
charged to our customers but delays in passing 
through these costs can cause short term 
volatility in the Group’s gross margins.
Copper price volatility is the single largest 
commodity price exposure facing the Group. 
The graph above illustrates how LME copper 
spot prices have ﬂuctuated during the period 
from April 2011 to March 2013
 – The Board regularly reviews the prices of these 
commodities and effects a number of measures 
to mitigate the impact of volatility.
 – With respect to copper, prices are ﬁxed quarterly 
with major suppliers based on average LME rate 
over prior quarter.
 – Approximately a third of the revenues in our 
Consumer sector are covered by copper clauses 
which provide for quarterly adjustments to our 
selling prices based on our input costs.
 – Occasionally, we employ back-to-back 
arrangements to match customer demand 
with cable supplier arrangements.
 – Strategic relationships established with 
key suppliers. 
 – We maintained a copper hedging programme, 
which ﬁxes the cost for a portion of our unmatched 
copper purchases. These forward copper purchase 
contracts extend out 12 months and are refreshed 
on a rolling monthly basis.
Failure to 
attract, develop 
and retain key 
personnel
Inability to retain key knowledge and 
adequately plan for succession could have 
a negative impact on Group performance.
The knowledge, skills and performance of 
our employees are central to our success. 
We must attract, develop and retain the talent 
required to fulﬁl our ambitions. 
 – Remuneration policies designed to attract, 
retain and reward appropriate employees.
 – Talent strategy to provide opportunities for 
employees to develop careers.
 – Formalised objective setting in place for employees.
 – Bonus scheme in place for relevant employees 
based on business and individual objectives.
 – In FY2013 the Group continued its global cultural 
change initiative. This is a multi-year programme 
that will see all employees engaged in the 
development and implementation of ‘One Volex’ 
and its supporting values.
Copper Spot Prices US$/metric tonne
6,000
8,000
10,000
March 13 December 12 September 12 June 12 March 12 December 11 September 11 June 11 April 11 36
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
Risk Description and possible impact Mitigation activities
Increased 
competition
The Group’s ﬁnancial performance and future 
prospects may be adversely impacted through 
loss of business to competitors with new 
or alternative technologies if its businesses 
either do not adequately adapt to market 
developments, or are unable to protect, 
maintain and enforce their intellectual property.
The markets in which the Group operates are 
mature and highly competitive with respect 
to price, geographic distinction, functionality, 
brand recognition and the effectiveness of 
sales and marketing strategies.
Our competitive position results from a range 
of factors including the price, quality and 
performance of our products, technology 
innovation, the level of customer service 
levels and lead-times, the development 
of new technologies and our geographic 
footprint. Increased competition may result in 
price reductions, reduced margins increased 
expense or investment, or loss of contracts, 
any of which could adversely affect our 
business and trading performance.
 – Strategic relationships with customers.
 – Investing in new technology and developing new 
products to maintain the Group’s competitive 
position, for example the Group’s investment 
in Active Optical cable solutions during FY2013.
 – Close monitoring of market trends and industry 
developments (e.g. by participating in Standards 
Committees) to shape, or at least gain early sight 
of, future product requirements.
Exchange rate 
ﬂuctuations
The Group’s ﬁnancial position and trading 
results may be adversely impacted by 
ﬂuctuations in exchange rates.
The Group operates in many different countries 
and is subject to currency ﬂuctuations arising 
on transactional foreign currency exposures 
and the translation of overseas subsidiaries’ 
results which could create earnings and 
balance sheet volatility.
 – Group Treasury Policy Statement sets out procedures 
on exchange rate risk management.
 – During FY2012 the Group adopted the US Dollar 
as its presentation currency. With the majority of the 
Group’s transactions denominated in US Dollars, 
or currencies tied to the US Dollar, this has continued 
to signiﬁcantly reduce the effect of exchange rate 
ﬂuctuations in the ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
 – Billing currencies have been adjusted to achieve 
a higher level of natural hedging.
 – Where there are material remaining exposures, 
the Company enters into ﬁnancial hedging to 
mitigate these exposures.
 – The impact of foreign exchange movements on 
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
is mitigated by a natural hedge arising as a 
result of the Group’s US Dollar and Euro 
denominated borrowings.
Group risk management 
continued
Principal exchange rates used in the year
Period end rate 
(Statement of Financial Position)
Average rate 
(Income statement)
FY2013 FY2012 FY2013 FY2012
GBP 0.658 0.626 0.631 0.626
Euro 0.780 0.750 0.775 0.721 37
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
During the year, we have made a 
considerable investment in employee 
training, which has enhanced our 
production capabilities and reduced staff 
attrition. There have been decreased 
environmental impacts, largely through the 
Company’s ongoing commitment to waste 
reduction. Commitment to the surrounding 
community is found not only through 
employee involvement in community life, 
but also in a continuing programme to 
provide transitional training to nurture 
and develop the skills of our workforce. 
Relationship with the 
employees
To act on the Company’s corporate 
responsibility to employees requires 
having the infrastructure in place to enable 
those actions. Until last year, Volex had 
a centralised human relations (HR) function 
in the London ofﬁces to support 
programmes for some 8,000 employees 
spread across four continents. In line with 
the precepts of the Code of Business 
Conduct, the Company established in 
FY2011 an HR ofﬁce for the Asia region, 
which has enabled employee 
programmes to be tailored to the speciﬁc 
needs of the region where the majority 
of Volex employees are located. In 
FY2013, a senior HR professional was 
hired to support the Company’s North 
American operations.
Localised HR ofﬁces better enable Volex 
to negotiate the delicate balance between 
fundamental corporate mandates and the 
culture and customs of a region. This is a 
particularly crucial balance as the ‘One 
Volex’ cultural transformation continues 
throughout the company, and as new 
processes and more rigorous customer 
speciﬁcations create new and often 
greater demands on employees. Many 
changes in Volex practices have been 
designed to provide greater job fulﬁlment 
for employees, which is critical to enabling 
higher performance.
Communications and training
It is a signiﬁcant advantage for Volex if our 
staff, particularly our production workers, 
understand that they are an integral part 
of the Company and not just doing a job. 
To that end, we have created more 
extensive internal communications. 
In FY2013, regional newsletters were 
launched to communicate with our 
Chinese employees. In September 2012, 
we launched the Volex Connected 
newsletter in order to communicate 
with our employees and provide 
quarterly updates on the new 
developments and ongoing strategy 
within the global enterprise.
Training programmes are focused 
primarily on the production workforce, 
bringing them up to speed on new 
processes, more advanced tooling and 
machinery, and quality concerns. As 
additional IT investments were made in 
FY2013, additional training across other 
functions was performed in order to 
optimise the return on those investments.
Health and safety
Health and safety is not only a corporate 
responsibility, it is also a core business 
value. The Company is committed to 
health and safety from a social and 
pragmatic level, and is a healthier 
company when it looks after the welfare 
of its people.
In the third year of a codiﬁed health and 
safety policy, the Company has seen 
continued improvement, both in its ability 
to monitor and review health and safety 
performance, and in the quantiﬁable 
results of the policy as risks are more 
accurately identiﬁed and addressed. 
As risks continue to be assessed and 
analysed, the Company will be able to 
develop and implement highly targeted 
safety initiatives, producing more efﬁcient 
and effective results.
Relationship with 
the environment
Volex pays close attention to the 
environmental impact of our activities 
related to ongoing operations and new 
developments. We are committed to 
environmental sustainability and will 
continue to raise awareness with our 
staff to encourage waste reduction, 
recycling and responsible disposal, 
whilst engaging with suppliers/vendors 
on responsible procurement.
Corporate 
responsibility
Our corporate Code 
of Business Conduct, 
introduced in August 
2010, codiﬁed that 
Volex’s relationships 
with employees, the 
environment, the 
surrounding community 
and stakeholders were 
paramount. In that context, 
corporate responsibility has 
been a fundamental aspect 
of the cultural transformation 
underway at Volex. 38
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review
As part of our estates development 
strategy, we have recently completed the 
ﬁrst phase of our building expansion 
project in Batam, Indonesia. The new 
facility has become a ﬂagship factory for 
Volex and boasts ﬁrst class air-conditioned 
facilities in addition to energy efﬁcient 
lighting. The Batam facility will be the ﬁrst 
Volex factory to adopt direct shipment of 
products as well as introduce new utility 
service equipment and plant cooling 
systems, all of which provide 
environmental and ﬁnancial beneﬁts. 
These enhancements form part of our 
continual improvement programme to 
reduce carbon emissions through the 
performance of the organisation and to 
support and develop a high performing 
health, safety and environmental culture.
Our policy development and 
implementation work continues as we 
drive change in operational practices 
throughout our production facilities. Every 
Volex facility, therefore, seeks to identify 
opportunities to reduce its environmental 
impact. Operations continue to evolve as 
our LEAN manufacturing initiative is more 
deeply adopted, reducing waste through 
more efﬁcient production as well as 
reductions in defective and damaged product. 
Compliance with a range of accepted 
environmental regulations and 
certiﬁcations is another part of the Volex 
strategy for environmental sensitivity. 
Through the end of FY2013, all of the 
Company’s production facilities had met 
the requirements in the ISO 14001 
Environmental Management System.
Finally, the Company is still making strides 
to reduce the use of hazardous materials 
in production. The Company is committed 
to following known legislation and 
regulatory requirements in every region we 
work in. These include the Restrictions of 
Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive 
and the Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical 
substances (REACH) regulation. Volex also 
aligns operations with the Waste Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) 
regulations and assists our customers 
in achieving compliance.
The Board regards responsible corporate 
behaviour in respect of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) matters as 
an integral part of the overall governance 
framework and believes that it should be 
fully integrated into management 
structures and systems. Further 
information on this is included in the 
Corporate Governance Report (internal 
controls section) in this document. 
Therefore the risk management policies, 
procedures and monitoring methods 
described in that section apply equally to 
the identiﬁcation, evaluation and control of 
Volex’s safety, ethical and environmental 
risks and opportunities. And the key risks 
addressed in the Risk Management section 
encompass important environmental, 
social and governance concerns.
Carbon reporting
At Rio+20 it was announced that the UK 
Government will introduce a regulation 
requiring reporting of greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by UK quoted companies. 
The guidance for companies to help 
comply with the requirements of the 
regulation was published on 9 April 2013. 
Volex intends to be able to fully comply 
and report on the relevant information in 
next year’s Annual Report. 
Relationship with 
the community
Volex has always encouraged its 
employees to be active participants in the 
life of their community – sponsoring sports 
teams, volunteering with local 
organisations, contributing with their time, 
energy and even ﬁnances to local social 
causes. It is a point of corporate pride that 
when recruiting we employ local staff as 
much as possible.
Relationship with 
the stakeholders
The Company’s business is built on the 
conﬁdence and commitment of our 
stakeholders. Whether they are investing 
in us, buying from us, or selling to us, those 
relationships are crucial to the success of 
Volex – as a business, and as a 
responsible body corporate.
Shareholders
As Volex’s business model has become 
more strategic and sophisticated in recent 
years, Investor Relations has taken on 
greater importance. The Company sees 
its investor community as active partners 
in the transformation being undertaken 
and efforts are under way to engage 
our shareholders more regularly and 
routinely through an expanded 
communications programme.
Customers
Volex’s customers are companies that 
have their own corporate responsibility 
positions. As vital and trusted partners of 
the Company, they can directly inﬂuence 
the approach Volex takes through their 
processes for awarding contracts. So it is 
incumbent on the Company to adopt the 
most rigorous corporate responsibility 
policies in preparation for customers who 
may demand a certain sustainable 
approach or environmental prerequisite. 
By being proactive around corporate 
responsibility issues, Volex is a better 
partner to its customers.
Suppliers
‘Supply-chain integration’ has now taken 
on a much richer and more nuanced 
deﬁnition: more than mere integration 
of systems and processes, it now also 
encompasses a dovetailing of corporate 
values. Thus, in the same way that Volex 
has proactively taken on higher-level 
positions of corporate responsibility, it 
expects the same of its suppliers: in part, 
because it is the right way to do business; 
and in part, because the only way Volex 
can meet the corporate-responsibility 
criteria of its own customers is to get our 
suppliers aligned with the Company’s own 
corporate-responsibility positions and 
initiatives. To that end, we have continued 
our Supply Chain Excellence programme 
and carried out extensive annual audits 
of supplier practices, policies and 
processes, insisting on corrective action 
for those suppliers who do not meet 
baseline criteria.
Corporate responsibility 
continued 39
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
A balanced Board
We believe that the Board is appropriately 
balanced for the needs of the Company 
and the stakeholders that the Company 
serves. The composition of the Board 
has been developed to ensure that the 
Company can beneﬁt from the depth 
of experience and knowledge of our 
Directors, whilst allowing the Board to 
discharge its duties effectively. Having a 
balanced Board helps to facilitate objective 
judgement on corporate affairs 
independently, in an open and honest 
environment. No individual or small group 
of individuals is in a position to dominate 
the Board’s decision making.
The Board is comprised of three Executive 
Directors, three Non-Executive Directors 
and myself as Non-Executive Chairman. 
The Non-Executive Directors have all 
enjoyed successful business careers, and 
are well qualiﬁed to serve on the Board. 
The diversity of opinions, perspectives 
and insights given by the Non-Executive 
Directors inevitably contribute to having 
a balanced Board.
Skills and experience
We have a solid and experienced leadership 
team covering a wide combination of skills 
and expertise. This team of executives has 
been put in place to allow for signiﬁcant 
growth of the Company, in a way that ﬁts 
their extensive and diverse experiences. 
We have a rigorous approach to Director 
selection and an annual evaluation 
process that includes assessing a 
Director’s time commitments as well as 
their skills. Whilst our current practice is to 
use self-directed survey and questionnaire 
tools and personal interviews to conduct 
our evaluation, we will continue to evaluate 
and consider the use of external 
consultants to support this process. 
For both Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, it is my responsibility to ensure 
that the Board maintains the best possible 
balance and that this balance is 
continuously reviewed in line with 
the Company’s needs and objectives.
Board diversity
We review the shape and composition 
of the Board for the future, ensuring that 
the beneﬁts and importance of a diverse 
Board will be at the heart of our selection 
criteria and that the right mix of gender, 
expertise and experience is reﬂected on 
the Board. 
Having the mix of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors enables us to bring 
together a wealth of experience gained 
from a variety of different professional and 
cultural backgrounds. Currently we have 
one woman Director on the Board, who 
also serves as Deputy Chairman. We 
are in the process of developing our 
board diversity policy, which we plan to 
implement during the upcoming ﬁnancial 
year, taking into account the principles 
set out in the Financial Reporting Council 
report on Boardroom Diversity and the 
guidance set out by Lord Davies in his 
Review on Women on Boards in February 
2011. Volex recognises the importance 
of considering diversity when making 
appointments to the Board, whilst ensuring 
all appointments are in line with improving 
the effectiveness of the Board.
Board evaluation
Volex is committed to best practice in its 
governance activities. In line with best 
practices, we conduct Board evaluations 
of the Full Board, our committees and 
individual Board Members to review the 
performance of the Board. The last 
evaluation was performed in the prior year 
and in order to gauge progress on those 
areas identiﬁed for development, we will 
be conducting the review again in the 
coming year. Further information on this 
can be found at page 45.
Priorities for FY2014
Volex strives to comply with and implement 
the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, with focus on 
monitoring the effectiveness of the Board 
and using the UK Corporate Governance 
Code to help guide and shape the 
corporate governance of the Company 
as it continues to grow.
Chairman’ s 
introduction 
to governance
Strong governance is crucial in helping 
our business deliver its strategy. My role 
as Chairman is to provide leadership to 
the Board and to ensure that we have 
established the right environment to 
enable the Directors and the Board as 
a whole to perform effectively for the 
success of the Company and the beneﬁt 
of its shareholders.
We are continuing to infuse the principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010 (the ‘UK Corporate Governance Code’) 
into the organisation by ensuring we 
have the right management structures 
and processes in place to support 
our strategies. 
Achieving good governance and being 
a responsible company is inextricably 
linked with the organisational culture 
and the manner in which we manage 
our business. Equally, it is about what 
standards we apply in how we deal 
with people in whichever stakeholder 
group they may be. What we strive to 
do is to adopt and implement what is 
right for our business, whilst being 
open and transparent.
Our governance structure
The Company’s governance structure is 
organised to provide clear and responsible 
corporate governance practices. In addition 
to the Board, the committees supplement 
and help contribute to reinforce these 
practices. While we believe that Volex’s 
current governance structure is adequate 
to ensure compliance with the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, we 
have taken and continue to take steps to 
improve these structures and practices to 
support the overall strategy of the Company.
The reports of the committees on the 
following pages in this section explain the 
structures and systems we have in place 
to ensure compliance with applicable 
corporate governance policies in the areas 
of board composition, assessment of 
board effectiveness, and accountability. 40
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Board of Directors
Mike McTighe
Chairman
Year of appointment
Mike McTighe, 59, was appointed as 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 
on 1 March 2008.
Former roles and experience: 
Mike was previously the chairman at Pace 
plc, a Director of London Metal Exchange 
Holdings and Chairman and Chief Executive 
ofﬁcer of Carrier International SA. Prior to that 
Mike was Executive Director and Chief 
Executive for the global operations of Cable 
& Wireless plc. Mike has also held senior 
roles with Philips, Motorola and GE and has 
more than 30 years’ experience in the TMT 
sector worldwide. 
Board Committees
Nomination Committee (Chairman) 
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships: 
Chairman of WYG Group plc  
Chairman of Nujira Ltd  
Chairman of Quinn Group Holdco Ltd 
Board member of Ofcom 
Non-Executive Director of Betfair Group  
Non-Executive Director of Arran Isle Ltd
Karen Slatford
Deputy Chairman
Year of appointment
Karen Slatford, 56 was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 27 May 2008 
and was appointed as Deputy Chairman 
of the Board on 14 December 2012.
Former roles and experience:
Karen was previously a Non-Executive Director 
for HAL Knowledge Solutions, Portwise AB and 
Compel Group plc. Between 1983 and 2011 
Karen was employed by Hewlett Packard Ltd 
and whilst working across various capacities 
and roles, was focused on improving the 
Company’s sales and marketing throughout 
the UK and globally. In 2000, Karen was 
appointed Chairman of Hewlett Packard UK 
Ltd and also undertook the position of Vice 
President and General Manager Worldwide 
of sales and marketing, business customer 
organisation until 2001. 
Board Committees
Audit Committee 
Nomination Committee  
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships: 
Chairman of Neverfail Group 
Chairman of the Foundary Visionmongers,  
Chairman of Featurespace Limited 
Chairman of Acunu Limited 
Non-Executive Director of Microfocus 
International plc 
Non-Executive Director of Cambridge 
Broadband Network  
Member of the advisory board at Pentech 
Ventures LLP
Chris Geoghegan
Senior Independent Director
Year of appointment
Chris Geoghegan, 58, was appointed a 
Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2008 
and became the Board’s Senior Independent 
Director with effect from 31 December 2008.
Former roles and experience:
Until 31 December 2007 , Chris was a group 
Director of BAE Systems plc, responsible for 
all European joint ventures, the company’s 
commercial aerospace interests as well as 
the UK wholly-owned electronics business 
and shared services. Chris is a Fellow of the 
Royal Aeronautical Society and was 
previously president of the Society of British 
Aerospace Companies
Board Committees
Audit Committee 
Nomination Committee  
Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Current Directorships: 
Non-Executive Director of Kier Group plc 
Non-Executive Director of SIG plc
Richard Arkle
Non-Executive Director
Year of Appointment
Richard Arkle, 64, joined the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director on 20 April 2005. 
Richard was Chairman of the Board from 
6 May 2006 until 1 March 2008, when he 
resumed the role of a Non-Executive Director.
Former roles and experience:
Richard was a partner at KPMG LLP from 
1 October 1982 until he retired on 
30 September 2004, where as a senior 
partner, he played a key role in developing 
the transaction services practice. Richard 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of England and Wales and 
has extensive experience in a range of 
businesses across a number of market 
sectors. Richard also provides consultancy 
services to a variety of businesses and 
professional ﬁrms. He is a Trustee of the 
Dinwoodie Trust, a charity which owns 
and extracts mineral deposits and donates 
the proceeds to support post graduate 
medical education. 
Board Committees
Audit Committee (Chairman)
Non-Executive Directors 41
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Ray Walsh
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Ray Walsh, 48, was appointed Group 
Chief Executive on 6 April 2009. He served 
previously as Chief Executive of VIA NET.
WORKS Inc. servicing global clients from its 
head ofﬁce in Amsterdam and immediately 
prior to joining Volex he led the operations, 
technology, products, communications and 
research of a leading market research ﬁrm 
in the US. Ray has more than 20 years’ 
experience in technology leadership and, 
for more than half of his career, held senior 
executive roles with international and global 
organisations. Ray has led numerous 
organisational and technological integrations 
in global technology and telecommunications 
concerns in addition to driving sales and 
operational transformations in both large 
scale and venture capital backed ﬁrms.
Daniel Abrams
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Daniel Abrams, 57 , was appointed Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer on 17 December 2012. Prior 
to joining Volex, Daniel was Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of Fiberweb plc a position which he 
was appointed to in February 2008 until April 
2012. Prior to joining Fiberweb he was chief 
ﬁnancial ofﬁcer of Cambridge Display 
Technology Inc and was Finance Director of 
Xenova Group plc between 1997 and 2005. 
He had previously held senior ﬁnance roles 
with Diageo plc, including Head of Corporate 
Finance and Strategy, and PepsiCo Inc, where 
he was VP Finance for one of the beverage 
divisions. He holds an MA in law from 
Cambridge, is a qualiﬁed barrister and is 
a chartered accountant having qualiﬁed 
at Arthur Andersen & Co. He has been a 
member of the Financial Reporting Review 
Panel since January 2007 and is 
a Non-Executive Director at BioCity 
(Nottingham) Ltd and Vincennes Ltd.
David McKinney
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
David McKinney, 52, was appointed to the 
new position of Chief Operating Ofﬁcer on 
2 May 2012. From November 2005 to January 
2012, David served as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
of Pace plc where he was also a member 
of the Board of Directors. David has over 20 
years of experience in senior executive and 
operational roles, spending ten years in the 
semiconductor industry including NEC 
Semiconductors and Digital Equipment 
Corporation, before moving to and spending 
over ten years in the telecommunications 
sector including Motorola and Royal Philips 
Electronics. David is a Graduate of the Royal 
Society of Chemistry (hons) and holds an 
MBA from Heriot Watt University.
Christoph Eisenhardt
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
(from 1 July 2013)
Christoph Eisenhardt, 45, joins Volex on 
1 July 2013 from KVT-Koenig Group (‘KVT’), 
the industrials group, headquartered in 
Switzerland. Prior to working for KVT, 
Christoph spent six years at Siemens 
and then Continental as Chief Executive 
of Siemens VDO Automotive/Continental 
Commercial Vehicles and Aftermarket 
products division and before that was 
Executive Vice President of the security 
systems division of Siemens Building 
Technologies Group.
Executive Directors
XX%
Composition 
of the Board
Male Non-Executive 3
Female Non-Executive 1
Executive 3
XX%
0-3 years 2
3-6 years 4
6-9 years 1
Length of service 
of the Board  42
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Corporate governance report 
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the 
52 week period ended 31 March 2013, (FY2013), including any 
additional requirements set out in the updated Code released in 
September 2012 by the FRC, and up to the date of reporting except 
for the following matters: 
In accordance with section B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has considered whether each of the Non-Executive 
Directors is independent in character and judgment. All Directors are 
required to disclose any additional commitments and positions they 
hold for the Company to have full transparency into the review of 
their independence. After having fully reviewed the factors that were 
identified as causing doubt over their independence, it has 
concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent. 
Mike McTighe, Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford have held long 
term incentive awards under the Volex plc Non-Executive Director 
Long term Incentive Scheme (Non-Executive LTIS). Following approval 
by the shareholders at a General Meeting on 1 October 2010, the 
terms of these awards were amended. Prior to the General Meeting, 
the Remuneration Committee of the Board engaged with 
shareholders in a dialogue to remind the shareholders of the unique 
circumstances under which the Non-Executive LTIS was initially 
adopted and the reasons for the amendments. Full details of the 
scheme, and the amendments made, are given on page 54 of 
the Remuneration Report, respectively. The continuing view of the 
Board is that the Non-Executive LTIS does not compromise the 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors, as they have each 
applied an objective approach and demonstrated both dedication 
and integrity in their roles as Non-Executive Directors and the Board 
has no reason to believe that this will change in the future. 
Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code are publicly available 
from the website of the Financial Reporting Council (www.frc.org.uk). 
Statement of how the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code have been applied 
The following paragraphs together with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report set out on pages 48 to 56 and the Directors’ Report set out on 
pages 57 to 63 describe how the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code have been applied. 
Volex is committed to maintaining good, responsible and transparent corporate governance 
practices. A strong corporate governance structure is vital to achieving this. The Board is 
responsible for ensuring that the Company can generate sustainable growth and deliver long 
term value to all stakeholders of the Company. The Board’s activities are supplemented by 
Nomination, Audit, Remuneration and Chairman’s Committees. Essential support to the 
Board and Board Committees is also provided by the Company Secretary together with a 
strong and experienced global executive team. 
Volex shareholders
Board of Directors
Chris Geoghegan 
(Sr. Ind. Director)
Richard Arkle (NED)
Ray Walsh (CEO)
Karen Slatford  
(Deputy Chairman)
Daniel Abrams (CFO)
 
David McKinney (COO)
Mike McTighe (Chairman)
Audit
Committee
Chairman’s
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
C
C
Nominations
Committee
Richard Arkle  
(Chair)
Chris Geoghegan 
Karen Slatford
 
Chris Geoghegan
(Chair)
Mike McTighe
Karen Slatford
Mike McTighe 
(Chair)
Chris Geoghegan
Karen Slatford 
Mike McTighe 
(Chair)
Ray Walsh
Others as requested  
by the Chair
Executive Team Company Sec y retary r r
Governance Structure 43
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
Board of Directors 
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, a Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and two Non-Executive Directors, all of whom 
the Board consider to be independent, together with three Executive Directors. Volex is in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code’s requirement to have at least half its Board comprise of independent Non-Executive Directors. Volex’s Articles of Association provide 
that all Directors are subject to re-election every three years, which is in line with principle B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Details of those Directors who will be offering themselves for election can be found on page 61 of the Directors’ Report. The Directors are in 
agreement that the Board is of a sufficient size in order that the requirements of the Company can be met, and will continue to review this in 
accordance with its needs. The biographies of the Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41. 
There has been much discussion regarding gender and diversity on the boards of listed companies. The European Commission in 
November 2012, released its proposals for the reforms of women on boards, which proposed setting a minimum objective of 40 per cent of 
female Non-Executive Directors on the boards of all companies by 2020. Currently the proposal is in the draft stage, awaiting approval from 
the European Parliament and Council of Ministers. 
The Board is in agreement with the view of UK Ministers to not impose mandatory quotas. Volex is aware of the importance of ensuring 
gender balance. It is of the view that the primary focus during the selection process of appointing a new Director should take into 
consideration a variety of factors, including a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. 
Candidates are identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, 
including gender Volex awaits the outcome of the European Commission’s proposals and would seek to comply with the requirements set 
as a result of the directives passed. 
There is currently one woman Director from a total of seven on the Board. Volex values the significant benefits of diversity, including gender 
diversity, among its Directors and will continue to ensure that for all new appointments, strong consideration is given to diversity and gender 
as key critical selection criteria. 
Director induction 
On appointment, Directors receive an induction to the business that includes a briefing on the activities of the Group. In addition, the 
Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that all new Directors have access to appropriate training and advice in relation to their ongoing 
duties as Directors. 
As part of the induction, all new Directors are invited to take part in a full-day training session to assist in their understanding and preparation 
of their fiduciary responsibilities. The training is led by a third party global leader in corporate governance and compliance. Members of the 
Volex extended leadership team and fellow colleagues who have been invited to become Directors for Volex entities are also invited to 
attend. It is also mandatory for all senior level staff appointed as Directors of Volex’s subsidiary companies to attend at least one session 
upon their appointment. 
The training is intended to provide information and support to Directors in understanding the fiduciary duties and obligations as a Director. 
The Company also holds discussions on how to balance Director duties with the internal functional structure. We believe the training is a 
useful opportunity for continuing professional development of senior management and reinforces our commitment to a strong leadership 
culture throughout Volex. The Company held sessions in February, March and November 2012. We are looking to hold a further session later 
this year, and will continue to conduct sessions as and when new Directors are appointed. 
The Board is supported by Company Secretary, Matt Nydell, who was appointed on 18 September 2010 and brings a wealth of experience in 
corporate governance and development. 
Operation of the Board 
The Board is scheduled to meet at least ten times a year and during FY2013 it met fifteen times. The Board also engages in active and 
regular dialogue and consideration of various Volex issues through frequent electronic mail dialogue and ad-hoc conference calls.  
Last year, the Board, Board committee and Board Member evaluations were conducted with the assistance of the Company Secretary, to 
review the performance of the Board for the financial year ending 2012. The results of the evaluation indicated a general satisfaction of the 
members as to the workings of the Board and its interaction with senior management. Board members also sought further opportunities for 
continuing development and a more active role in the Company’s strategic planning process. As a result of last year’s evaluation, the 
Chairman has established a regular calendar of meetings between the Executive Directors, CEO and Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director. The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, and vice versa. There are 
also meetings held with the CEO without the presence of either Non-Executive Directors or Executive Directors present. These meetings were 
instituted to foster an open environment for the Company to address any issues they may have.  
The frequency of the Board meetings is dictated by the supervision and direction required and sought by the Company’s Executives in 
managing the affairs and strategy of the Company as well as the pace of change within the organisation. The Board is satisfied that it meets 
sufficiently regularly in order to discharge its duties effectively. The table below summarises the attendance by Board or Committee members 
at meetings held during the year. 
 
   44
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Corporate governance report 
continued 
 
 
Name 
Board 
15 meetings
Audit Committee 
4 meetings
Remuneration 
Committee  
3 meetings 
Nominations 
Committee 
1 meeting*
Chairman’s 
Committee 
0 meetings**
M McTighe 15 – 3 1 –
D Abrams*** 5 – – – –
R Arkle 14 4 – – –
A Cherry 10 – – – –
C Geoghegan 11 4 3 1 –
D McKinney 14 – – – –
P Mountford**** – – – – –
K Slatford 15 4 3 1 –
R Walsh 15 – – – –
*  The Nominations Committee meets only as required. 
** The Chairman’s Committee meets only as required and its membership includes the Chairman and CEO and other members as invited by the Chairman and 
appropriate to the topic to be addressed. 
*** Daniel Abrams was appointed to the Board in December 2012. 
**** Paul Mountford was promoted to a high level senior role within Cisco Systems shortly after his appointment to the Board of Volex. After time, he found himself 
incapable of devoting adequate time to his Director role with the Company and accordingly submitted his resignation. The Board accepted his resignation effective 
2 May 2012. 
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within the Company, and of the Group 
as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, research and development, Health & Safety, sustainability and other relevant 
issues. The information is provided in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to discharge its duties. 
The Board generally seeks to visit an overseas Volex site at least once a year. This helps ensure: 
– that members are able to maintain a first-hand appreciation of local conditions and issues facing the Company; 
– that the necessary financial and human resources are in place; and 
– that the Company’s values and standards are being met.  
During FY2013 there were, however, no Board meetings held abroad. In FY2014, the Board intends to resume its annual overseas visit. 
Certain matters relating to the review of business performance, major strategy, policy and investment decisions affecting the Company 
and the development of Company policies in a number of areas including health and safety, social, ethical and environmental issues and 
insurance are reserved for the Board. Other matters are delegated to the discretion of management, such as items that are included in the 
approved annual budget. 
The Board approves the annual business plan and budget of the Company which is initially prepared by senior management of each of 
the Company’s sectors and then adopted by the executive team. Actual sector and Company performance against budget is reviewed by 
the Board at each Board meeting and Executive Directors comment on any areas where performance departs from current expectations. 
Significant variances are discussed by the Board and appropriate action is taken. If considered appropriate, the Board meets with senior 
operational management of the Company in order to further enhance its understanding of the Company’s key developments. Procedures 
have been adopted to enable the Board to make informed decisions on a range of key issues including those relating to strategy and 
risk management. 
A key role for the Non-Executive Directors is to provide constructive engagement with executive management in particular the Executive 
Directors, on the key issues affecting the Company. A balance of four independent Non-Executive Directors to three Executive Directors 
creates a healthy environment for executive management strategy and management proposals to be challenged and scrutinised, and 
for reporting of performances to be monitored. 
Whilst the responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors may differ, the Board collectively share the same 
responsibility and focus in ensuring the long term success of the Company. 
The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, setting 
its agenda and also ensuring that each Director has adequate information before making decisions. The Chairman ensures effective 
communication with shareholders and makes himself available to meet with shareholders. As Chairman, Mike McTighe also facilitates the 
effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors in order to promote a culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations 
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
Chris Geoghegan, as Senior Independent Director, makes himself available to meet with shareholders. The Chief Executive, Ray Walsh, is 
responsible for the Company’s business overall and leads the execution of the Company’s strategy. The Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary and both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a 
whole. The Board practices the policy that the Directors are able to take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. 
   45
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
The Chairman, the Company Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of all 
financial information submitted to the Board. The Company Secretary is responsible for the timeliness and quality of all other information 
submitted to the Board and for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance issues. The normal procedure is to distribute Board 
papers at least five days in advance of meetings. 
Directors’ and officers’ insurance against legal action is in place providing cover for Directors and certain key officials of the Company and its 
subsidiaries. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the 
Company has also granted qualifying third party indemnities to the Directors, which remain in force, copies of which will be available for 
inspection at the forthcoming AGM. Neither the insurance policy not our indemnity provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to 
have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Board effectiveness: Board evaluation 
The Board considers essential a periodic evaluation of the effectiveness, quality and focus of its members, the committees and the full Board. 
This is done through the use of a series of questionnaire surveys prepared by the Company Secretary and Chairman, in consultation with 
corporate governance best practices. Volex is committed to ensuring that the surveys cover the relevant areas and are able to clearly reflect 
the opinions of the Members. The surveys request member feedback on a number of areas critical to the assessment of the Board’s 
effectiveness, including questions about leadership within the Board, the appropriateness of the current Board composition, the process 
associated with the appointment of new members, the level of commitment of members, the Company’s support for continuing 
development of the Directors, the quality and timeliness of information provided to the Board by management and the Company Secretary, 
engagement with shareholders, and an independent view of the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors. 
The last evaluation performed was in the prior year. All members of the Board were in agreement that the Board demonstrated an ethical 
leadership and the Executive Directors felt that the Non-Executive Directors had effectively discharged their duties. There was also strong 
consensus by the Directors that the Chairman’s performance during the year was effective. A complete detailed breakdown of the results 
was presented by the Chairman at the Board Meeting, with the evaluation of the Chairman discussed by the full Board in his absence. 
The Board plans to perform a further evaluation in the coming year. 
Board Committees 
The Board has established the following Committees, each of which has adopted written terms of reference dealing clearly with the 
Committee’s authority and duties. Revised terms of reference for the Audit and Remuneration Committees were adopted during FY2011 and 
all committee terms of reference are available on request and on the Company’s website (www.volex.com) and are regularly reviewed by 
the relevant committee and the Board. During FY2011, the Board established the Chairman’s Committee to address issues that fall outside 
the remit of other Committees and the regularly-scheduled Board meetings. 
The Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is comprised of Mike McTighe, who is Chairman of the Committee, Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford, 
all of whom have been determined to be independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Board appointments are considered initially by the Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the full Board for further 
consideration and approval. In performing its duties the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board, which enables it to determine the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment. The Nomination Committee 
takes advice from a variety of sources including external recruitment consultants when considered appropriate. The Board seeks to maintain 
an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary, Matt Nydell is Secretary to the Committee. 
Working with the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company is continuing to develop its policy on diversity, which 
will be fully supported and implemented by the Nomination Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Chris Geoghegan, who is Chairman of the Committee, Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford. 
The Company Secretary, Matt Nydell acts as Secretary to the Committee. The structure and business of the Remuneration Committee is 
summarised in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56. 
The Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, Richard Arkle, Chairman of the Committee, Karen Slatford and 
Chris Geoghegan. Richard Arkle is regarded by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, and Group Financial Controller are invited to attend regular meetings; however the 
Audit Committee also meets without the Executive Directors at least once a year. 
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group together with any formal 
announcements in relation to the Group’s financial performance. It reviews the Company’s internal financial controls and also reviews 
the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit function, although the Company’s internal control and risk management processes 
are considered by the Board as a whole. The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment,  
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors. It considers the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness  
   46
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Corporate governance report 
continued 
 
and the effectiveness of the external audit process. Furthermore, the Audit Committee monitors the independence and objectivity of the 
auditors and the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditor by analysing fees for audit and non-audit work; by 
receiving from, and discussing with, the auditors their annual report regarding their independence policies and procedures; and by receiving 
from the auditors confirmation that they have complied with APB Ethical Standards. Throughout the year, the Audit Committee reports to the 
Board on how it has discharged its various responsibilities. 
During the year the Committee reviewed the provision of overall assurance within the Company, including a review of external audit 
arrangements. As part of this review, the Committee, jointly with the Board, recommended that the Company should seek the re-
appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external auditors to the Company and Group at the AGM to be held on 22 July 2013. At the 
2012 AGM, the resolution was passed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The Board has adopted a policy statement setting out 
principles for the use of the external auditors for non-audit services. The policy ensures that the Board has an adequate opportunity to review 
the continuing independence and objectivity of the Company’s external auditors and is in line with the Code and the Audit Practices Board 
Ethical Standards 5. 
The respective responsibilities of the Directors in connection with the financial statements are explained in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement in the Directors’ Report and in the Auditor’s Report. The Directors seek to ensure the independence of the auditor by requesting an 
annual confirmation of independence, which includes the disclosure of all non-audit fees. 
Chairman’s Committee 
The Chairman’s Committee was established during 2010 and is comprised of Mike McTighe, Chairman of the Committee, Ray Walsh and 
one or more of the other Directors as invited by the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee acts on behalf of and with full power of the 
Board when, as between scheduled Board meetings, it is not practicable to convene a meeting of the Board and a matter is not reserved for 
the Nomination, Remuneration or Audit Committees; and when specific delegations are conferred upon it by the Board. The Chairman’s 
Committee meets on an ad-hoc basis during the year, as required. This year, no Chairman’s Committee meetings were held. 
Internal controls 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
this system. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and control the significant risks associated with the Company’s achievement of its 
business objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets. Because of the limitations that are 
inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Company’s particular needs and the risks to which it is 
exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk. Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company. During the year the Board continued to revisit its risk identification and 
assessment processes, inviting Board members and senior management to convene and discuss the Company’s key risks and mitigating 
controls. The output from these sessions was a comprehensive Risk Register, explaining the key risks faced by the Company, their potential 
impacts and how these risks are being managed. 
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Company’s system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness. 
To identify and manage key risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has set up a framework 
for reporting and escalating matters of significance, has authorised the Audit Committee to undertake reviews of the effectiveness of 
management actions in addressing key Group risks identified by the Board, has developed a system of regular reports from management 
setting out key performance and risk indicators and has reserved specific, key matters for its decision. This process is designed to provide 
assurance by way of cumulative assessment and is embedded in operational management and governance processes. 
Key elements of the Company’s system of internal control which have operated throughout the year are: 
– a clearly defined organisation structure with established responsibilities; 
– a simple and focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk exposures; 
– Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required 
behaviour; 
– continuous review of operating performance and monitoring of monthly results, annual budgets, and periodic forecasts; 
– a centrally coordinated business assurance programme which uses both internal and external resource to support the Board in its role of 
ensuring a sound control environment. This programme was led by the Business Assurance Director until his departure at the half year. 
Management is currently reviewing an appropriate mix of internal and external resourcing to provide support to this programme in 
FY2014; and 
– completion by business unit management of an annual internal control assessment confirming compliance with Group policies and 
procedures, detailing controls in operation and listing any weaknesses. 
   47
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance framework and believes that it should be 
fully integrated into management structures and systems. Therefore the risk management policies, procedures and monitoring methods 
described above apply equally to the identification, evaluation and control of Volex’s safety, ethical and environmental risks and 
opportunities. This approach ensures that the Company has the necessary and adequate information to identify and assess risks and 
opportunities affecting the Company’s long term value arising from its handling of corporate responsibility and corporate governance 
matters. Further, this approach has enabled the Company to comply with the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of British 
Insurers on socially responsible investment which require listed companies to report to shareholders and give assurance that the Company 
is managing its risks in these matters. 
Whistle blowing policy 
The Company has a whistle blowing policy (‘Right-to-Speak’), which is publicised to employees via email, on the Company’s Intranet website 
and on-site notice Boards. The aim of the policy is to encourage all employees, regardless of seniority, to bring matters that cause them 
concern to the attention of the Audit Committee. 
The executive management team decide on the appropriate method and level of investigation with regard to the Company’s whistle 
blowing policy. The Audit Committee is notified of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of investigations and 
actions taken. The Audit Committee has the power to request further information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional action as it 
sees fit. 
To ensure that the policy is properly understood, training sessions on the policy are held throughout the Group’s locations. Further 
information regarding this policy can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Section on pages 37 and 38. 
Relations with shareholders 
Volex understands the importance of open dialogue with its investors. The Board actively engaged with shareholders throughout the year to 
explain corporate proposals and strategy and solicit their commentary and feedback. Our Executive Directors conducted numerous one-on-
one and group investor meetings to ensure a detailed understanding of the Group’s financial results and factors impacting our Group’s 
performance. Maintaining an open channel for discussion with shareholders through face-to-face dialogue, investor seminars or 
presentations has allowed Volex to better understand the concerns and emerging governance views of our important stakeholders. This 
process alongside efforts from the Chairman and Chief Executive, is the most practical and efficient means of ensuring that the views of 
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. The process has also allowed the Company to better and more pro-actively 
explain the Company strategy and business model to a wider group.  
It is part of the Company’s policy that all Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and the Board encourages all shareholders to attend 
and participate at the AGM to enable it to be a forum for substantive communication with investors. 
What has the Board achieved this year? 
– Continued to review corporate governance process; 
– Actively engaged shareholders in dialogue and consultations; 
– Refreshed the executive team and Board with the addition of a new Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing, a Chief Financial Officer 
and a Chief Operating Officer; 
– Upgraded the Group’s sales organisation and production capabilities; 
– Reduced the Group’s cost base as a platform for future profitable growth; 
– Revamped research, new product development and introduction programmes; 
– Continued the supervision of the implementation of fiduciary training to all management and company subsidiary board members; and 
– Oversaw and approved the acquisition of the active optical cable technology programme. 
  48
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 
Introduction 
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’). The Report also meets the relevant requirements of 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the ‘Code’). A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting. 
The Auditors are required to report to the shareholders on certain sections of this Report and to state whether those sections have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited 
and unaudited information. The audited information commences on page 54. 
Unaudited Information 
Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) during the year were Chris Geoghegan, Chairman of the Committee, 
Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford, all of whom have been determined to be independent Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee. The Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and Group HR Director provide advice to and attend 
meetings of the Committee. No individual is present at discussions regarding his or her own remuneration. The Committee held three 
meetings during the year and the attendance of each member is set out on page 44. 
During the year, the Committee kept itself informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and sought 
advice from its appointed independent external advisers, Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’). During the year, Kepler attended periodic 
Remuneration Committee meetings and provided advice on remuneration for Executives, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy 
and regular market and best practice updates. Kepler reported directly to the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is a signatory to the 
Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants (which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com).  
None of the Committee members have any conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the 
business. The only personal financial interest that any of the Committee members have in the Company, other than as shareholders, is in 
respect of their participation in the Non-Executive LTIS scheme under which one-off awards were made following approval by shareholders 
in December 2008. The performance period corresponding to these awards ended on 25 March 2012. As explained on page 54, two-thirds 
of the original award had vested as at 31 March 2013, with the remaining one-third vesting on 25 March 2014, subject to the award holder 
remaining in office at that date. 
Key activities undertaken during FY2013 
In line with the responsibilities set out in the Committee’s terms of reference the following key issues were discussed during the year: 
– approval of the FY2012 Directors’ remuneration report; 
– review of Performance Share Plan against targets set; 
– evaluation of new Long Term Incentive plan proposals; 
– review of Executive Directors’ shareholdings; 
– consideration of advisory bodies’ and institutional investors’ current guidelines on executive compensation; 
– annual review and ratification of remuneration packages for Directors, incorporating institutional investor feedback; 
– establish targets for FY2013 annual cash bonuses; 
– approval of compromise agreements in relation to Directors; and 
– review and approve remuneration packages and structure for key new hires, appointed as part of the restructuring of the Senior 
Executive team. 
Remuneration policy 
The Committee, together with the Board of Directors of the Company, sets the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and other senior executives within the scope of the Committee remit. In the context of that broad policy for each of the Executive Directors 
and senior executives the Committee then determines and reviews, at least annually, the specific remuneration packages including annual 
bonus plans and awards under the Company’s share incentive arrangements. In addition, the Committee approves the terms of service 
agreements of all Executive Directors and also the terms of appointment of certain senior executives. Termination payments are also 
considered by the Committee, although it is mindful of its duty not to reward failing performance. 
   49
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
This report deals solely with the remuneration and terms of service of the Board of Directors of the Company. The policy of the Committee in 
relation to the Executive Directors is to maintain remuneration packages sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executives of the calibre and 
experience necessary to provide a successful future for the business, within a framework that is aligned with the interests of the Company’s 
shareholders, external stakeholders, and our risk policies and processes. 
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide a balanced remuneration package, with the main components of Executive Director 
remuneration being the following: 
Component Objective Fixed or variable Performance period Current policy 
Basic salary To position the role to be competitive 
with similar roles in comparable 
international manufacturing 
companies  
Fixed Annual Individual pay levels determined by 
reference to performance, responsibility, 
skills and experience in post. Consideration 
given to the wider pay levels and salary 
increases across the Group 
Annual bonus  
scheme 
To incentivise delivery of the Group’s 
annual financial and strategic goals 
Variable Annual Bonus payments are based on the 
achievement of challenging operating profit 
targets. Maximum bonus entitlement set at 
100% of base salary. Bonus paid in cash 
Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) 
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of Executive 
Directors with shareholders 
Variable Three or four  
years 
Annual Performance Share awards are 
normally limited to 100% of base salary per 
annum, except in circumstances in which 
the Committee deems it appropriate to 
exceed this limit. Vesting of awards has 
historically been based on total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’). The performance conditions for 
future awards are currently being reviewed 
Pension and other 
benefits 
To provide competitive benefits in line 
with market practice 
Fixed Ongoing Executive Directors receive a pension 
contribution of 20% of salary, a car 
allowance, private health insurance and 
death in service cover 
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance related and 
that the remuneration package should reward both individual and corporate performance. Short term incentives are linked to challenging 
strategic targets, which support and reinforce the objectives of the Company. Long term share-based awards focus the executives on the 
sustained development of the Group and align their interests with those of the shareholders. 
In deciding and reviewing appropriate remuneration packages, the Committee considers: 
– the positioning of Executive Director pay relative to companies of a similar size and companies operating in a similar sector to Volex; 
– remuneration expectations in the geographical area of operation; 
– surveys published by leading remuneration consultants supplemented by specific advice and benchmarking exercises by external 
consultants and the knowledge and experience of the members of the Committee; 
– the competition, risks, challenges, complexity, diversity and international spread of the Group’s business; 
– the particular expertise and understanding required of the Directors concerned, the responsibilities undertaken and their performance 
and progress in their role in the financial year; and, 
– pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group. 
Kepler Associates was invited to advise the Company in respect of general executive pay trends and specific pay comparators. 
These comparators are derived from companies of similar size and/or industry to Volex and specific comparisons are adjusted for 
market capitalisation and revenue. In addition, in determining increases in Director remuneration for the financial years, the Remuneration 
Committee took into account the relative pay of Executive Directors as compared to other senior and mid-level executives within the 
Company and its affiliates. 
The Committee is currently reviewing the remuneration policy, including the performance condition for new grants under the Performance 
Share Plan having determined that the use of TSR as a single condition is no longer appropriate in the current market environment. 
The Committee intends consulting on its proposals with major shareholders to solicit their views.  
  50
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
Basic salary and benefits 
The Committee determines the Executive Directors’ basic salaries annually, with adjustments normally being made with effect from 1 April 
each year. In reviewing Executive Director base salary levels for FY2013 the Committee considered current market conditions, the Company’s 
performance in FY2012 and FY2013 and the principles applying to decisions on general salary increases across the rest of the organisation. 
Salary increases for Executive Directors and executive team members for FY2013 was generally 3% annualised. Base salaries for FY2013 for 
Executive Directors are shown in the Directors’ emoluments table on page 54. Salary increases for the general workforce are awarded on a 
geographic basis and informed by proprietary pay benchmark data provided by Mercer. These ranged from 3.0% at Head Office in the UK 
to 15% in Vietnam. Overall, the Group average pay increase was approximately 3% annualised. 
In addition to basic salary and pension benefits, the Executive Directors also receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally a car allowance and 
fuel costs, private medical insurance, life assurance and assistance in the cost of relocation where considered appropriate. 
In the event that an Executive Director is required to relocate to another country the Committee may award an expatriation allowance for a 
limited number of years. 
Bonus arrangements 
A discretionary annual cash bonus scheme represents the short term variable incentive element of the overall remuneration package for 
Executive Directors. Under the scheme, Executive Directors can earn up to a maximum of 100% of salary. The Committee establishes the 
objectives that must be met in each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid, reflecting the key financial objectives set by the Board for 
the year in question. The bonus plan for the financial year to 31 March 2013 was structured to reward exemplary Group operating profit 
performance. Disappointing trading performance in FY2013 meant that the Group operating profit target was not met and therefore no 
bonuses were paid to Executive Directors under this scheme in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013. 
Severance pay 
Any severance payments for loss of office are negotiated between the outgoing Director and Volex management before final approval by 
the Remuneration Committee.  
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Following its approval and subsequent amendment by shareholders in December 2008 and October 2010, respectively, the Volex Group plc 
Performance Share Plan 2009 (‘PSP’) is the principal scheme through which the Company provides long term incentive awards to Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. 
The PSP seeks to reward and encourage long term performance by providing incentives linked to the long term performance of the 
Company’s shares. Due to the Committee’s ongoing review of the performance conditions relating to the Performance Share Plan and the 
level of existing awards, only one share award was made during FY2013. This was an award of 300,000 nominal value options with an 
exercise price of 25p to new Executive Director, David McKinney in connection with his joining the Company in June 2012. Annual 
Performance Share awards are normally limited to 100% of base salary per annum, except in circumstances in which the Committee deems 
it appropriate to exceed this limit. As the award was made at a time that the Committee was just beginning its consideration of a new policy 
regarding the issuance of long term incentive plan awards, the Committee granted Mr McKinney a three-year vesting award with conditions 
that tracked the Performance Share Plan awards previously granted to Executive Directors in September 2010, whose awards vested over 
three and four years. As with those previous awards, the sole performance condition of this award was based on a target TSR in order to 
ensure alignment of the interests of all Directors.  
FY2013 PSP awards 
For the award granted to David McKinney under the PSP in FY2013 the Committee determined to use a three-year performance period 
subject to TSR performance targets in line with awards granted to other executives in FY2013, as set out in the table below. 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject 
to award that vest
Less than or equal to 342p Zero
Greater than or equal to 700p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the five dealing days prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period is between the targets set out above, then the percentage of shares which vest will be calculated on a 
straight-line basis. The vesting date for the awards granted in FY2013 is the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award being met, FY2013 PSP awards may be exercised at any time during the seven 
years that follow the vesting date. 
   51
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
FY2012 PSP awards 
The Executive Directors were granted two awards under the PSP in FY2011, a three-year award vesting on the third anniversary of the date of 
grant and a four-year award vesting on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant. Consequently, no PSP awards were made to the 
Executive Directors in FY2012. 
For awards granted to other executives during the financial year ended 1 April 2012, the Committee determined to use three-year 
performance period awards subject to Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance targets, as set out in the table below. In making these 
awards, the Committee believed that TSR was the most appropriate measure of long term performance for the Company under the then-
current circumstances, and provided strong alignment with shareholder interests. 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject 
to award that vest
Less than or equal to 342p Zero
Greater than or equal to 700p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the five dealing days prior to the maturity date) plus any 
dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period is between the targets set out above, then the percentage of shares that vest will be calculated on a straight-
line basis. The vesting date for the awards granted in FY2012 is the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award being met, FY2012 PSP awards may be exercised at any time during the seven 
years that follow the vesting date. 
FY2011 PSP awards 
For PSP awards granted in FY2011, the Committee used a combination of three-year and four-year performance period awards, with both 
awards subject to absolute TSR performance targets, as set out in the tables below.  
FY2011 three-year awards 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject 
to award that vest
Less than or equal to 225p Zero
328p 25%
Greater than or equal to 620p 100%
FY2011 four-year awards 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject 
to award that vest
Less than or equal to 250p Zero
372p 25%
Greater than or equal to 700p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the five dealing days prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period is between the targets set out above, then the percentage of shares that vest will be calculated on a straight-
line basis. 
The vesting date for the three and four-year awards is the third and fourth anniversary of the date of grant respectively. As two awards were 
made under the PSP in FY2011, no PSP award was made to Executive Directors in FY2012. 
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award being met, FY2011 PSP awards may be exercised at any time during the seven 
years that follow the vesting date. 
   52
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
FY2010 PSP awards 
All PSP awards granted during the financial year ended 4 April 2010 had a Performance Period of three years (commencing on the date 
of grant of award) and were subject to a TSR performance target, as shown in the table below: 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject 
to award that vest
Less than or equal to 90p Zero
Greater than or equal to 170p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over the five dealing days prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
TSR on the third anniversary of the date of grant amounted to 254p and therefore the TSR performance target was satisfied in full and all 
FY2010 PSP awards vested in full during FY2013. FY2010 awards of 452,322 shares vested in favour of Ray Walsh and were subsequently 
fully exercised during the year and 305,623 awards vested in favour of former Director Andrew Cherry, which had not been exercised as 
at 31 March 2013. David McKinney and Daniel Abrams did not participate in the FY2010 PSP. 
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award being met, an award may be exercised at any time during the six months that 
follow the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Restricted Scheme 
The Company also operates a Restricted Share Scheme. Any nominated employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may participate 
in the Restricted Scheme. It is intended that the Restricted Scheme will be limited to key executives. An award will take the form of a nil-cost 
option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, granted by the trustee of an employee benefit trust established by the Company. 
No awards were made to Executive Directors under the Restricted Scheme in FY2013. 
Pension arrangements 
The provision of pension benefits for Executive Directors is considered in the context of the overall remuneration package and in the light of 
each executive’s particular circumstances. Ray Walsh and David McKinney are members of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, a 
money purchase scheme, with entitlements to Company contributions of 20% of basic salary. Daniel Abrams receives pension contributions 
of 20% of basic salary from the Company and this is paid into his personal pension plan. It is the policy of the Company that only basic salary 
of the Executive Directors is pensionable. 
Performance graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share Index 
and the FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector, both also measured by TSR. These indices have been selected for this comparison 
because they represent the general and specific markets/sectors in which the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
 
 
  
Volex
Five year total shareholder return
FTSE All Share electronic and electrical equipment FTSE All Share
Mar 08
0
100
200
300
400
500
Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 13 Mar 12 53
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ contracts 
Executive Directors 
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for each Executive Director continue until the Director’s contractual retirement date (or such 
date as agreed between the Director and the Company) unless terminated earlier by either party, subject to the contractual notice period of 
not more than one year. 
Details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Name of Director Term
Effective date of service 
contract or letter of appointment Notice period
Daniel Abrams
1
 Indefinite17.12.2012 6 months
David McKinney
2
 Indefinite02.05.2012 12 months
Ray Walsh Indefinite 06.04.2009 12 months
1. Daniel Abrams was appointed as a Director of the Company on 17 December 2012. 
2. David McKinney was appointed as a Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. 
In accordance with the Company’s policy, the Directors’ contracts do not include any specific provisions relating to compensation in the event 
of termination. In the event of termination of an Executive Director’s service agreement, the Company would give notice to the Executive 
Director and/or make payment in lieu of notice, with due allowance in appropriate circumstances for the Director’s duty to mitigate his loss. 
There were no payments for compensation of loss of office made to any Directors during the year. After the year end a payment for 
compensation of loss of office of £164,328 was made to Andrew Cherry, following the cessation of his directorship on 31 March 2013. 
Ray Walsh’s service agreement provides for a payment for loss of service in the event of a change of control of the Company or similar event. 
This provision expired on 9 March 2012. Executive Directors’ service contracts, which include details of remuneration together with copies of 
the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment, will be available for inspection prior to and at the 2013 AGM. 
Under the Articles of Association of the Company, at each AGM any Director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the 
previous AGM, and any Director then in office who at the date of the notice convening the AGM has (i) been appointed by the Board since 
the previous annual general meeting; or (ii) held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at 
either of them; or (iii) has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or 
more at the date of the meeting, is required to retire from office but is eligible for re-election. At the 2013 AGM, Daniel Abrams will be up for 
re-election. Details of the Directors can be found on page 41 of the Directors’ Report. 
External appointments 
Ray Walsh and David McKinney do not hold any external Director appointments. 
Daniel Abrams is a Director of BioCity Nottingham Limited and Vincennes Limited.  
Non-Executive Directors 
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement. The Company’s policy for Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, is 
to have contracts for services, documented in a Letter of Appointment. These Letters of Appointment were renewed during the year and new 
rolling agreements were entered into, which remain in force until terminated by either party. 
Details of the Non-Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Name of Director 
Effective date of service 
Notice period
Non-Executive Directors  
Richard Arkle 26.04.2012 3 months
Chris Geoghegan 26.04.2012 3 months
Mike McTighe 26.04.2012 3 months
Paul Mountford
1
 03.12.2010 3 months
Karen Slatford 26.04.2012 3 months
1. Paul Mountford resigned from his role as Non-Executive Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. By mutual agreement, he was not paid any termination amounts. 
The fee paid to each Non-Executive Director in the year is set out in the table on page 54. The fee payable to the Company Chairman is 
reviewed and determined annually by members of the Committee (excluding the Company Chairman) following consultation with the Group 
Chief Executive and assisted by market data provided by Kepler Associates. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company within the limits set out in the Articles of Association. 
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in the PSP or the Restricted Scheme and are not eligible to join the Company’s pension scheme. 
contract or letter of appointment  54
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) 
The LTIS was approved by shareholders in 2008 when it was considered imperative by the Directors that the Non-Executive Directors be 
incentivised to return cash to shareholders over the three-year period to 25 March 2012. Decisions on the LTIS are made by the Executive 
Directors of the Board. 
The terms of the LTIS were amended during FY2011, following approval by the shareholders in October 2010, such that the number of LTIS 
awards receivable by each eligible Non-Executive is calculated as an option over a number of units based on the Average Value Attained
1
 
at the end of the three-year period to 25 March 2012, subject to the Non-Executive Director remaining in office. 
Subject to the achievement of the Average Value Attained target and the award holder remaining in office at the relevant date, awards vest 
in three equal tranches on 25 March in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014. Assuming these conditions have been satisfied, awards may be 
exercised at any time during the period commencing 21 days after the vesting date (of that tranche) until the fifth anniversary of the vesting 
date (of that tranche). The amendments made in 2010 allow the Company to satisfy the LTIS award in either Company shares or cash. 
The number of units awarded under the LTIS was 800,000 units and the Average Value Attained at 25 March 2012 amounted to 264.7p, in 
excess of the 250p threshold at which 100% of LTIS awards vest, and all three eligible Non-Executive Directors were still in office at that date. 
Accordingly 533,333 units (two-thirds of the total 800,000 units) had vested as at 31 March 2013. Each holder is now entitled to exercise two-
thirds of the number of units held by the holder. At the date of this report, none of the Non-Executive Directors had exercised any portion of 
their award. The remaining tranche of 266,667 units will vest on 25 March 2014, and each award holder will be entitled to exercise the final 
third of the award number on that date, subject to the award holders remaining as Directors as that date. 
Awards held by Non-Executive Directors under the LTIS are shown on page 55 of this report. The Board intends that no further awards will be 
made under the LTIS. 
The market price of Volex plc shares, to which the PSP and LTIS awards relate, at 31 March 2013 was 102.75p. The highest and lowest market 
prices of the shares during FY2013 was 274.0p and 84.0p respectively.  
1. Average Value Attained is defined as the average price per ordinary share in the Company on 25 March 2012 averaged over a period of 20 dealing days preceding 
that date, plus dividends paid in the three years preceding that (or, if the shares are ex-dividend on 25 March 2012, the corresponding dividend declared). 
Audited Information 
Directors’ emoluments 
Details of the emoluments of those Directors who were in office during the financial period ended 31 March 2013 are set out below: 
Fees/basic 
salary 
£
Benefits 
in kind 
£
Annual 
bonuses 
£
 
Severance 
£ 
2013 
Total 
£
2012 
Total 
£
Executive Directors  
Daniel Abrams
1
 70,1544,428–– 74,582 –
Andrew Cherry
2
 248,57115,438–164,328 428,337 259,590
David McKinney
3
 221,46912,421–– 233,890 –
Ray Walsh
4
 391,77253,770–– 445,542 427,459
  
Non-Executive Directors  
Richard Arkle
5
 35,000––– 35,000 35,000
Chris Geoghegan
6
 35,000––– 35,000 35,000
Mike McTighe 125,000 – – – 125,000 125,000
Paul Mountford
7
 –––– – 30,000
Karen Slatford
8
 57,103––– 57,103 30,000
 1,184,06986,057–164,328 1,434,454 942,049
1. Daniel Abrams was appointed a Director of the Company on 17 December 2012. 
2. Andrew Cherry ceased to be a Director of the Company on 31 March 2013. 
3. David McKinney was appointed a Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. 
4. Included in Ray Walsh’s benefits-in-kind is £28,354 received as a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution. 
5. For his services as a Non-Executive Director Richard Arkle receives an annual fee of £35,000, comprising a Non-Executive Director fee of £30,000 and an additional 
£5,000 for chairing the Audit Committee. 
6. As the Board’s Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chris Geoghegan receives an annual fee of £35,000, which includes a fee of £5,000 for chairing the 
Remuneration Committee. 
7. Paul Mountford resigned on 2 May 2012. 
8. Karen Slatford was appointed Deputy Chairperson on 14 December 2012. Accordingly, her annual fee was increased to £70,000 from this date.  55
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
The Directors do not receive general expense allowances but are reimbursed specific reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the 
Company’s business.  
Andrew Cherry received £164,328 as part of a compromise agreement following his departure on 31 March 2013.  
No payments of any kind were made to former Directors during the year. 
Directors’ interest in Long Term Incentive Scheme 
Details of the Directors’ interest in Long Term Incentive Schemes are set out below: 
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
 
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options held 
at 2 April 2012
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
granted during 
FY2013
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
exercised during 
FY2013 
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
lapsed during 
FY2013 
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options held 
at 31 March 2013
Exercise price of 
shares subject to 
PSP options (£)
Daniel Abrams
1
 ––– – – –
Andrew Cherry
2
  905,623 – – (341,667) 563,956 0.25
David McKinney
3
 –300,000– – 300,000 0.25
Ray Walsh 1,252,322 – (452,322) – 800,000 0.25
1. Daniel Abrams was appointed a Director of the Company on 17 December 2012. 
2. Andrew Cherry ceased to be a Director of the Company on 31 March 2013. 
3. David McKinney was appointed a Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. 
305,623 PSP awards held by Andrew Cherry and 452,322 PSP awards held by Ray Walsh vested on 7 September 2012. In order to comply 
with section 409A of the United States Internal Revenue Code, Ray Walsh, a US taxpayer, exercised his vested award in full on 30 November 
2012. The exercise price of the award was 25p per share and the market price of Volex plc shares at the date of exercise was £1.465. 
Under the terms of Andrew Cherry’s compromise agreement, the 305,623 PSP awards that have vested remain exercisable until 31 March 
2014. The remaining options outstanding at 31 March 2013 vest on 31 August 2013, subject to achievement of performance conditions. 
The date of the FY2013 grant of shares subject to PSP options was 28 June 2012. The market price of the shares subject to PSP options on this 
date was £2.53.  
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) 
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in the LTIS are as follows: 
Number of 
Award units at 
2 April 2012
Number of 
award units 
granted during 
FY2013 
Number of 
award units 
lapsed during 
FY2013 
Number of 
award units at 
31 March 2013
% interest in 
Award units at 31 
March 2013
Chris Geoghegan 80,000 – – 80,000 10%
Mike McTighe 640,000 – – 640,000 80%
Karen Slatford 80,000 – – 80,000 10%
Total units in Bonus Pool 800,000  800,000
Details of the LTIS, including explanation of the vesting of the first two tranches of the award, representing two-thirds of each Non-Executive 
Director’s LTIS interest, are set out on page 54 of this Remuneration Report. 
Directors’ pension entitlements 
Pension contributions in respect of Directors payable by the Group during the year were as follows: 
 
2013
£
2012
£
Daniel Abrams
1
 14,031 –
Andrew Cherry
2
 68,002 61,118
David McKinney
3
 59,886 –
Ray Walsh
4
 50,000 54,182
1. Daniel Abrams was appointed a Director of the Company on 17 December 2012 and has received contributions of 20% from the Company paid into his personal 
pension plan since that date.  
2. Andrew Cherry was a member of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, to which the Company made a contribution of 20%. Andrew ceased to be a Director of the 
Company on 31 March 2013. 
3. David McKinney was appointed a Director of the Company on 2 May 2012 and joined the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan on that date, to which the Company 
makes a contribution of 20%. 
4. Ray Walsh is a member of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, to which the Company makes a contribution of 20%. Ray elected to take £28,354 of his pension 
entitlement as a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution and this cash payment is reflected in the table of Directors’ emoluments on page 54. 56
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
Directors’ interest in shares of the Company 
The interests in the share capital of the Company of those Directors who were in office at 31 March 2013, together with their interests at 
1 April 2012, or date of appointment if later, are detailed below. The table details separately beneficial interest and share options issued 
to the Directors (both prior to and upon their appointment), under the PSP and the LTIS. All interests relate solely to 25p Ordinary shares. 
Shares held at 
31 March 2013
Shares held at 
1 April 2012
PSP awards at 
31 March 2013
PSP awards at 
1 April 2012 
LTIS awards at 
31 March 2013
LTIS awards at 
1 April 2012
Daniel Abrams 71,849 – – – – –
Richard Arkle 184,000 184,000 – – – –
Chris Geoghegan 30,000 – – – 80,000 80,000
David McKinney 4,220 – 300,000 – – –
Mike McTighe 117,000 107,000 – – 640,000 640,000
Karen Slatford 30,000 – – – 80,000 80,000
Ray Walsh 250,000 57,000 800,000 1,252,322 – –
There have been no changes to the Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2013 and the date of this report. 
Directors’ interest in transactions with related parties 
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or with any other related party. 
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 May 2013. 
Chris Geoghegan 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
27 May 2013
 
  57
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ report 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the Company and parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Company and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. Under Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 
for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
– state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business. 
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They have general responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement 
that comply with applicable law and regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the section of Board of Directors on page 40 and 41, confirm that, to the best 
of their knowledge: 
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 
– the business review, contained in the Directors’ Report and the operating and financial review section in this 2013 Annual Report and 
Accounts, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; 
– so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware;  
– each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information; and 
– The Directors consider the report and accounts as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, in a format to provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance and strategy. 
By order of the Board 
Ray Walsh Daniel Abrams 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
27 May 2013 27 May 2013  58
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ report 
continued 
The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Company together with the audited financial statements and independent 
auditors’ report for the financial year ended 31 March 2013. 
Principal activities and business review 
Volex plc is a leading global provider of customised electrical and optical interconnect solutions and provides global support to leading 
producers of consumer products, telecommunication systems, networking devices, medical equipment and other industrial products. 
The Company operates through overseas subsidiary companies in Asia, Europe, North and South America. The subsidiary undertakings 
principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Company in the year are listed on page 111. 
A review of the development and performance of the business of the Company, including the financial performance during the year, the key 
performance indicators focused on and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, can be found on pages 32 
to 36 and also the Corporate Responsibility Statement which can be found on pages 37 and 38. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Included on pages 32 to 36 is an outline of the principal risks facing the Company. Given the current economic circumstances and the 
guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, additional disclosures are included in note 2 to the Financial Statements regarding the 
basis on which the Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 
Dividend 
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.0 cents per share be paid to the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members 
of the Company at the close of business on 6 September 2013, or the record date. After taking into account the 2.0 cents per share paid as 
an interim dividend to shareholders, the total dividend payable in respect of FY2013 is 5.0 cents. (FY2012: 4.5 cents).  
Shareholders will continue to have the option to receive this dividend in either USD or GBP with the Company’s Registrars providing 
a currency election facility. Any election made by shareholders for the FY2013 interim dividend will continue in force unless rescinded. 
Shareholders who prefer to receive their dividend in USD must make their election to receive their dividend in USD by 5 p.m. on 26 September 
2013. If no election is made, the dividend will be paid in GBP, the default currency for the dividend, with the GBP amount payable calculated 
by reference to the GBP:USD exchange rate prevailing at the record date. If you hold your ordinary shares in certificated form, you may only 
elect to receive your dividend in US dollars by signing and returning a currency election form, available from Capita Registrars Limited, 
Corporate Actions, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. If you hold your ordinary shares in uncertificated form, to 
elect to receive your dividend in US dollars you must input a valid Dividend Election Input Message, in accordance with the CREST procedures 
described in the CREST manual. Partial elections will not be permitted. 
The Company will be communicating separately with all shareholders, to provide more details and instructions for use of this currency 
election facility. 
At the Company’s forthcoming AGM, the Directors are proposing to offer an optional scrip dividend alternative scheme to shareholders (the 
‘Scrip Dividend Scheme’). The Scrip Dividend Scheme will give shareholders the right to elect to receive new Ordinary shares in the Company 
(credited as fully paid) instead of future cash dividends when a scrip dividend alternative is offered. The Scrip Dividend Scheme will apply to 
the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013, although those shareholders that do not want to join the Scrip Dividend Scheme may 
nonetheless elect for a scrip dividend in respect of just the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 only. At the Directors’ discretion, 
the Scrip Dividend Scheme may also be offered in respect of any future final or interim dividends. 
If approved, the Scrip Dividend Scheme would be effective for a period of five years, to expire on 21 July 2018. Unless circumstances change, 
the Directors would expect to renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018. 
Financing and Financial Risk 
On 31 May 2011 the Company refinanced its borrowing facilities by signing and entering into a new four year $75m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility agreement with Lloyds, HSBC and Clydesdale banks. Further details of this new financing facility are given in note 19 to 
the accounts. 
The Company remained focused on effective financial risk management and made significant progress in the year in extending its 
commodity hedging programme to protect the Company’s margins and profits from the impact of commodity (particularly copper) 
price volatility. 
The Company’s financial risk management objectives and exposure of the Company to customer concentration, commodity price 
fluctuations, foreign exchange rates, pricing, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks is set out in note 32 to the accounts and in the Managing 
Group Risk section on pages 32 to 36. 
   59
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
Research and development 
The Company’s research and development activities are focused on driving innovation throughout its product portfolio, to enable it to deliver 
new or enhanced customer-specific connection solutions. For example, we have developed prototype cable assemblies and connectors for 
a specific type of high speed copper solution. We have continued to recruit design and development expertise to drive these activities and to 
build a forward-looking industry expertise that enables us to engage effectively in industry standards bodies and positions the Company well 
with customers for next-generation interconnect products and technologies. 
Continuous improvement 
The Company has continued to embed a range of management tools to promote a culture of continuous improvement across all our 
functions. In our manufacturing operations further LEAN management techniques have been incorporated to provide additional production 
efficiencies, while improved engagement with customers and suppliers has delivered benefits in our sales and supply chain functions. 
Furthermore the Company has recognised the critical importance of corporate culture to underpin the continuing transformation of Volex. 
The Company is continuing its culture transformation programme which is being implemented throughout the Company. In addition to 
helping Volex transform itself into a customer-focused and innovation driven organisation, this culture programme is intended to provide a 
more rewarding work environment for our employees. 
Share capital 
As at 31 March 2013, the Company’s total issued share capital comprised 62,493,578 Ordinary shares of 25p each.  
Included in the 62,493,578 ordinary shares of 25p are 5,055,598 (FY2012: 5,871,815) ordinary shares held by the Volex Employee Share Trust 
and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust as Treasury shares to satisfy the potential future vesting of long term incentive awards held by 
certain Directors and key management. During the year 816,217 (FY2012: 570,000) treasury shares were utilised by the Volex Employee Share 
Trust to satisfy the vesting of such awards. Further details of the employee share schemes can be found in the Remuneration Committee 
Report on pages 50 to 52.  
The ordinary shares carry no right to a fixed income and each Ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. Details of the Company’s share capital can be found in note 24 to the accounts. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of 
the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special rights or control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
The Directors have the authority (on the terms set out in the Notice to the FY2013 Annual General Meeting): (i) to allot shares representing 
two-thirds of the issued share capital of the Company and (ii) to disapply statutory pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares representing 
not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company. These authorities are renewed annually at the Annual General Meeting. The 
Company also has authority, renewed annually, to purchase not more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company. Any shares 
purchased will either be cancelled, and the number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held in Treasury. The Directors will 
be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary shares at the 2013 AGM. 
Cautionary statement 
The purpose of the Annual Report is for the Company to provide information to its members. The Annual Report contains certain forward-
looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Company. By their nature these statements 
involve uncertainty, since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated. Nothing in 
this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
  60
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ report 
continued 
Summary review of operations 
 
2013 
$’000
2012
 $’000
Normalised operating profit (before non-recurring items and share-based payments) 12,342 32,004
Non-recurring Items (7,966) (4,990)
Share-based payments charge (181) (3,976)
Operating profit 4,195 23,038
Finance income 141 73
Financing costs (2,410) (3,900)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,926 19,211
Taxation (2,813) (2,029)
Profit for the period, being the retained profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent (887) 17,182
Net assets employed by the Company were: 
 
2013 
$’000
2012 
$’000
Non-current assets 52,107 31,645
Other assets and liabilities 13,039 16,024
 65,146 47,669
Net cash/(debt) (19,500) 3,643
Net assets 45,646 51,312
Gearing
1
 43% (7%)
1. Net debt divided by net assets. 
 
Directors and their interests 
(a) Directors 
The Directors who served during the year were as follows: 
Richard Arkle, Non-Executive Director 
Chris Geoghegan, Senior Independent Director 
Mike McTighe, Chairman 
Paul Mountford, Non-Executive Director * 
Karen Slatford, Non-Executive Director 
Ray Walsh, Chief Executive Officer 
David McKinney, Chief Operating Officer 
Andrew Cherry, former Chief Financial Officer** 
Daniel Abrams, Chief Financial Officer 
On 17 December 2012, Daniel Abrams was appointed to the Executive Director position of Chief Financial Officer.  
Karen Slatford was appointed as Deputy Chair on 14 December 2012.  
Subsequent to 31 March 2013, Christoph Eisenhardt has been announced as the new Chief Executive Officer of the Group, succeeding Ray 
Walsh effective 1 July 2013.  
There have been no other changes to the Board since the end of the financial year. Biographical details of the current Directors can be found 
on pages 40 and 41. 
* Paul Mountford served until May 2012 
**Andrew Cherry served until 31 March 2013 
   61
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
(b) Election of Directors 
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company, Mike McTighe, Richard Arkle, Daniel Abrams and Christoph 
Eisenhardt will retire at the 2013 AGM and being eligible, offer themselves for election by the shareholders.  
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for each Executive Director continue for an indefinite term until such date as agreed between 
the Director and the Company or terminated earlier by either party. 
(c) Directors’ interests and remuneration 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the share capital of the Company are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 48 to 56. 
(d) Third party indemnities 
The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to the Directors, which remain in force, copies of which will be available for 
inspection at the forthcoming AGM. In addition, the Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to Directors of the Company’s 
associated companies, which remain in force. 
Substantial shareholdings 
Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, issued by the Financial Services Authority, the major shareholders of the Company are 
as follows: 
Number of  
Ordinary shares 
Percentage
held
1
NR Holdings Ltd 14,855,000 23.77%
GoldenPeaks Active Value Master Fund  11,721,991 18.76%
Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust 4,050,598 6.48%
Artemis Intertrade (via Neue Helvetische Bank) 2,204,419 3.53%
M&G Investment Management 2,099,936 3.36%
Legal & General Investment Management 1,952,300 3.12%
Bank Vontobel 1,906,452 3.05%
1.  Percentage calculated on the total number of Ordinary and preference shares outstanding at the date of this report, which is 62,493,578. 
Restrictions on voting rights  
Volex’s Articles of Association provide that voting on resolutions at a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is 
demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by those members entitled under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to demand a poll. 
Subject to the following paragraph, on a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy, shall have one vote and, on a 
poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy, shall have one vote for every share in the capital of Volex. 
Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The Directors may appoint any person to be a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director provided the total number of 
Directors does not at any time exceed 15. In addition, provided the procedural requirements prescribed in Volex’s Articles of Association are 
followed, Volex may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a Director of Volex either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. 
At each AGM, all Directors who (i) were appointed by the Board since the last AGM, (ii) were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM 
held in the second calendar year before the current year or (iii) have held office (other than employment or executive office) for a continuous 
period of nine years or more, shall automatically retire. 
At the meeting at which a Director retires, the members may pass an ordinary resolution to fill the office being vacated by electing the retiring 
Director or some other person eligible for appointment to that office. In default, the retiring Director shall be deemed to be elected or re-
elected (as the case may be) unless (i) it is expressly resolved at the meeting not to fill the vacated office or the resolution for such election 
or re-election is put to the meeting and lost, or (ii) such Director has given notice that he or she is unwilling to be elected or re-elected, or (iii) 
the procedural requirements prescribed in Volex’s Articles of Association are contravened. 
As set out in the Articles of Association there are circumstances where a Director will immediately cease to hold office. These circumstances 
include where he or she is prohibited by law from being or acting as a Director, where a Director has been made bankrupt or is where he or 
she is unable to perform their duties through long term ill health. 
   62
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Directors’ report 
continued 
Charitable and political contributions 
It is the Company’s policy not to make political donations or donations to UK charitable organisations, accordingly there were no political 
donations or charitable donations made during the year. 
Amending Volex’s Articles of Association 
The Companies Act 2006 requires that any alteration to Volex’s Articles of Association must be approved by a special resolution of the 
shareholders. 
Director’s powers 
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Volex subject to any restrictions in Volex’s Articles of Association, the Companies 
Act 2006 and any special resolution. 
Under Volex’s Articles of Association, a Director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person connected with 
the Director, has an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of Volex other than by virtue of the Director’s (or their connected 
persons) interest in Volex’s shares or other securities. However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions (i) giving the Director 
any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of money lent or obligations incurred by him or any other person at the request of or for the 
benefit of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings, (ii) giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of a debt or 
obligation of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings for which the Director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee 
or by the giving of security, (iii) granting the Director an indemnity or provision of funding in relation to liabilities incurred by him in the 
execution and discharge of his duties, powers or office as a Director of any member of the Group, (iv) relating to an offer for subscription or 
purchase of securities of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings in which the Director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of 
securities or as a underwriter or sub-underwriter, (v) concerning any other company in which the Director (together with any connected 
person) is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the Director (together with any connected person) is not 
interested in 1% or more of any class of equity share capital of such company or the voting rights available to the shareholders of such 
company, (vi) relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees, or (vii) 
relating to any insurance that Volex purchases or maintains for the benefit of its Directors or persons including its Directors. The Board 
considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective. 
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Volex to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of 
all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the aggregate of the 
Group’s share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the Volex Articles of Association unless sanctioned by an ordinary 
resolution of Volex’s shareholders. 
Volex can make market purchases of its own shares provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and subject to and 
in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Significant agreements 
The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility in which the counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the agreement where 
there has been a change of control of the Company. 
Details of the Directors’ service contracts can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 53. 
Supplier payment policy 
The Group’s policy is to pay suppliers on settlement terms agreed with each supplier. The total amount of Group trade payables falling due 
within one year at 31 March 2013 represents 82 days’ worth (2012: 90 days), as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during 
the year ended on that date. 
   63
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
Audit and auditors 
In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee as disclosed on pages 45 and 46 and section 489 of the Companies Act 
2006, a resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain a qualifying third party indemnity provision (as per the Companies Act 2006) that provides 
that the Company may pay for Directors’ indemnities out of its own assets. The Company has procured Directors’ and Officers’ insurance 
for this purpose. 
AGM 
The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders. The 2013 AGM of the Company 
will be held on 22 July 2013. The Notice of Meeting will be sent out in a separate document to this report, and is also available on the 
Company’s website. 
The meeting will consider items to be passed as ordinary or special resolutions. In accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code 
provision E2.1, each resolution will be proposed as a separate resolution. 
By order of the Board. 
 
Matt Nydell 
Company Secretary 
27 May 2013  64
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance
Independent auditor’s report 
To the members of Volex plc 
 
We have audited the financial statements of Volex plc for the 52 week period ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated 
income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company statement of financial position, 
the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows and the related 
notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 57, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion:  
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2013 
and of the Group’s loss and the Group’s and parent Company’s cash flows for the 52 week period then ended; 
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
– the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006  
In our opinion:  
– the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
– the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
– the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 42 to 47 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
  65
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
 
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or  
– the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or  
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
– the Directors’ statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern; 
– the parts of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and 
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
 
Darryl Phillips  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
27 May 2013  66
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Consolidated income statement  
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
 Notes
Group 
2013 2012
Before 
non-recurring 
items and 
share-based 
payments
$’000
Non-recurring
Items and
share-based 
payments
$’000
Total
$’000
Before 
non-recurring  
items and 
share-based  
payments 
$’000 
Non-recurring 
Items and
share-based 
payments
$’000
Total
$’000
 
Revenue 3 473,154 – 473,154517,769 –517,769
Cost of sales (387,879) (2,104) (389,983) (415,250) (4,990) (420,240)
Gross profit 85,275 (2,104) 83,171 102,519 (4,990) 97,529
Operating expenses (72,933) (6,043) (78,976) (70,515) (3,976) (74,491)
Operating profit/(loss) 12,342 (8,147) 4,195 32,004 (8,966) 23,038
Finance income 5 141 – 141 73 – 73
Finance costs 6 (2,410) – (2,410) (3,900) – (3,900)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 10,073 (8,147) 1,926 28,177 (8,966) 19,211
Taxation 10 (3,605) 792 (2,813) (3,445) 1,416 (2,029)
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to the 
owners of the parent 7 6,468 (7,355) (887) 24,732 (7,550) 17,182
Earnings/(loss) per share (cents)  
Basic  12 11.4 (1.6)43.7 30.4
Diluted 12 11.2 (1.5)42.4 29.4 67
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
 Notes 
Group 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000 
Profit/(loss) for the period  (887) 17,182
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Gain/(loss) on hedge of net investment taken to equity  (2,256) (479)
Gain/(loss) arising on cash flow hedges during the period  (1,868) 1,295
Exchange gain/(loss) on translation of foreign operations  1,823 (886)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes 31 (755) (1,828)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss)  (3,056) (1,898)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  – –
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period  (3,056) (1,898)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period attributable to the owners of the parent (3,943) 15,284 68
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Consolidated and Company statement  
of financial position  
As at 31 March 2013 (1 April 2012) 
Notes
Group  Company 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 13 2,932 3,085  – –
Other intangible assets 14 4,147 2,897  1,932 1,955
Property, plant and equipment 15 39,691 20,022  438 426
Investments 16 – –  151,275 153,197
Other receivables 18 605 543  – 320
Deferred tax asset 22 4,732 5,098  2,021 2,024
 
52,107 31,645  155,666 157,922
Current assets   
Inventories 17 43,016 49,790  2,348 3,062
Trade receivables 18 73,026 90,612  2,873 3,349
Other receivables 18 10,829 15,092  31,534 57,061
Current tax assets 1,414 703  – –
Derivative financial instruments 32 – 1,453  – 1,453
Cash and bank balances 28 25,044 43,578  – –
 
153,329 201,228  36,755 64,925
Total assets 205,436 232,873  192,421 222,847
Current liabilities   
Borrowings 19 1,255 2,398  10,249 12,572
Obligations under finance leases 20 – 117  – 117
Trade payables 21 73,184 88,551  1,705 1,547
Other payables 21 24,880 34,574  30,822 44,779
Current tax liabilities 5,924 5,938  – –
Retirement benefit obligation 31 585 596  585 596
Provisions 23 2,266 1,078  1,773 832
Derivative financial instruments 32 399 54  399 34
 
108,493 133,306  45,533 60,477
Net current assets/(liabilities) 44,836 67,922  (8,778) 4,448
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 19 43,289 37,420  29,192 22,757
Other payables 21 575 706  56,205 58,938
Deferred tax liabilities 22 1,789 2,563  – –
Retirement benefit obligation 31 3,039 2,976  3,039 2,976
Provisions 23 2,605 4,590  2,553 4,540
 51,297 48,255  90,989 89,211
Total liabilities 159,790 181,561  136,522 149,688
Net assets 45,646 51,312  55,899 73,159
Equity attributable to owners of the parent   
Share capital 24 28,180 28,180  28,180 28,180
Share premium account 2,586 2,586  2,586 2,586
Hedging and translation reserve (6,553) (4,252)  (10,836) (8,263)
Own shares 26 (4,945) (5,271)  – –
Merger reserve – –  15,540 15,540
Retained earnings 26,378 30,069  20,429 35,116
Total equity 45,646 51,312  55,899 73,159
The financial statements on pages 66 to 110 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 May 2013. 
They were signed on its behalf by: 
  
Ray Walsh Daniel Abrams 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
Volex plc Company Number: 158956  69
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated and Company statement  
of changes in equity 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
Group 
Share 
capital 
$’000
Share 
premium 
account 
$’000
Hedging and 
translation 
reserve 
$’000
Own  
shares  
$’000 
Merger  
reserve  
$’000 
Retained 
earnings/
(losses) 
$’000
Total equity
 $’000
Balance at 3 April 2011  28,180 2,586 (4,182) (2,240) – 13,94238,286
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable  
to the owners of the parent –––– – 17,182 17,182
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (70) – – (1,828) (1,898)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (70) – – 15,354 15,284
Dividends –––– – (2,712)(2,712)
Own shares acquired in the period – – – (3,031) – – (3,031)
Reserve entry for share option charge –––– – 3,485 3,485
Balance at 1 April 2012 28,180 2,586 (4,252) (5,271) – 30,069 51,312
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable  
to the owners of the parent –––– – (887) (887)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – –(2,301) – – (755)(3,056)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (2,301) – – (1,642) (3,943)
Dividends –––– – (2,813)(2,813)
Own shares utilised in the period – – – 326 – 33 359
Reserve entry for share option charge –––– – 731 731
Balance at 31 March 2013 28,180 2,586 (6,553) (4,945) – 26,378 45,646
 
Company 
Share 
capital
 $’000
Share 
premium 
account 
$’000
Hedging and 
translation 
reserve 
$’000
Own  
shares  
$’000 
Merger  
reserve  
$’000 
Retained 
earnings/ 
(losses)
 $’000
Total equity 
$’000
Balance at 3 April 2011  28,180 2,586 (8,050) – 15,540 34,917 73,173
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable  
to the owners of the parent –––– – 1,254 1,254
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (213) – – (1,828) (2,041)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (213) – – (574) (787)
Issue of share capital –––– – (2,712) (2,712)
Dividends –––– – 
Reserve entry for share option charge –––– – 3,485 3,485
Balance at 1 April 2012 28,180 2,586 (8,263) – 15,540 35,116 73,159
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable 
to the owners of the parent –––– – (11,850) (11,850)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – –(2,573) – – (755)(3,328)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (2,573) – – (12,605) (15,178)
Dividends –––– – (2,813)(2,813)
Reserve entry for share option charge –––– – 731 731
Balance at 31 March 2013 28,180 2,586 (10,836) – 15,540 20,429 55,899
  70
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Consolidated and Company statement  
of cash flows 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
Notes
Group 
 
Company 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  28 6,365 30,353  1,540 (19,014)
   
Cash flow generated from/(used in) investing activities    
Interest received 5 141 73  – –
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment  263 79  16 –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  15 (24,860) (10,263)  (306) (399)
Purchases of intangible assets  14 (2,567) (1,986)  (778) (738)
Acquisition of own shares (net of funds received on option exercise) 359 (3,031)  – –
Net cash outflow arising on disposal of operations – –  – –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) on intercompany funding – –  (1,331) (8,357)
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  (26,664) (15,128)  (2,399) (9,494)
   
Cash flows before financing activities (20,299) 15,225  (859) (28,508)
Cash generated/(used) before non-recurring items (13,405) 19,932  1,623 (28,508)
Cash utilised in respect of non-recurring items (6,894) (4,707)  (2,482) –
   
Cash flow generated from/(used in) financing activities   
Dividends paid 11 (2,813) (2,712)  (2,813) (2,712)
Repayment of preference shares 25 – (130)  – (130)
Refinancing costs paid 27 – (1,655)  – (1,655)
Repayment of borrowings  27 – (26,377)  – (7,300)
New bank loans raised 27 6,000 39,544  6,000 24,000
Repayments of obligations under finance leases 20 (117) (181)  (117) (181)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities  3,070 8,489  3,070 12,022
   
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (17,229) 23,714  2,211 (16,486)
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  27 41,180 18,525  (12,572) 4,086
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  27 (162) (1,059)  112 (172)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  27 23,789 41,180  (10,249) (12,572)
  71
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the financial statements 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
1. Presentation of financial statements 
Volex plc (‘the Company’ and together with its subsidiaries ‘the Group’) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is given on the inside 
back cover. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 38. 
Financial statements are prepared for the period ending on the Sunday following the Friday that falls closest to the accounting reference date 
of 31 March each year. 
These financial statements are presented in US Dollars (‘USD’) as it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
group operates.  
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the parent company 
statement of comprehensive income (and separate income statement). The loss for the parent company for the period was $11,850,000 
(2012: profit of $1,254,000). 
2. Significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (‘IFRSs as adopted by the EU’), International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) Interpretations and the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of financial instruments. 
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period. Their adoption has not had 
any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions 
and arrangements.  
– IFRS 7 (amended) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
– IAS 12 (amended) ‘Income Taxes’  
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Directors do not expect 
that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
– IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IAS 1 (amendment) ‘Financial Statement Presentation’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IAS 27 (revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IAS 28 (revised) ‘Associates and Joint Ventures’ effective for period ended 30 March 2014 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Group is currently 
reviewing these standards to determine the likely impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
– IFRS 7 (amendment) ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – effective for period ending 3 April 2016 
– IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’– effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee Benefits’ – effective for period ending 30 March 2014 
– IAS 32 (amended) ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’ – effective for period ending 5 April 2015  72
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of Volex plc incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities which it controls (its 
subsidiaries), (together the ‘Group’), and are drawn up to the relevant period end date. Control is achieved where the Company has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to be able to obtain benefits from its activities. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. 
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in the 
Business Review on pages 10 to 38. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Finance Review on pages 26 to 31. In addition Note 32 to the financial statements includes the Group objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk. 
As highlighted in Note 19 to the financial statements, the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through a $75 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) with a syndicate of three banks. The principal terms of this financing facility are given in Note 19. The 
facility requires the Group to perform quarterly financial covenant calculations with respect to leverage (adjusted net debt to adjusted rolling 
12 month EBITDA) and interest cover (adjusted rolling 12 month EBITDA to adjusted rolling 12 month interest). Breach of these covenants could 
result in cancellation of the facility. 
The Group’s forecast and projections, taking reasonable account of possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should 
operate within the level of the contracted and committed facility for the foreseeable future and should comply with covenants over this 
period. The Group has access to additional undrawn committed facilities together with long established contracts with a number of 
customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries. Further the Group has a number of mitigating actions available 
to it, should actual performance fall below the forecast and projections. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed 
to manage its business within its covenants despite the ongoing uncertain economic outlook. 
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Business combinations 
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The consideration for each acquisition 
is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the identifiable net assets 
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement 
as incurred. 
Where the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, it is 
measured at its acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they 
qualify as measurement period adjustments. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity 
are not recognised. 
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
In the Company statement of financial position, investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. 
The excess of fair value over the nominal value of shares issued in consideration for investments in which ownership exceeds 90% 
is recorded in the Company’s merger reserve. 
Foreign currency translation 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in USD, which is the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each reporting date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items that 
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
  73
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for: 
– Exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/hedge 
accounting); and 
– Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor 
likely to occur and which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve 
and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The principal balances on which these exchange differences arise are 
treated as quasi-equity. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, 
unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from third parties for goods and services provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes. 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
– significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer determined with reference to the specific contract in place; 
– the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; 
– it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group; and 
– the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. 
Revenue from the provision of engineering services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contracted services. 
Interest income is accrued on a timely basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment has been established. 
Taxation 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in other comprehensive income. 
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
   74
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on 
a net basis. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses represents an excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired at the date of acquisition and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-
generating units. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the 
other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. The impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in profit and loss and is not reversed in subsequent periods. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts. Goodwill arising 
on acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off to reserves and has not been reinstated in the statement of financial position and 
will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and any further costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, as follows:  
Long leasehold buildings up to 50 years or period of lease, if shorter 
Plant and machinery up to 15 years 
Freehold land is not depreciated. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. 
Intangible assets – computer software and licences 
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Acquired computer software 
licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and use the specific software. These costs are included in the statement 
of financial position within intangible assets and are amortised straight-line over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding five years. 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Intangible assets – patents 
Patents are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Patents are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  
Intangible assets – internally generated intangible assets – research and development expenditure 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
The Group is engaged in development activities which include both general product development and specific customer development 
projects. An internally generated intangible asset arising from these development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions 
are met: 
– an asset is created that can be identified; 
– it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and 
– the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally generated intangible 
asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
   75
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount 
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that 
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless 
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase. 
Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
The Group as lessee 
Assets held under finance leases and similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are 
capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their economic useful life. Assets 
are recognised at their fair value or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the 
lease. The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of the capital repayments outstanding. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are recognised 
as a liability and are allocated on a straight-line basis as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term. 
The Group as lessor 
Rental income from operating leases, which have arisen from the sublet of vacant premises, is recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the relevant lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an attributable 
proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price,  
. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items 
where appropriate. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method,  
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is 
impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, 
and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is 
written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
operating expenses in the income statement. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value less bank overdrafts. 
  
less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal
less provision for impairment.  76
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Bank borrowings 
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including 
premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the consolidated income statement 
using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the 
period in which they arise. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are not 
recognised for future operating losses. 
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised as property provisions and measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense. 
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations 
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. 
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for restructuring and has raised a valid 
expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those 
affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are 
those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with ongoing activities of the entity. 
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sales of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the 
relevant products, at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligations. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the former of which is now closed to new entrants. 
For defined benefit schemes, the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the statement of financial position represents the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets. The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit 
Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement 
of comprehensive income in full in the period in which they occur. As the defined benefit schemes are now closed, no service cost is incurred. 
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the income statement in the period is the amount of contributions payable 
in the period. The difference between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown either in accruals 
or prepayments in the statement of financial position. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an 
independently administered fund. 
Share-based payments 
Equity-settled share-based payments are issued to certain employees and are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the 
date of grant. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the determination of the fair value 
of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 30. 
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. At each reporting date, 
the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects 
the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised, measured initially at fair value. At each reporting date until the liability is 
settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for 
the period.  
Non-recurring items 
Costs that are one off in nature and significant, such as restructuring costs, are deemed to be non-recurring by virtue of their nature and size. 
They are included under the statutory classification appropriate to their nature but are separately disclosed on the face of the income 
statement to assist in understanding the financial performance of the Group and the Company. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. Non-equity share capital, which includes preference shares, is classified within non-current liabilities. 
   77
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets 
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are initially measured 
at fair value, plus transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss which are initially measured 
at fair value. 
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’, ‘held-to-maturity’ 
investments, ‘available-for-sale’ financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. 
Effective interest method 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating interest income 
or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through 
the expected life of the financial asset/liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 
Financial assets at ‘fair value through profit or loss’ (‘FVTPL’) 
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. Financial assets at 
FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised 
in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset. 
Held-to-maturity investments 
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the 
Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment. 
Available-for-sale financial assets (‘AFS’) 
AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as AFS or are not classified as (a) loans and receivables, (b) held-to-
maturity investments or (c) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 
Changes in the carrying amount of AFS monetary financial assets relating to changes in foreign currency rates, interest income calculated 
using the effective interest method and dividends on AFS equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Other changes in the carrying 
amount of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of 
investments revaluation reserve. Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously 
accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. 
Loans and receivables 
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method 
less impairment. 
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective 
evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows 
of the investment have been impacted. For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.  
Derecognition of financial assets 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received.  78
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Financial liabilities and equity  
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ or other financial liabilities. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value and subsequently stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the 
financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities 
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. The Group 
enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks. The use of financial derivatives is governed by 
a Group policy approved by the Board of Directors which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives to hedge certain risk 
exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Further details of derivative financial 
instruments are disclosed in Note 32 to the financial statements. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated 
and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event, the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge 
relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations. 
A derivative is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months 
and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities. 
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk as either 
cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.  
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along 
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge 
and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Cash flow hedge 
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Similarly, commodity derivative contracts 
which are entered into to mitigate commodity price fluctuations on firm purchasing commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss. 
Gains and losses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve are recognised immediately in profit or loss when the foreign operation 
is disposed of. 
   79
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Critical judgements and estimates in applying the accounting policies 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. Management has made the following 
judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. 
Property provisions 
As at 31 March 2013, the Group had property provisions of $4,055,000 (2012: $5,371,000) relating to onerous lease obligations arising from 
vacated leased premises and dilapidations. The provisions have been recorded taking into account management’s best estimate, following 
appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease over the remaining lease term and the level of sublease rental income, if any, that 
can be obtained from subtenants. The net cost of the leases is then discounted using a 2.25% pre-tax risk free discount rate (2012: 2.5%). The 
provisions are regularly reviewed in light of the most current information available. 
Pension benefits 
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number 
of assumptions including the appropriate discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension 
obligations. The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each period. This is the interest rate that should be used to 
determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining 
the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Other key 
assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in Note 31 to the 
financial statements. 
Taxation 
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures. Amounts 
provided are based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions are 
capable of being sustained. In arriving at this position, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should 
be taken against full recognition of the benefit. 
Deferred tax 
The Group operates in a large number of different tax jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in 
determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax 
assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income, time limits on the availability of 
taxable losses for carry forward and any future tax planning strategies. 
Inventory provisions 
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which is calculated as the estimated sales proceeds less costs of sale. 
Factors considered in the determination of net realisable value are the ageing, category and condition of inventories, recent inventory 
utilisation and forecasts of projected inventory utilisation. Reviews of provisions held against damaged, obsolete and slow moving inventory 
are carried out at least quarterly by management and these reviews require the application of judgement and estimates. Changes to these 
estimates could result in changes to the net valuation of inventory. 
3. Segment Information 
The internal reporting provided to the Group’s Board for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of Group performance is based 
upon the end markets the Group’s products are supplied into. The four reportable segments are: 
Consumer The Consumer sector supplies interconnect solutions and power products to manufacturers of electrical/electronic 
devices and appliances (including laptop/desktop computers, printers, televisions, power tools and floor cleaning 
equipment).  
Telecoms/Datacoms The Telecoms/Datacoms sector supplies customised interconnect solutions to manufacturers of equipment servicing 
the telecoms network, high performance computing and datacentre markets. 
Healthcare The Healthcare sector serves key accounts in the medical equipment field, supplying complex cable assembly and 
connector solutions for a broad range of medical equipment. 
Industrial The Industrial sector supplies cable assemblies to a diverse set of industrial markets, including test and measurement 
equipment, manufacturing/automation, refrigeration, vehicle telematics and renewable energy. 
The Board believes that this segmentation of the customer base best aligns the Group with its customers and markets and allows it to best 
leverage the global customer relationships in order to maximise opportunities for cross-selling. 
   80
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
3. Segment Information continued 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reportable segment: 
Revenue 
2013 
$’000  
2012
$’000
Consumer  311,026 330,372
Telecoms/Datacoms  82,184 99,440
Healthcare  46,944 51,663
Industrial  33,000 36,294
 473,154 517,769
 
Gross profit 
Before 
non-recurring items
$’000
Non-recurring 
items
$’000
2013
$’000 
Before  
non-recurring  
items 
$’000 
Non-recurring 
items
$’000
2012
$’000
Consumer  45,873 (2,011) 43,862 59,113 (4,990) 54,123
Telecoms/Datacoms  19,504 (21) 19,48321,034 –21,034
Healthcare  12,811 (31) 12,780 14,186 – 14,186
Industrial  7,087 (41) 7,046 8,186 – 8,186
 85,275 (2,104) 83,171 102,519 (4,990) 97,529
Unallocated operating expenses (excluding share-based 
payments) 
(72,933) (5,862) (78,795)(70,515) –(70,515)
Operating profit before share-based payments  12,342 (7,966) 4,376 32,004 (4,990) 27,014
Share-based payments  – (181) (181) – (3,976) (3,976)
Operating profit  12,342 (8,147) 4,195 32,004 (8,966) 23,038
Finance income  141 73
Finance costs  (2,410) (3,900)
Profit before tax  1,926 19,211
Taxation  (2,813) (2,029)
Profit after tax  (887) 17,182
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment before the allocation of operating expenses, share-based payments, finance 
income, finance costs and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to the Group’s Board for the purpose of resource allocation and 
assessment of performance. 
The segment profits above are shown after the following charges for depreciation and amortisation: 
Depreciation and amortisation 
2013 
$’000  
2012
$’000
Consumer  2,628 1,222
Telecoms/Datacoms  638 448
Healthcare  323 187
Industrial  412 274
 4,001 2,131
Depreciation and amortisation included in unallocated overhead costs 1,942 1,472
Total depreciation and amortisation charge for the period 5,943 3,603
Asset and liability information is not provided to the Board on a segmental basis. In order to maximise the efficiency of asset utilisation, the 
Group’s assets are employed cross-segment and the Board believes that there is no meaningful basis in which such assets and liabilities 
can be allocated. 
Information about major customers 
One (2012: two) of the Group’s customers individually accounts for more than 10% of total Group revenue. This customer operates in the 
Consumer sector and accounts for 28% (2012: 19%) of total Group revenue. 
   81
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
3. Segment Information continued 
Geographical information 
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) by geographical 
location are provided below: 
 Revenue  Non-Current Assets 
 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000 
Asia (excluding India) 295,781 299,205  37,278 18,594
North America 83,163 100,446  1,329 742
Europe (excluding UK) 73,454 89,723  492 420
India 6,869 11,371  681 574
South America 13,887 17,024  611 430
UK – –  6,984 5,787
 473,154 517,769  47,375 26,547
Revenue is attributed to countries on the basis of the geographical location of the Group entity recording the sale. 
4. Non-recurring items 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Restructuring costs 7,243 –
New product start-up costs 1,158 4,990
Release of onerous lease provision (435) –
 7,966 4,990
In the current period, a Group-wide restructuring programme was conducted across all functions and all regions to align the Group’s 
manufacturing and support facilities with the expected future performance of the business. The £7,243,000 cost of this programme includes 
severance payments, professional fees and associated asset write downs. 
In the first half of the current year, ongoing operational inefficiencies of $1,158,000 (2012: $4,990,000) were incurred in relation to new 
products introduced in the 52 weeks to 1 April 2012; specifically the migration from PVC to halogen-free power cords. These new products 
necessitated wide ranging improvements to our manufacturing processes and investments in higher grade tooling and precision moulding 
technologies. The exceptional costs include the materials scrap costs and labour inefficiencies associated with the new product lines. 
Dornoch House was a property previously vacated by the Group on which an onerous lease property provision was held. During the period, 
negotiations were held with the landlords to exit the property in return for a one-off payment. This payment was less than the provision book 
value and as a result, $435,000 of the provision has been released.  
5. Finance income 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Interest on bank deposits 141 73
Finance income earned on financial assets was derived from loans and receivables (including cash and bank balances) only. No other gains 
or losses have been recognised in respect of loans and receivables other than those disclosed above and impairment losses recognised in 
respect of trade receivables (see note 18). 
   82
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
6. Finance costs 
  Group 
 Notes 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans  1,459 1,839
Interest on obligations under finance leases  11 10
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 31 1,086 1,109
Return on pension assets 31 (1,038) (1,135)
Fair value (gain)/loss on interest rate swap contracts 32 – (214)
Unwinding of discount on long term provisions 23 287 216
Loss on ineffective cash flow hedges  – 842
Other  215 –
Total interest costs  2,020 2,667
Amortisation of debt issue costs 27 390 1,233
Total finance costs  2,410 3,900
No gains or losses have been recognised on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (including bank overdrafts and loans) other than 
those disclosed above. 
7. Profit for the period 
Profit for the period has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Net foreign exchange losses 977 1,936
Research and development costs 3,936 4,579
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 4,812 2,448
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (note 14) 1,131 1,155
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 297,210 331,215
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense 36 1,080
Reversal of write down of inventories recognised in the period (721) –
Staff costs (note 9) 91,272 90,895
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 298 317
Reversal of impairment losses recognised on trade receivables (225) –
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (27) 48
Operating lease payments (note 29) 5,999 6,009
During the period, management initiated a sales campaign targeting excess and aged inventories. Through successful sale of such aged 
items, $721,000 (2012: $nil), of stock provision was released.   83
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
7. Profit for the period continued 
Research and development costs disclosed on the previous page comprise the following: 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Employment costs 2,713 3,268
Raw materials and consultancy 951 916
Other  272 395
 3,936 4,579
A further $237,000 (2012: $nil) of development costs have been capitalised in relation to our newly acquired ‘AOC’ technology (see note 14). 
Reconciliation of operating profit to normalised EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, non-recurring items and 
share-based payment charge): 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Operating profit 4,195 23,038
Add back: 
Non-recurring items 7,966 4,990
Share-based payment charge 181 3,976
Normalised operating profit 12,342 32,004
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,812 2,448
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1,131 1,155
Normalised EBITDA 18,285 35,607
8. Auditor’s remuneration 
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows: 
 Group 
 2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 295 301
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other audit services to the Group    
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 360 369
– the audit of the Group’s Restatement of Historical Financial Information to USD – 40
Total audit fees 655 710
Other services pursuant to legislation 
Tax advisory services 58 15
Other services 43 19
Total non-audit fees 101 34
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 and 46 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when the auditors provide non-audit services. 
   84
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
9. Staff costs 
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: 
 Group 
 
2013
No.
2012
No.
Production 7,392 7,095
Sales and distribution 565 616
Administration 638 690
 8,595 8,401
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Wages and salaries 79,405 76,231
Social security costs 9,995 9,487
Share-based payment charge/(credit) (note 30) 181 3,976
Other pension costs (note 31) 1,691 1,201
 91,272 90,895
In addition to the above $5,344,000 (2012: $nil) has been paid in severance costs. 
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and interests for 
the period required by the Companies Act 2006 are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 56 
and form part of the financial statements. 
10. Taxation 
 Group 
 2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Current tax – charge for the period 2,782 4,409
Current tax – adjustment in respect of previous periods 452 303
Total current tax 3,234 4,712
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences (note 22) (421) (2,683)
Income tax expense 2,813 2,029
UK corporation tax is calculated at 24% (2012: 26%) of the estimated assessable profit for the period. Taxation for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The charge/(credit) for the period can be reconciled to the profit/(loss) per the income statement as follows: 
 
2013
$’000
2013 
% 
2012
$’000
2012
%
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,926 100 19,211 100
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 24% (2012: 26%) 462 24 4,995 26
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible and income that 
is not taxable in determining taxable profit 
2,501 130 3,116 16
Tax effect of non-utilisation of tax losses 2,335 121 959 5
Tax effect of adjustment in respect of previous periods 452 23 303 2
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (1,087) (56) (1,732) (9)
Tax effect of recognised deferred tax (421) (22) (2,683) (14)
Tax effect of loss utilisation (1,429) (74) (2,929) (15)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the period 2,813 146 2,029 11
   85
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
11. Dividends 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 of 3.0 cents per share (2011: 2.0 pence per share) 1,690 1,850
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 of 2.0 cents per share (2012: 1.5 cents per share) 1,123 862
 2,813 2,712
Proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 of 3.0 cents per share (2012: 3.0 cents per share) 1,723 1,699
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as 
a liability in these financial statements. 
12. Earnings per Ordinary share 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 
  Group 
 
Notes 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Profit/(loss) for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share 
being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
(887) 17,182
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items 4 7,966 4,990
Share-based payments charge 30 181 3,976
Tax effect of above adjustment  (792) (1,416)
Normalised earnings  6,468 24,732
 
 No. shares No. shares
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 56,913,780 56,582,380
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares – share options 771,673 1,777,754
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 57,685,453 58,360,134
 
Basic earnings per share 
2013
Cents
2012
Cents
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (1.6) 30.4
Adjustments for: 
Non-recurring items 14.0 8.8
Share-based payments charge 0.3 7.0
Tax effect of above adjustments (1.3) (2.5)
Normalised basic earnings per share 11.4 43.7
 
Diluted earnings per share 
2013
Cents
2012
Cents
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (1.5) 29.4
Adjustments for: 
Non-recurring items 13.8 8.6
Share-based payments charge 0.3 6.8
Tax effect of above adjustments (1.4) (2.4)
Normalised diluted earnings per share 11.2 42.4
The normalised earnings per share has been calculated on the basis of profit before non-recurring items and share-based payments, net 
of tax. The Directors consider that this earnings per share calculation gives a better understanding of the Group’s earnings per share in the 
current and prior period. 
   86
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
13. Goodwill 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Cost 
At beginning of the period 6,071 6,119
Exchange differences (302) (48)
At the end of the period 5,769 6,071
 
Accumulated impairment losses 
At beginning of the period 2,986 3,010
Exchange differences (149) (24)
At the end of the period 2,837 2,986
 
Carrying amount at the end of the period 2,932 3,085
Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 3,085 3,109
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the business units that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination. After recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows: 
 2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Volex North America 2,177 2,291
Volex Europe 673 709
Volex India 82 85
 2,932 3,085
The Group annually tests goodwill for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, revenue and costs growth rates and the level of capital expenditure required during the period. 
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the business unit. The growth rates are based upon industry growth forecasts. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recently approved annual budget. Growth has then been forecast for the 
next four years at rates that do not exceed the average long term growth rates for the sector markets. No growth is forecast for cash flows 
for years beyond 2018. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is a pre-tax discount rate of 15.5% (2012: 10.47%), which reflects the Group’s estimated cost 
of capital. 
   87
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
14. Other intangible assets 
Group 
Acquired  
patents 
$’000 
Capitalised 
development 
costs 
$’000 
Software and 
licences
$’000 
Total
$’000
Cost   
At 3 April 2011 – – 3,035 3,035
Additions – – 1,986 1,986
Disposals – – (123) (123)
Exchange differences – – (101) (101)
At 1 April 2012 – – 4,797 4,797
Additions 1,527 237 803 2,567
Exchange differences (74) (7) (198) (279)
At 31 March 2013 1,453 230 5,402 7,085
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 3 April 2011 – – 915 915
Depreciation charge for the period – – 1,155 1,155
Disposals – – (123) (123)
Exchange differences – – (47) (47)
At 1 April 2012 – – 1,900 1,900
Depreciation charge for the period – – 1,131 1,131
Exchange differences – – (93) (93)
At 31 March 2013 – – 2,938 2,938
Carrying amount   
At 31 March 2013 1,453 230 2,464 4,147
At 1 April 2012 – – 2,897 2,897
At 3 April 2011 – – 2,120 2,120
On 14 January 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of the active optical technology platform from Applied Micro Circuits Corporation 
(‘APM’). This acquisition included 29 patents for active optical cable (‘AOC’) assemblies. These patents are jointly owned with APM, however, 
for 5 years from the date of acquisition, the Group has exclusive use of the technology. 
Subsequent to the acquisition, the Group has incurred development costs in integrating the acquired technology with the Group’s existing 
product range. Having met the conditions of IAS 38 “Intangible Assets“ these costs have been capitalised. The Group expects commercial 
production of AOC products to commence in the 52 weeks to 30 March 2014. 
Computer software is amortised over the estimated useful life, not exceeding five years. The amortisation charge for the period is fully 
expensed within operating expenses. 
   88
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
14. Other intangible assets continued 
The carrying amount of the Group’s and Company’s software and licences includes an amount of $nil (2012: $130,000) in respect of assets 
held under finance leases. 
Company   Software and licences 
 
  2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Cost   
At beginning of period   2,819 2,107
Additions   778 738
Exchange differences   (161) (26)
At end of the period   3,436 2,819
Accumulated amortisation   
At beginning of period   864 312
Amortisation charge for the period   711 552
Exchange differences   (71) –
At end of the period   1,504 864
Carrying amount at end of period   1,932 1,955
Carrying amount at start of period   1,955 1,795
15. Property, plant and equipment 
Group 
Long 
leasehold 
buildings 
$’000 
Plant and
machinery
$’000 
Total
$’000
Cost  
At 3 April 2011 4,097 42,722 46,819
Additions 589 9,674 10,263
Disposals (76) (6,195) (6,271)
Exchange differences (61) (938) (999)
At 1 April 2012 4,549 45,263 49,812
Additions 2,017 22,843 24,860
Disposals – (2,014) (2,014)
Exchange differences (8) (558) (566)
At 31 March 2013 6,558 65,534 72,092
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 3 April 2011 2,995 31,359 34,354
Depreciation charge for the period 151 2,297 2,448
Disposals (76) (6,068) (6,144)
Exchange differences (23) (845) (868)
At 1 April 2012 3,047 26,743 29,790
Depreciation charge for the period 1,666 3,146 4,812
Disposals – (1,778) (1,778)
Exchange differences (5) (418) (423)
At 31 March 2013 4,708 27,693 32,401
Carrying amount  
At 31 March 2013 1,850 37,841 39,691
At 1 April 2012 1,502 18,520 20,022
At 3 April 2011 1,102 11,363 12,465
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and machinery includes an amount of $nil (2012: $88,000) in respect of assets held under finance 
leases. At 31 March 2013, the Group had no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2012: $nil). 
Of the $4,812,000 (2012: $2,448,000) depreciation charge for the period, $4,001,000 (2012: $2,131,000) was expensed through cost of sales 
and $811,000 (2012: $317,000) was expensed through operating expenses. 
   89
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
15. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Company 
Plant and
Machinery
$’000
Cost 
At 3 April 2011 1,192
Additions  399
Disposals (789)
Exchange differences  (31)
At 1 April 2012 771
Additions  306
Disposals (113)
Exchange differences  (62)
At 31 March 2013  902
Accumulated depreciation and impairment 
At 3 April 2011 983
Depreciation charge for the period  174
Disposals (789)
Exchange differences  (23)
At 1 April 2012 345
Depreciation charge for the period  244
Disposals (98)
Exchange differences  (27)
At 31 March 2013 464
Carrying amount 
At 31 March 2013 438
At 1 April 2012 426
At 3 April 2011 209
The carrying amount of the Company’s plant and machinery includes no assets held under finance leases (2012: $88,000). At 31 March 2013, 
the Company had no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2012: $nil). 
   90
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
16. Investments 
The Company’s fixed asset investments comprise investments in wholly owned subsidiary undertakings and permanent loans as follows: 
Company 
Shares 
$’000 
Loans
$’000
Total
$’000
Cost  
At 3 April 2011 55,129 102,453 157,582
Additions – 8,357 8,357
Exchange differences (441) (644) (1,085)
At 1 April 2012 54,688 110,166 164,854
Additions – 1,331 1,331
Exchange differences (2,713) (924) (3,637)
At 31 March 2013 51,975 110,573 162,548
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 3 April 2011 5,868 6,180 12,048
Exchange differences (48) (343) (391)
At 1 April 2012 5,820 5,837 11,657
Exchange differences (288) (96) (384)
At 31 March 2013 5,532 5,741 11,273
Carrying amount  
At 31 March 2013 46,443 104,832 151,275
At 1 April 2012 48,868 104,329 153,197
At 3 April 2011 49,261 96,273 145,534
In the United Kingdom, the Company includes an operational division, Volex Powercords Europe. Details of the Company’s principal 
subsidiary undertakings are set out on page 111. Investments in subsidiaries are all stated at cost. 
In the 52 weeks to 1 April 2012, the Company made a long term loan of $3,255,000 to the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust. For further 
details on these loans see note 34. All loans are carried at amortised cost. 
17. Inventories 
 Group  Company 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Raw materials 18,221 19,343  – 693
Work-in-progress 138 153  – –
Finished goods 24,657 30,294  2,348 2,369
 43,016 49,790  2,348 3,062
   91
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
18. Trade and other receivables 
 Group  Company 
Trade Receivables 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 74,179 91,866  2,873 3,364
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,153) (1,254)  – (15)
 73,026 90,612  2,873 3,349
    
Other Receivables   
 
  
Amounts due from Group undertakings – –  28,871 55,794
Other debtors 8,045 13,619  1,144 1,064
Prepayments 3,389 2,016  1,519 523
 11,434 15,635  31,534 57,381
    
Due for settlement within 12 months 10,829 15,092  31,534 57,061
Due for settlement after 12 months 605 543  – 320
 11,434 15,635  31,534 57,381
Trade receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
One (2012: two) of the Group’s customers individually accounts for more than 10% of total Group revenue. This customer operates in 
the Consumer sector and accounts for 28% (2012: 19%) of total Group revenue. Other than this customer, the Group has no significant 
concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. At 31 March 2013, this customer 
represented 23% of the net trade receivables (2012: the two customers represented 31%). 
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 62 days (2012: 65 days). An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts from the sale of goods. This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and an analysis of the 
counterparty’s current financial position. 
Included in trade receivables are receivables with a carrying value of $6,775,000 (2012: $11,122,000) and $117,000 (2012: $600,000) for the 
Group and Company respectively which are past due at the reporting date for which no provision has been made as there has not been 
a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group and Company does not hold any collateral 
over these balances. 
 Group  Company 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
0–60 days 5,971 10,034  114 521
60–90 days 158 660  3 27
90–120 days 36 96  – –
120+ days 610 332  – 52
 6,775 11,122  117 600
   92
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
18. Trade and other receivables continued 
 Group  Company 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000 
 2013
$’000 
2012
$’000
Balance at beginning of the period 1,254 1,092  15 184
Amounts written off during the period (129) (35)  – –
Amounts recovered during the period (1) (19)  – –
Increase/(decrease) in allowance recognised in profit or loss 73 317  (15) (169)
Exchange differences (44) (101)  – –
Balance at end of the period 1,153 1,254  – 15
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. With the exception of the one customer noted above, the concentration of credit 
risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision 
required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts. 
 Group  Company 
Ageing of impaired trade receivables 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
0–60 days 9 72  – –
60–90 days – 2  – –
90–120 days – –  – –
120+ days 1,144 1,180  – 15
 1,153 1,254  – 15
19. Borrowings 
 Group  Company 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost   
Bank overdrafts 1,255 2,398  10,249 12,572
Secured borrowings at amortised cost  
Bank loans 43,289 37,420  29,192 22,757
Total borrowings at amortised cost 44,544 39,818  39,441 35,329
   
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1,255 2,398  10,249 12,572
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 43,289 37,420  29,192 22,757
 44,544 39,818  39,441 35,329
The weighted average interest rates paid on the Group’s borrowings during the period were as follows: 
 2013
% 
2012
%
Bank loans and overdrafts 2.1 2.5
   93
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
19. Borrowings continued 
On 31 May 2011 the Group entered into a US$75 million multi-currency combined revolving overdraft and guarantee facility with a syndicate 
of three banks (Lloyds Banking Group plc, HSBC Bank plc and Clydesdale Bank plc – together ‘the Syndicate’). The facility is available until 
June 2015. 
The amount available under the facility at 31 March 2013 was $75,000,000 (2012:$ 75,000,000). The facility was secured by fixed and floating 
charges over the assets of certain Group companies. 
At 31 March 2013, the facility incurred interest at a margin of 2.00% (2012: 1.75%) above LIBOR. 
Also drawn under the facilities, and not included above, are bonds, guarantees and letters of credit amounting to $3,107,000 (2012: 
$2,989,000). 
Drawings under the facilities were made in various currencies. Total borrowings for the Group at 31 March 2013 can be analysed by currency 
as follows: 
Group 2013
$’000
2012
$’000
US Dollar 38,364 26,102
Euro (2,245) 7,357
British Pound 9,216 7,383
Singapore Dollar 17 219
 45,352 41,061
Less: debt issue costs (808) (1,243)
 44,544 39,818
Undrawn borrowing facilities 
At 31 March 2013, the Group had available $26,541,000 (2012: $30,950,000) undrawn committed borrowing facilities. 
20. Obligations under finance leases 
 Minimum lease payments  
Present value of minimum 
lease payments 
Group and Company 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:    
Within one year – 122  – 117
In second and third years – –  – –
 – 122  – 117
Less: future finance charges – (5)  – –
Present value of lease obligations – 117  – 117
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months – (117)  – (117)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months – –  – –
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its plant and machinery under finance leases. At 31 March 2013 all finance leases had expired. 
At 1 April 2012, the average lease term on finance leases was 2.5 years and the average effective borrowing rate for the period was 4.1%. 
Interest rates were fixed at the contract date. All leases were on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements were entered into for 
contingent rental payments. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximated their carrying amount. The Group’s obligations 
under finance leases were secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets. 
   94
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
21. Trade and other payables 
 Group Company 
Trade payables 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Trade payables 73,184 88,551 1,705 1,547
  
Other payables 
 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 83,647 99,594
Other taxes and social security 2,359 7,041 945 1,430
Accruals and deferred income 23,096 28,239 2,435 2,693
 25,455 35,280 87,027 103,717
  
Due for settlement within 12 months 24,880 34,574 30,822 44,779
Due for settlement after 12 months 575 706 56,205 58,938
 25,455 35,280 87,027 103,717
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period 
taken for trade purchases is 82 days (2012: 90 days). The Group has financial risk policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within 
the credit time frame. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. 
22. Deferred tax 
Group 
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period. 
 
Unremitted
earnings
$’000
Trading
losses
$’000
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
$’000 
Other short-
term timing
differences
$’000 
Total
$’000
At 3 April 2011  (2,178) 1,833 (198) 391 (152)
(Charge)/credit to income (254) 3,168 85 (316) 2,683
Exchange differences 3 29 (16) (12) 4
At 1 April 2012  (2,429) 5,030 (129) 63 2,535
(Charge)/credit to income 778 (314) 13 (56) 421
Exchange differences (41) (466) (1) 495 (13)
At 31 March 2013 (1,692) 4,250 (117) 502 2,943
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes: 
 2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Deferred tax assets 4,732 5,098
Deferred tax liabilities (1,789) (2,563)
 2,943 2,535
At the reporting date, the Group had unused tax losses of $90,000,000 (2012: $86,000,000) available for offset against future profits. The 
Group has recognised $4,250,000 (2012: $5,030,000) of deferred tax asset in respect of these unused tax losses. Included in unrecognised 
tax losses are losses of $43,000,000 (2012: $38,000,000) that cannot be carried forward indefinitely. Of this amount, $2,000,000 (2012: 
$100,000) expires during the next five accounting periods. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely. The carrying amount of deferred 
tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it is probable that there are sufficient taxable profits to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on future forecast taxable profits. 
   95
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
22. Deferred tax continued 
At the reporting date, a deferred tax liability of $1,692,000 (2012: $2,429,000) has been recognised relating to the unremitted earnings of 
overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they 
will reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 31 March 2013 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas 
subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes 
levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate. 
Company 
At the reporting date, the Company had unused tax losses of $37,000,000 (2012: $33,000,000) available for offset against future profits. 
The Company has recognised $1,691,000 (2012: $2,180,000) of deferred tax asset in respect of these unused tax losses plus a further asset 
of $330,000 (2012: $nil) in respect of share options. The losses may be carried forward indefinitely. There is no deferred tax liability offset 
against this deferred tax asset (2012: $156,000). 
In addition to the changes in rates of Corporation tax disclosed in note 10, a reduction in the UK corporate tax rate to 23% from 1 April 2013 
was enacted in the Finance Act 2012. Further changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the March 2013 UK Budget 
Statement and legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 21% from 1 April 2014 is expected to be included in the Finance Act 
2013. These further changes had not been substantively enacted at the reporting date and, therefore, are not included in these financial 
statements. It is not expected that these changes will have a material impact on the Group’s or the Company’s tax balances. 
23. Provisions 
Group 
Property 
$’000 
Corporate 
restructuring 
$’000 
Other
$’000 
Total
$’000
At 3 April 2011  8,220 147 317 8,684
Charge/(credit) in the period (1,631) 11 – (1,620)
Utilisation of provision (1,356) – (146) (1,502)
Unwinding of discount (Note 6) 216 – – 216
Exchange differences (78) (7) (25) (110)
At 1 April 2012 5,371 151 146 5,668
Charge/(credit) in the period (452) 299 572 419
Utilisation of provision (917) (41) (282) (1,240)
Unwinding of discount (Note 6) 287 – – 287
Exchange differences (234) (12) (17) (263)
At 31 March 2013 4,055 397 419 4,871
Less: included in current liabilities (1,502) (345) (419) (2,266)
Non–current liabilities 2,553 52 – 2,605 96
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
23. Provisions continued 
Company 
Property 
$’000 
Corporate
restructuring
$’000
Total
$’000
At 3 April 2011  5,925 – 5,925
Charge/(credit) in the period 479 – 479
Utilisation of provision (1,092) – (1,092)
Unwinding of discount  139 – 139
Transfers – – –
Exchange differences (79) – (79)
At 1 April 2012 5,372 – 5,372
Charge/(credit) in the period (452) 292 (160)
Utilisation of provision (926) – (926)
Unwinding of discount  289 – 289
Transfers – – –
Exchange differences (237) (12) (249)
At 31 March 2013 4,046 280 4,326
Less: included in current liabilities (1,493) (280) (1,773)
Non-current liabilities 2,553 – 2,553
Property provisions 
Property provisions represent the anticipated net costs of onerous leases and associated dilapidations. The provisions have been recorded 
taking into account management’s best estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease over the remaining 
lease term and the level of sublease rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants. This provision will be utilised as the rental 
payments, net of any sublease income, fall due through to 2020. 
During the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013, the Group entered into negotiations with the landlord of one of the onerous properties with 
a view to exiting the lease. As a consequence of this, $435,000 of the property provision was released.  
Corporate Restructuring 
The corporate restructuring provision represents severance payments due to staff that have either left the Group through the restructuring 
programme or who are due to leave shortly and have been notified. A further amount relates to professional fees associated with the 
liquidation of dormant overseas entities. 
Other 
Other provisions include the Directors’ best estimate, based upon past experience, of the Group’s liability under specific product warranties 
and legal claims. The timing of the cash outflow with respect to these claims is uncertain. 
   97
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
24. Share capital 
Group and Company 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Authorised: 
75,000,000 (2012: 75,000,000) Ordinary shares of 25p each 34,513 34,513
Issued and fully paid: 
62,493,578 (2012: 62,493,578) Ordinary shares of 25p each 28,180 28,180
Under the terms of the Group’s various share schemes, the following rights to subscribe for Ordinary shares are outstanding: 
   Number of shares 
Date of grant Option price (p) Exercise period  2013 2012
Performance Share Plan   
7 September 2009 25 Sept 2012 – Mar 2013  305,623 1,117,945
11 January 2010 25 Jan 2013 – July 2013  – 90,000
31 August 2010 25 Aug 2013 – Aug 2020  1,063,333 1,750,000
31 August 2010 25 Aug 2014 – Aug 2020  650,000 1,150,000
1 December 2010 25 Aug 2013 – Aug 2020  30,000 30,000
6 June 2011 25 Aug 2014 – June 2021  – 325,000
5 July 2011 25 July 2014 – July 2021  45,884 79,652
5 July 2011 25 July 2014 – July 2021  142,116 211,348
28 June 2012 25 June 2015 – June 2022  300,000 –
Restricted share scheme   
6 September 2010 – Sept 2013 – Mar 2014  42,016 42,016
Non-Executive Director long term incentive scheme  
1 October 2010 – Mar 2012 – Mar 2017  266,666 266,666
1 October 2010 – Mar 2013 – Mar 2018  266,667 266,667
1 October 2010 – Mar 2014 – Mar 2019  266,667 266,667
   3,378,972 5,595,961
For further details of the Group’s share option schemes see note 30. 
25. Non-equity preference shares 
In the 52 weeks to 1 April 2012, the Company cancelled its 80,000 cumulative preference shares of £1 each at a cost of $130,000. The shares 
had rights to a fixed cumulative preference dividend payable, at the rate of 7% per annum, on the amount paid up or credited as paid up 
thereon on 31 March and 30 September in each year but not to any further participation in the profits of the Company. Prior to cancellation, 
accrued interest of $77,000 was paid. 
   98
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
26. Own shares 
 
2013
 $’000
2012
$’000
At beginning of the period 5,271 2,240
Issued in the period – –
Acquired in the period – 3,256
Disposed of on exercise in the period (326) (225)
At end of the period 4,945 5,271
The own shares reserve represents both the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and the nominal share capital of 
shares in the Company issued to the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust to satisfy future 
share option exercises under the Group’s share option schemes (see note 30).  
The number of ordinary shares held by the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust at 31 March 2013 was 4,050,598 (2012: 4,866,815) and the 
Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust was 1,005,000 (2012: 1,005,000). The market value of the shares as at 31 March 2013 was $7,929,000 
(2012: $24,143,000). 
Unless and until the Company notifies a trustee of either trust to the contrary, and in the case of the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust, 
in respect to shares held in the trust in which a beneficial interest has not vested, rights to dividends in respect to the shares held in the trust 
are waived. 
27. Analysis of net debt 
Group 
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
$’000
Bank 
loans
$’000
Finance 
leases 
$’000 
Debt issue 
Costs
$’000
Total
$’000
At 3 April 2011 18,525 (26,484) (303) 814 (7,448)
Cash flow 23,714 (13,167) 181 1,655 12,383
Exchange differences (1,059) 988 5 7 (59)
Other non-cash changes – – – (1,233) (1,233)
At 1 April 2012 41,180 (38,663) (117) 1,243 3,643
Cash flow (17,229)(6,000) 117 –(23,112)
Exchange differences (162) 566 – (45) 359
Other non-cash changes – – – (390) (390)
At 31 March 2013 23,789 (44,097) – 808 (19,500)
Debt issue costs relate to bank facility arrangement fees. Amortisation of debt issue costs in the period amounted to $390,000 
(2012: $1,233,000). 
   99
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
28. Notes to the statement of cash flows 
Group Company 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Profit/(loss) for the period (887) 17,182 (11,850) 1,254
Adjustments for:   
Finance income (141) (73) (157) (159)
Finance costs 2,410 3,900 3,633 1,825
Income tax expense 2,813 2,029 94 (379)
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4,812 2,448 244 174
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,131 1,155 711 552
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (28) 48 – –
Share-based payment charge 181 3,976 181 3,976
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes – – (2,292) (507)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (1,444) (3,122) (1,243) (613)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 8,847 27,543 (10,679) 6,123
(Increase)/decrease in inventories 6,374 968 711 954
(Increase)/decrease in receivables 19,504 9,161 24,191 (17,200)
Increase/(decrease) in payables (22,712) (1,340) (11,405) (6,116)
Movement in working capital 3,166 8,789 13,497 (22,362)
Cash generated from operations 12,013 36,332 2,818 (16,239)
Cash generated by operations before non-recurring items 18,907 41,039 5,300 (16,239)
Cash utilised by non-recurring items (6,894) (4,707) (2,482) –
Taxation paid (3,868) (3,199) (175) (887)
Interest paid (1,780) (2,780) (1,103) (1,888)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 6,365 30,353 1,540 (19,014)
 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Group Company 
 
2013 
$’000 
2012 
$’000 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Cash and bank balances 25,044 43,578 – –
Bank overdrafts (1,255) (2,398) (10,249) (12,572)
 23,789 41,180 (10,249) (12,572)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group, short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less and 
bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
   100
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
29. Operating lease arrangements 
Group  Company 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
The following have been recognised during the period:   
Minimum lease payments made under operating leases   
Paid 7,274 7,433  1,621 1,666
Recognised in operating profit 5,999 6,009  346 242
Payments made under operating leases net of sublease receipts and charged against the onerous lease provision in the period was 
$1,275,000 (2012: $1,424,000) for the Group and $1,275,000 (2012: $1,424,000) for the Company.  
At the reporting date, the Group and Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
Group  Company 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Within one year 6,054 6,807  1,564 1,797
In the second to fifth years inclusive 8,414 11,183  3,641 4,685
After five years 4,113 2,214  1,443 2,214
 18,581 20,204  6,648 8,696
Operating lease payments primarily represent rentals payable by the Group for its office and manufacturing properties. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of five years (2012: five years). 
At the reporting date, the Group had contracted with tenants under non-cancellable subleases for the following future minimum 
lease payments: 
Group  Company 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Within one year 1,265 1,065  365 352
In the second to fifth years inclusive 687 1,799  253 810
 1,952 2,864  618 1,162
   101
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
30. Share-based payments 
 Group 
 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Share-based payment charge 731 3,485
National insurance charge in relation to share awards (550) 491
 181 3,976
During the period the Group had two types of equity-settled share option schemes in operation; a Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) and a 
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (‘NED-LTIS’). In addition, the Group had issued Restricted Share Awards (‘RSAs’) under 
the Restricted Share Scheme. In the prior period the Group had a further scheme in the form of a Long Term Incentive plan (‘LTIP’). 
Options issued under the PSP are exercisable between three years and ten years from the date of grant subject to the continued 
employment of the participant and achievement of share price performance targets. All awards under the PSP have an exercise price 
of 25p, which is equivalent to the nominal value of the underlying Ordinary share. Full details of how the scheme operates are explained 
on pages 50 to 52 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Certain awards issued under the PSP have been, with the recipients’ agreement, 
converted into shares held under a Joint Share Ownership Plan (‘JSOP’). These shares are jointly held by the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose 
Trust, which under the terms of the agreement holds the majority of ownership rights until such time as the original awards vest. As the 
performance conditions and other key terms of the JSOP are the same as those of the PSP, and as the JSOP is used only as a structure to 
deliver PSP awards, these JSOP awards have been reported as PSP awards. 
The NED-LTIS seeks to reward certain Non-Executive Directors subject to their continued employment and certain share price targets as at 
25 March 2012. The awards vest in equal tranches at 25 March 2012, 25 March 2013 and 25 March 2014 and are exercisable for 5 years 
from the vesting date. The Group has the option to provide the award in shares of the Company or cash equivalent to the number of shares 
that would be awarded multiplied by the market price of the Company’s shares at the date of exercise. Full details of how the scheme 
operates are explained on page 54 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The RSAs are nil cost options that vest, subject to continued employment, after three years from the date of grant. RSA awards have an 
exercise price of $nil. 
During the prior period, the last and sole remaining grants under the LTIP, which were awarded in 2009, vested and were fully exercised 
by the beneficiaries. As a result, at 1 April 2012, there were no remaining awards outstanding under the LTIP. 
Details of the share awards outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of those awards are as follows: 
2013  2012 
 
Number of share 
awards
Weighted average 
exercise price (p)  
Number of share 
awards
Weighted average 
exercise price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of period 5,595,961 21   6,206,607 22
Granted during the period 300,000 25  652,000 25
Exercised during the period (799,242) 25  (570,000) 25
Expired during the period (1,717,747) 25  (692,646) 25
Outstanding at the end of the period 3,378,972 19  5,595,961 21
Exercisable at the end of the period 533,333 –  266,667 –
Of the share awards that expired during the period, 1,717,747 (2012: 692,646) lapsed in respect of leavers and no options (2012: no options) 
expired due to failure to meet performance conditions. 
The awards outstanding at 31 March 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6 years (2012: 6 years). 
   102
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
30. Share-based payments continued 
Of the 3,378,972 awards outstanding at 31 March 2013, 2,536,956 had an exercise price of £0.25 and 842,016 had an exercise price of £nil. 
Of the 5,595,961 awards outstanding at 1 April 2012, 4,753,945 had an exercise price of £0.25 and 842,016 had an exercise price of £nil. 
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted during the period was $325,000 (2012: $1,734,000). 
The fair values of the awards granted in the period were calculated at the date of grant using a stochastic (Monte Carlo binomial) model. 
The inputs into the valuation models were as follows: 
 2013 2012
Weighted average share price £2.53 £3.41
Weighted average exercise price £0.25 £0.25
Expected volatility 44% 50%
Expected life (years) 3.50 3.25
Risk-free rate 0.36% 1.41%
Expected dividends 1.10% 0.65%
Expected volatility was determined with reference to historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioural considerations. 
31. Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Company operates two Inland Revenue approved defined contribution schemes and makes contributions to a Group pension plan. 
Overseas the Group operates three defined contribution schemes, one in the USA, one in Ireland and one in Brazil.  
The total cost charged to the Group’s income statement in the period was $1,691,000 (2012: $1,201,000). The total cost charged to the 
Company’s income statement in the period was $986,000 (2012: $715,000). 
Defined benefit schemes 
In September 2010 the Company’s two Inland Revenue approved defined benefit pension schemes were merged, after appropriate 
approval had been obtained from the members and trustees of both schemes. During the period ended 3 April 2011, the assets and 
liabilities of the Volex No. 1 Pension Scheme were transferred into the Volex Executive Pension Scheme, with the latter scheme now the sole 
vehicle for the provision of accrued pension rights in the future. Wind-up of the Volex No. 1 Pension Scheme was completed during the prior 
period with the signing, by the Trustees and the Company, of the Deed of Dissolution, in November 2011.  
Future accrual of retirement benefits under the scheme(s) ceased on 31 March 2003 when the scheme(s) were replaced with defined 
contribution arrangements. The last full actuarial valuation of the scheme(s) was carried out by a qualified independent actuary on 
31 July 2010, and the assumptions used and results from this valuation have been incorporated, as appropriate, in the following 
IAS19 disclosures. This valuation has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 March 2013 and utilises the projected unit credit 
valuation method.  
The key assumptions utilised are: 
 Valuation at 
 2013 2012
Discount rate 4.4% 4.6%
Expected return on scheme assets 5.2% 6.3%
Future pension increases 2.5% 2.3%
Price inflation 3.5% 3.3%
   103
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
31. Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The following mortality assumptions have been made: 
 2013 2012
Future life expectancy for a pensioner currently aged 65 (years) 
– Male 23.4 23.3
– Female 24.5 24.4
Future life expectancy at age 65 for a non–pensioner currently aged 55 (years) 
– Male 24.2 24.2
– Female 25.5 25.4
 
Amounts recognised in income statement (Note 6) 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Interest cost (1,086) (1,109)
Expected return on scheme assets 1,038 1,135
Finance income / (costs) (48) 26
No other amounts have been recognised in the income statement (2012: $nil). 
Actuarial losses of $755,000 (2012: $1,828,000) have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Fair value of scheme assets 18,380 18,245
Present value of defined benefit obligations (22,004) (21,817)
Deficit in scheme recognised in the statement of financial position (3,624) (3,572)
Current liabilities 585 596
Non-current liabilities 3,039 2,976
 3,624 3,572
The Company has contributed $597,000 to its defined benefit pension plans in the period ended 31 March 2013 (2012: $294,000). 
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
At beginning of period (21,817) (20,794)
Interest cost (1,086) (1,109)
Actuarial gains/(losses) (1,399) (1,089)
Benefits paid 1,106 983
Foreign exchange 1,192 192
At end of period (22,004) (21,817)
 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
At beginning of period 18,245 18,660
Expected return on scheme assets 1,038 1,135
Actuarial gains/(losses) 644 (739)
Contributions from the sponsoring company 597 294
Benefits paid (1,106) (983)
Foreign exchange (1,038) (122)
At end of period 18,380 18,245
   104
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
31. Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Composition of assets 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Equity instruments 11,763 11,677
Debt instruments 6,617 6,021
Property – 547
 18,380 18,245
None of the fair values of the assets shown above include any of the Company’s own financial instruments or any property occupied or other 
assets used by the Company (2012: $nil). 
Expected long term rates of return 
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on 
risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the 
portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted 
based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumptions for the portfolio. 
The expected long term rates of return are as follows: 
 
2013
%
2012
%
Equity instruments 5.8 6.9
Debt instruments 4.6 5.2
Property 5.8 6.9
 5.2 6.3
The actual return on scheme assets for the period was a gain of $1,600,000 (2012: $422,000). 
Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
At beginning of the period 620 2,448
Net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the period (755) (1,828)
At end of the period (135) 620
 
Five-year history of experience adjustments 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Fair value of scheme assets $’000 18,380 18,245 18,660 16,788 13,584
Present value of defined benefit obligations $’000 (22,004) (21,817) (20,794) (20,407) (16,290)
Deficit in scheme $’000 (3,624) (3,572) (2,134) (3,619) (2,706)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities  
$’000 (242) 56 23 83 (88)
% scheme liabilities 1% –– – 0.5%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets  
$’000 644 (713) 129 4,143 (3,939)
% scheme assets 4% (4%) 1% 25% (29%)
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the 52 weeks to 30 March 2014 is $585,000 
(2012: $596,000). 
   105
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
32. Financial instruments 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.  
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 19, cash and cash equivalents and 
equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as contained in the statement 
of changes in equity. 
The Board reviews the capital structure on a regular basis including facility headroom, forecast working capital and capital 
expenditure requirements.  
The Group has a multi-currency revolving credit facility (‘RCF’), which had an available limit of $75,000,000 as at 31 March 2013 
(2012: $75,000,000). At 31 March 2013 the amounts drawn under this facility included term loans of $30,000,000 and €11,000,000 
(2012: $24,000,000 and €11,000,000) and overdrafts of $1,255,000 (2012: $2,398,000) denominated in a variety of currencies. The average 
combined utilisation during the period was $43,983,000 (2012: $40,127,000).  
At 31 March 2013 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of $26,541,000 (2012: $30,950,000).  
The terms of the RCF require the Group to perform quarterly financial covenant calculations with respect to leverage (adjusted net debt to 
adjusted rolling 12 month EBITDA) and interest cover (adjusted rolling 12 month EBITDA to adjusted rolling 12 month interest). Breach of these 
covenants could result in cancellation of the facility. 
Based on the Group’s projected financial performance, taking reasonable account of possible downsides, the Board are confident that the 
combination of the above facilities provides adequate liquidity headroom for the successful execution of the Group’s operations and the 
Group will be able to operate in agreement with the required covenant levels.  
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
Financial instruments 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank borrowings and overdrafts, cash and short term deposits, trade and other 
receivables and trade and other payables. The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally copper forward contracts to 
manage the commodity price risk arising from its operations, interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk arising from its borrowings 
and forward currency contracts to manage the currency risks arising from its operations. 
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements. Except as detailed below, the Directors consider that the carrying amounts of the financial assets and financial liabilities 
recorded at amortised cost approximate their fair values: 
 
Book value 
2013 
$’000 
Book value 
2012 
$’000 
Fair value
2013
$’000
Fair value
2012
$’000
Financial assets – loans and receivables   
Cash 25,044 43,578 25,044 43,578
Trade and other receivables 74,789 92,635 74,789 92,635
Financial liabilities – Amortised cost  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (44,544) (39,818) (45,352) (41,061)
Obligations under finance leases – (117) – (117)
Trade and other payables (91,899) (107,433) (91,899) (107,433)
Financial derivatives for which hedge accounting has been applied  
Derivative financial instruments (399) 1,453 (399) 1,453
Financial derivatives for which hedge accounting has not been applied  
Derivative financial instruments – (54) – (54)
The financial derivatives above fall into level 3, as defined by IFRS 7: Financial Instruments Disclosures. The fair value has been calculated 
at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. 
   106
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
32. Financial instruments continued 
Financial risk management 
The Group’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financing, 
monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group. These risks include market risk (interest rate risk, currency 
risk and commodity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Group seeks to minimise these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these risk exposures and external borrowings 
denominated in currencies that match the net asset currency profile of the Group. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
these risks and they are summarised below. The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments. It is, and 
has been throughout the periods under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
Market risk 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and copper 
commodity prices. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises principally from borrowings issued at variable rates which expose the Group to cash flow interest 
rate risk.  
Management does not consider the risk arising from finance leases to be significant. 
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 
2013 
Within 1
year
$’000
1–2
years
$’000
2–3
years
$’000
3–4
years
$’000
4–5 
years 
$’000 
More than
5 years
$’000
Total
$’000
Fixed rate:  
Obligations under finance leases – –––– – –
Floating rate:  
Cash assets 25,044 – – – – –25,044
Bank loans and borrowings (1,255) –(43,289) – – –(44,544)
 
2012 
Within 1
year
$’000
1–2
years
$’000
2–3
years
$’000
3–4
years
$’000
4–5 
years 
$’000 
More than
5 years
$’000
Total
$’000
Fixed rate:  
Obligations under finance leases (117) –––– – (117)
Floating rate:  
Cash assets 43,578 –––– –43,578
Bank loans and borrowings (2,398) – – (37,420) – – (39,818) 107
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
32. Financial instruments continued 
Interest rate swap contracts 
The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, and by 
the use of interest rate swap contracts. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite; 
ensuring the most cost effective hedging strategies are applied. 
The interest rate hedge contracts which were in place during the previous period matured in May 2012. At this time management reviewed 
the interest rate risk exposure and decided not to renew these contracts. We are therefore exposed to floating rate interest on our 
borrowings as at 31 March 2013. The floating rate interest as at 31 March 2013 was a margin of 2.00% (1 April 2012: 1.75%) above LIBOR. 
At 1 April 2012, the Group had two interest rate swap contracts outstanding. Under these interest rate swap contacts, the Group agreed to 
exchange differences between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts 
enabled the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures 
on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at 1 April 2012 was determined by discounting the future cash 
flows using the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is 
based on the outstanding balances at the end of the period. 
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding at the 
reporting date. 
Average contract 
fixed interest 
 Notional principal 
amount 
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts 
2013 
% 
2012 
%  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Less than one year – 2.2  – 14,999
1–2 years – –  – –
2–3 years – –  – –
Fair value – –  – (54)
The interest rate swaps settled on a quarterly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps was three months LIBOR. The Group settled 
the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis. 
The interest rate swap contracts were not designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and consequently a fair value gain (excluding 
the impact of foreign exchange) of $214,000 was reflected in the 2012 results (see note 6). 
Interest rate sensitivity 
During the period the Group reduced the extent of cover provided by interest rate swaps from 45% at 1 April 2012 to nil at 31 March 2013. The 
sensitivity analysis prepared is after including the movement in fair value on the interest rate swaps. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is 
prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the 31 March 2013 was outstanding for the whole period.  
Had interest rates been 0.5% higher/ 0.25% lower in the period, and all other variables were held constant, Group profit before tax would 
have been $215,000 higher/$107,000 lower (2012: $32,000 higher/$18,000 lower). A 0.5% increase/0.25% decrease interest rate sensitivity 
test has been performed since this represents the Directors’ assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect 
to the Euro and Sterling. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net 
investments in foreign operations.  
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s 
policy is to hedge its related translation exposures through the designation of certain amounts of its foreign currency denominated debt 
as a hedging instrument. 
   108
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
32. Financial instruments continued 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows: 
Liabilities  Assets 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Euro 6,296 18,076  11,073 11,737
US Dollar 97,617 102,840  64,521 95,849
Sterling 10,556 8,732  695 916
Chinese Renminbi 9,017 13,507  10,553 8,159
Indian Rupee 872 791  3,542 4,882
Other  12,084 3,476  9,848 16,123
Foreign currency sensitivity 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in USD against the relevant foreign currencies. The 10% rate 
used represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes 
only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign 
currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes both external loans and loans to foreign operations within the Group where the 
denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.  
 GBP impact  EURO impact 
 
2013
$’000
2012 
$’000  
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
10% depreciation in foreign currency   
(i) Profit before tax 968 617  585 (210)
(ii) Equity* (10,835) (12,005)  242 271
10% appreciation in foreign currency   
(i) Profit before tax (792) (505)  (479) 172
(ii) Equity* 8,865 9,822  (198) (222)
(i) This is mainly attributable to the exposure on GBP/EURO monetary assets and liabilities in the Group at the reporting date. 
(ii) This is mainly attributable to changes in the carrying value of external loans designated a hedge of overseas investments and of intercompany loans for which 
settlement is not planned. 
* Excludes any deferred tax impact. 
Copper commodity price risk 
Copper price volatility is the single largest commodity price exposure facing the Group. Many of the Group’s products, in particular power 
cords used in the Consumer sector, are manufactured from components that contain significant amounts of copper. Where possible the 
Group will pass on copper price movements to its customers. In order to mitigate the remaining volatility associated with copper, the Group 
has entered into arrangements with its key suppliers to purchase copper. Coupled with these purchases, the Group has entered into a 
number of contracts with financial institutions which are linked to the average copper price as published by the London Metal Exchange 
(‘LME’). These contracts have been deemed cash flow hedges of forecast future copper purchases. At the reporting date, the open copper 
contracts are as follows: 
Copper cash flow hedges  2013  2012
Contracted copper price  
Contracted
 volume (MT)
Fair Value 
$’000 
Contracted 
 volume (MT) 
Fair Value
$’000
$7,000 – $7,500  350 103 800 1,028
$7,500 – $8,000  1,980 (386) 700 418
$8,000 – $8,500 
   
200 (116) 200 7
  2,530 (399) 1,780 1,453
All contracts expire within 12 months of 31 March 2013.   109
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 
32. Financial instruments continued 
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables. Credit risk refers to the risk that 
a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
Bank and cash balances comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value. The credit risk on these assets is limited because the counterparties 
are predominantly financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. 
The Group’s credit risk is therefore primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The Group’s customers are predominantly large blue chip 
OEMs, contract equipment manufacturers and distributors. The Group regularly reviews the credit worthiness of significant customers and 
credit references are sought for major new customers where relevant. The Board recognises that credit risk is a feature of all businesses, 
especially international businesses. However, it believes that all reasonable steps to mitigate any loss are taken. 
The net amount of trade receivables reflects the maximum credit exposure to the Group. No other guarantees or security have been given. 
For further information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables, see note 18. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities, regular monitoring of forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Included in Note 19 is a description of undrawn facilities as at the reporting 
date. 
In addition to the banking facilities available to the Group, the Group has access to a non-recourse invoice discounting facility. Under the 
terms of the arrangement, the Group can sell up to $15 million of trade receivables associated with a specific customer. As at 31 March 2013, 
the Group had utilised $9.0 million (2012: $9.5 million) of this facility. 
The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings to show the timing of cash flows associated with 
the financial liabilities from the reporting date to the contracted maturity date. The amounts disclosed represent the contracted (based on the 
earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay) undiscounted cash flows. 
2013 
Carrying
amount
$’000
Contractual
cash flows
$’000
Within 1 
year 
$’000 
1–2 
years 
$’000 
2–5
years
$’000
More than
5 years
$’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities  
Trade and other payables 91,899 91,899 91,324 126 93 356
Obligations under finance leases – – – – – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 44,544 45,352 1,255 – 44,097 –
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps – – – – – –
 
2012 
Carrying
amount
$’000
Contractual
cash flows
$’000
Within 1 
year 
$’000 
1–2 
years 
$’000 
2–5
years
$’000
More than
5 years
$’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities  
Trade and other payables 107,433 107,433 106,727 450 80 176
Obligations under finance leases 117 122 122 – – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 39,818 41,061 2,398 – 38,663 –
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps 54 54 54 – – –
The Group had available to it, $26,541,000 of undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at 31 March 2013 (2012: $30,950,000). 
   110
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2013 (52 weeks ended 1 April 2012) 
33. Contingent liabilities 
As a global group, subsidiary companies, in the normal course of business, engage in significant levels of cross-border trading. 
The customs, duties and sales tax regulations associated with these transactions are complex and often subject to interpretation. 
While the Group places considerable emphasis on compliance with such regulations, including appropriate use of external legal 
advisors, full compliance with all customs, duty and sales tax regulations cannot be guaranteed. 
The Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Group companies. The Company considers 
these to be insurance arrangements and treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that 
the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
34. Related party transactions 
Group 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this section of the note. 
Compensation of key management – Directors of Parent Company 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Short term employee benefits 2,014 1,504
Post-employment benefits 304 184
Share-based payments 849 2,800
 3,167 4,488
In addition to the above, $250,000 (2012: $nil) has been expensed in the period for severance costs. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share 
options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and interests for the period are provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 56. 
On 23 August 2011, Andrew Cherry fully repaid an advance of $105,535 (£65,505) from the Volex Group Employee Share Trust. This advance 
had been issued on 4 March 2011 and had been outstanding as at 3 April 2011.  
Company 
During the period the Company levied the following charges on its subsidiary undertakings: 
 
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Management fees 3,975 17,188
Royalty fees 4,339 4,790
Interest 157 159
 8,471 22,137
Amounts due to and from subsidiary undertaking are shown in Notes 18 and 21. 
The Company had an interest free loan of $4,253,000 (2012: $4,830,000) and $380,000 (2012: $400,000) to the Volex Group plc Employee 
Share Trust (‘EST’) and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust (‘GPT’) respectively. The EST and GPT used these funds to acquire shares 
in the Company to satisfy future employee exercises of long term incentive awards under the Group’s various incentive schemes. As at 
31 March 2013, the EST held 4,050,598 (2012: 4,866,815) shares and the GPT held 1,005,000 (2012: 1,005,000) shares.  
On 23 August 2011, the EST fully repaid an interest free loan of $105,535 (£65,505) from the Company. This loan had been issued on 
4 March 2011 and had been outstanding as at 3 April 2011.  111
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Principal operating subsidiaries 
United Kingdom 
Volex Powercords Europe is a trading division of Volex plc. 
Volex Group Holdings Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Volex plc which is registered in England and Wales and which acts as 
a holding Company, as detailed below. 
Overseas 
The principal overseas subsidiary undertakings, the business of which is the manufacture and/or sale of interconnect and cable assembly 
products, all of which are wholly owned, are as follows: 
Name of entity Notes Country of incorporation/registration and operation
Volex Pte Ltd 1 Singapore
Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 5 Singapore
PT Volex Indonesia 7 Indonesia
PT Volex Cable Assembly 7 Indonesia
Volex Cable Assemblies (Phils) Inc. 2 Philippines
Volex Japan KK 2 Japan
Volex (Taiwan) Co. Ltd 2 Taiwan
Volex (Thailand) Co. Ltd 2 Thailand
Volex Cable Assembly (Vietnam) Pte Ltd 2 Vietnam
Volex Cable Assemblies Sdn Bhd 3 Malaysia
Volex Cables (HK) Ltd 3 Hong Kong
Volex Interconnect (India) Pvt Ltd 8 India
Volex Interconnect Systems (Suzhou) Co. Ltd 3 China
Volex Cable Assembly (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd 3 China
Volex Cable Assembly (Zhongshan) 3 China
Volex Holdings Inc 1 USA
Volex Inc. 4 USA
Volex Canada Inc. 1 Canada
Volex de Mexico SA de CV 6 Mexico
Volex do Brasil Ltda 9 Brazil
Volex Europe Ltd 3 Ireland
Volex Poland SP z.o.o 9 Poland
Volex Sweden AB 1 Sweden
1. Interests held by Volex plc 
2. Interests held by Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 
3. Interests held by Volex Group Holdings Limited 
4. Interest held by Volex Holdings Inc 
5. Interest held by Volex Pte Ltd 
6. Interest held by Volex Holdings Inc and Volex Inc 
7. Interest held by Volex Pte Ltd and Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 
8. Interest held by Volex Plc and Volex Group Holdings Limited 
9. Interest held by Volex Plc and Volex (No. 4) Limited  112
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements
Five year summary 
 
Results 
Unaudited
IFRS
2013
$’000
Unaudited 
IFRS 
2012 
$’000 
Unaudited 
IFRS 
2011 
$’000 
Unaudited
IFRS
2010
$’000
Unaudited
IFRS
2009
$’000
Revenue – total Group 
473,154 517,769 490,009 365,437 516,710
Revenue from continuing operations 
473,154 517,769 490,009 365,437 451,429
Revenue from discontinued operations 
– – 
– –
65,281
Gross margin – total Group 
83,171 97,529 92,069 73,665 69,423
Gross margin from continuing operations 
83,171 97,529 92,069 73,665 70,544
Gross margin from discontinued operations 
– – 
– –
(1,121)
Operating expenses – total Group 
(78,976) (74,491) (68,596) (57,309) (64,924)
Operating expenses from continuing operations 
(78,976) (74,491) (68,596) (57,309) (59,257)
Operating expenses from discontinued operations 
– – 
– –(5,667)
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 – total Group 
12,342 32,004 26,075 21,313 11,284
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 from continuing operations 
12,342 32,004 26,075 21,313 18,072
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 from discontinued operations – – – –
(6,788)
Operating exceptional items (7,966) (4,990) 
– 
(4,943) (6,988)
Share-based payment (charge)/credit (181) (3,976) (2,602) (14) 203
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 
1,926 19,211  20,312 11,028 6,228
Depreciation and amortisation – continuing operations 
5,943 3,603 3,431 3,610 3,386
 
 Cents Cents Cents Cents Cents
Basic normalised earnings/(loss) per share – total Group
(ii)
 11.4 43.7 33.7 23.5 16.8
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total Group (1.6) 30.4 29.3 14.8 (50.8)
 
Statement of financial position $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Non-current assets 
52,107 31,645
20,173 16,034 16,548
Other assets and liabilities 
13,039 16,024
25,561 14,655 14,483
 
65,146 47,669
45,734 30,689 31,031
Less net debt 
(19,500) 3,643
(7,448) (11,485) (21,793)
Net assets 
45,646 51,312
38,286 19,204 9,238
Gearing 
43% –
19% 60% 236%
(i) Defined as operating profit before non-recurring items and share-based payment charge. 
(ii) Defined as earnings/(loss) per share before share-based payments, loss on disposal of operations and non-recurring items. 
  113
Volex plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
As part of our desire to reduce our 
environmental impact, you can view  
key information on our website at  
www.volex.com.
Our Investor Relations section includes 
information such as the most recent  
news items, results presentations, 
annual and interim reports, share-price 
performance and contact information.
Shareholder information Reducing our 
environmental impact
Paper information 
This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is 
certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
. The paper is made 
at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management 
system accreditation. This report was printed by Pureprint Group 
using their pureprint environmental print technology which minimises 
the negative environmental impacts of the printing process. Printed 
using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certiﬁed 
to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to 
EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Design and production 
Radley Yeldar
Registered ofﬁce  
and advisors
Registered ofﬁce
10 Eastbourne Terrace, London, W2 6LG, UK
www.volex.com
Registered number
158956 (Registered in England and Wales)
Registrars
Capita Registrars plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU
www.capita-irg.com
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc  
Clydesdale Bank plc  
HSBC Bank plc
Stockbrokers
Investec Securities 
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitors
Travers Smith LLP  
Hogan Lovells LLP
Financial PR
Tulchan Communications LLP
Financial calendar
2013/14 
Interim results announced w/c 28 October 2013 
Year end 30 March 2014 
Final results announced w/c 26 May 2014
2014/15 
Interim results announced w/c 27 October 2014 
Year end 29 March 2015 
Final results announced w/c 25 May 2015
Read more online  
www.volex.com Volex plc 
10 Eastbourne Terrace 
London W2 6LG 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 3370 8830 
F +44 (0)20 3370 8831
www.volex.com
