 The Power 
behind  
the Power
Volex plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Volex plc
10 Eastbourne Terrace 
London W2 6LG 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 3370 8830 
F +44 (0)20 3370 8831
www.volex.com
Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
In this year’s report
Contents
Overview
01 What we do
10 Highlights
11 Chairman’s letter
12 Volex at a glance
14 Our business model
14 Our strategic drivers
16 Our measurements of success
Business review
18 Chief Executive’s market and performance review
22 Operating review
22  Consumer
24  Telecoms/Datacoms
26  Healthcare
28  Industrial
30  Manufacturing operations and supply chain
31  Technology
33  People, processes, platforms
34 Financial review
40 Group risk management
45 Corporate responsibility
Governance
47 Chairman’s introduction to governance 
48 Board of Directors
50 Corporate governance report
56 Directors’ remuneration report
66 Directors’ report
73 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements
75 Consolidated income statement
76  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
77  Consolidated and Company statement of 
financial position
78  Consolidated and Company statement 
of changes in equity
79  Consolidated and Company statement 
of cash flows
80 Notes to the financial statements
123 Principal operating subsidiaries
124 Five year summary
125 Shareholder information
Shareholder information Reducing our 
Environmental Impact
As part of our desire to reduce our 
environmental impact, you can view  
key information on our website at  
www.volex.com.
Our Investor Relations section includes 
information such as the most recent  
news items, results presentations, 
annual and interim reports, share-price 
performance and contact information.
Paper information 
This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is 
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
. The paper is made 
at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management 
system accreditation. This report was printed by Pureprint 
Group using their pureprint environmental print technology 
which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the 
printing process. Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental 
management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
Design and production 
Radley Yeldar
Read more online  
www.volex.com
http://www.volex.com
Registered office 
and advisors
Registered office
10 Eastbourne Terrace, London, W2 6LG, UK
www.volex.com
Registered number
158956 (Registered in England and Wales)
Registrars
Capita Registrars plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU
www.capita-irg.com
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc  
Clydesdale Bank plc  
HSBC Bank plc
Stockbrokers
Investec Securities 
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitors
Travers Smith LLP  
Hogan Lovells LLP
Financial PR
Buchanan Communications Limited
Financial calendar
2012/13 
Interim results announced w/c 29 October 2012
Year end 31 March 2013
Final results announced w/c 27 May 2013
2013/14 
Interim results announced w/c 28 October 2013
Year end 30 March 2014
Final results announced w/c 26 May 2014
125 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview
01 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
What we do
In this day and age, simply flipping a switch 
or pressing a button unleashes extraordinary 
new ways to communicate with others, entertain 
ourselves, collaborate with co-workers, care for 
our health – even drive a car. 
These new products have a powerful impact on our 
lives. But they demand increasingly sophisticated 
means of connectivity and power themselves. In fact, 
how you engineer the data connection and power 
supply can influence just how much innovation and 
performance these products can offer.
This is why Volex works so closely with our customers. 
It’s why we have brought on first-class design and 
application engineers and are re-tooling our 
production facilities. Because, without our engineering 
innovation and manufacturing prowess, all these “next 
big things” don’t even get off the ground.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
02 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Consumers are putting a premium 
on design. They’re willing to pay 
more for good looks, as well as for 
greater performance or functionality. 
And nowhere is this truer than in 
mobile devices – or pervasive 
computing, as it’s called – where your 
device speaks volumes about you. 
Of course, if that mobile device doesn’t 
stay put for a while and get powered 
up, it’s going nowhere. And that’s 
where Volex-engineered solutions 
come in.
Great 
design 
has 
become 
pervasive
Consumer
Overview
03 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements Governance Business review Overview It’s all about how good a connection 
you have. How much traffic can you 
handle? How fast can you transmit it? 
How clean is the signal at maximum 
speeds? Convergence and “the cloud” 
are creating an entirely new world in 
the Telecoms/Datacoms sector, but 
the common denominator is high 
signal integrity at high speeds – 
and the interconnects to support this 
performance come from some of 
the best signal-integrity engineers 
in the business.
Sending 
a clear 
message
Telecoms/Datacoms
Overview
04 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview
05 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
06 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The MRI machine has been around 
for 40 years. But not this MRI machine. 
This is a digital MRI, introduced in late 
2010. Its image quality is profoundly 
improved, aiding accurate diagnosis. 
Its speed is enhanced, reducing the 
amount of time a patient is confined 
inside. It is a major innovation in 
magnetic resonance imaging and 
patient care – but without the high-
quality interconnect components, there 
would be no images at all.
Get the 
picture?
Healthcare
Overview
07 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
08 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Do you have any idea how precise this 
machine has to be? How many times 
per minute it has to place a small 
object in exactly the right spot – one 
micron off point and it’s a failure? This 
is here rugged-yet-flexible fabrication 
meets meticulous engineering. And how 
many times have we delivered for this 
customer? Enough that they have now 
standardised their designs on Volex-
engineered solutions.
Getting it 
spot-on
Industrial
Overview
09 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
10 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Highlights
Financial highlights
Further strengthened sales, 
technology and operations 
functions and additional 
investment made in our 
manufacturing facilities. Well 
positioned for further growth.
Significant progress in 
developing our relationship with 
our biggest customer, resulting 
in increased allocations.
Developed enhanced 
thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) 
and halogen-free material 
handling capability, for use in 
other commercial applications 
and potential new markets.
Greater embedding of engineers 
at customer sites improving our 
customer solutions and enabling 
the development of new 
products, such as digital 
broadband MRI solutions 
in the Healthcare sector.
Step change achieved in our 
continuing IT infrastructure 
programme, bringing benefits 
across all functions.
New global culture initiative 
launched to support the 
execution of our strategy.
Operational highlights
Revenue Normalised
(i)
 gross margin Normalised
(i)
 operating profit
$517 .8m
+6%
2011: $490.0m 
19.8%
+1%
2011: 18.8%
$32.0m
+23%
2011: $26.1m 
Statutory operating profit of $23.0m 
(FY2011: $23.5m)
Normalised
(i)
 diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Return on capital employed
(iii)
Free cash flow
(ii)
Dividend
Net cash
42.4 cents
+31%
2011: 32.4 cents 
Basic EPS of 30.4 cents, up 4% 
(FY2011: 29.3 cents)
58%
+13%
2011: 45%
$18.3m
+$12.5m
2011: $5.8m
4.5 cents
final dividend of 3.0 cents proposed 
2011: 2.0 pence
$3.6m
+$11.0m
at 1st April 2012 
3 April 2011: net debt of $7 .4m
(i)  Normalising for non-recurring items and  
share-based payments.
(ii)  Free cash flow defined as net cash flow before 
dividends, payments to acquire own shares, 
refinancing costs paid and cash flows arising  
on disposal of operations.
(iii)  Return on capital employed defined as normalised 
operating profit divided by net trading assets, where 
net trading assets is the aggregate of intangible 
assets (excluding goodwill), tangible fixed assets, 
inventory and trade and other receivables less trade 
and other payables.  Overview
11 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s letter
I am delighted to report another year of revenue and profit 
growth, particularly in view of the challenging macro-economic 
environment. Equally pleasing is the significant progress we have 
made in our continuing transformation to a customer-focused and 
innovation-driven organisation. As a result of this, we believe your 
Company is well positioned, both operationally and financially, 
to deliver on its future growth plans. 
Resilient growth
Revenue of $518m was 6% ahead of last year (FY2011: $490m), 
with normalised gross margin* up to 19.8%, from 18.8% in FY2011. 
This margin growth helped to increase normalised operating 
profit* to $32.0m, an improvement of 23% over FY2011, despite 
important investments, particularly in the sales, operations and 
technology functions. Normalised earnings per share* increased 
by 31% to 42.4 cents (FY2011: 32.4 cents). The non-recurring start-up 
costs of $5.0m related to the introduction of new product lines 
for our largest customer has advanced our competitive position 
with this customer and generated a substantial step-up in our 
engineering, manufacturing and quality control capabilities. 
These undertakings will support the development of a higher-
margin product portfolio, one of our core corporate goals. 
Investing for further growth
To achieve the foundation for continued substantial, sustainable 
and profitable growth, the Company has made further targeted 
investments in people, platforms and processes. During the year, 
we augmented and restructured our sales organisation, under 
the leadership of a new Chief Sales and Marketing Officer. We 
have also enhanced our technology function, in order to better 
support innovation, improve our new-product development 
capability, and  to ensure we are better placed to fully exploit 
revenue opportunities with existing customers. The continuing 
roll-out of LEAN manufacturing techniques, increased capital 
expenditure in our factories, and advancing the global employee 
culture initiative are further examples of the important investments 
made this year that will deliver growing returns in the future.
Increased dividend
Taking into account the strength of these results and our 
confidence in the future prospects of the Company, the Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 3 cents per share, increasing the full 
year dividend to 4.5 cents (FY2011: 2.0 pence), to be paid after 
obtaining shareholder approval at the AGM on 26 July 2012. 
People
We continue to recognise that people will be the biggest 
determinant of our success. In addition to the vital new hires 
referenced above, the Company has made a significant 
commitment to a global cultural transformation programme that 
we hope will not only deliver better customer outcomes, but also 
help to make the organisation a more rewarding place to work.
On 2 May 2012, we were pleased to invite David McKinney to join 
the Board as Chief Operating Officer, a new Executive Director 
position. David was Chief Operating Officer of Pace plc from 
2005 to 2012, and brings a wealth of operational and business 
experience which will be of great value to the Board in this next 
phase of the Company’s development. On the same day, 
Paul Mountford resigned from the Board of Directors, due to 
the demanding time commitments of his primary role at Cisco 
Systems, Inc. The Board will miss the insights that he provided 
and we thank him for the contributions he made during his 
time with the Company.
Again, it is our pleasure to acknowledge the skills and dedication 
of employees throughout the Company, who have once more 
produced an exceptional performance. Their skills are the real 
assets of our Company and we would like to thank them for their 
valued contributions. 
Outlook
The Board is pleased to have reported another year of very good 
results. It is particularly encouraging that the Company has 
delivered this strong financial performance while making 
substantial investments for the future and at a time of economic 
uncertainty. We are confident that our strategy of unwavering 
customer focus, greater innovation, and operational excellence 
will deliver significant returns for shareholders.
We enter FY2013 with positive momentum and are well-positioned 
to generate continued growth in revenues, margins and profit, in 
line with management’s expectations.
Mike McTighe 
Chairman
* Before non-recurring items and share based payments (see note 7 to the Financial Statements)
We believe your Company is well 
positioned, both operationally 
and financially, to deliver on its 
future growth plans.
Mike McTighe 
Chairman
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
12 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Volex at a glance
Volex provides high-quality electrical and optical connection solutions to customers around 
the world. We work closely with our customers throughout their product development cycles 
to design, develop and manufacture connection solutions that meet their specific business 
requirements. Our customers are equipment manufacturers in 4 market sectors: Consumer, 
Telecoms/Datacoms, Healthcare and Industrial.
Our customers are manufacturers of vital equipment 
used in telecoms networks, data centres and 
high-performance computing centres. Our solutions 
are geared to the need for increasing rates of data 
transmission, delivered in sufficient volume to support 
ongoing roll-out of infrastructure in many countries.
Market drivers
 – Smartphone-led demand for 
internet services accessed over 
mobile-phone networks – 
leading to deployment of 3G 
and 4G/LTE networks.
 – Ongoing build out of 
mobile phone networks 
in developing countries.
 – Demand for data centres 
driven by increasing consumer 
internet traffic (e.g. search; 
video; uploading to social 
networking sites).
 – IT data and applications for 
enterprises being hosted in 
the network ‘cloud’.
Key products
 – High-speed copper cable 
assemblies.
 – QSFP-FDR data rate. 
 – High-density miniSAS.
 – Industry-standard input/output 
(I/O) cable assemblies.
Customer successes
 – Brought on-stream a  
supply-centre in Mexico for 
a major Chinese telecoms-
infrastructure manufacturer.
 – Won new business supplying 
QSFP-FDR and fan-out cable 
assemblies to a leading 
US internet services provider.
 – Engaged with the Chinese 
R&D-centre for a leading 
European telecoms 
infrastructure manufacturer 
to design cables for TD-LTE 
network equipment.
Telecoms/Datacoms
Contribution to Group Revenue %
$ 99.4m 
(2011: $ 109.9m)
–10%
Consumer
Our customers are manufacturers of electrical and 
electronic devices and appliances, primarily for consumer 
markets but also for business users. Our products are 
used in laptops, PCs and tablets, printers, TVs, DVDs, 
games consoles, power tools, kitchen appliances and 
floor cleaning equipment.
Market drivers
 – Growth in new product 
categories e.g. tablet computers, 
3D-TVs, next-generation 
games consoles.
 – Demand for environmentally-
friendly components, 
e.g. halogen-free cabling.
 – Manufacturers choosing global, 
high-quality suppliers over 
low-cost local suppliers.
Key products
 – Halogen-free power cords.
 – 2nd-generation  
duck-head plugs.
 – Customer joint designed 
power cords.
 – Customer joint designed 
duck heads.
Customer successes
 – Succeeded in supplying 
halogen-free power cords to 
a leading consumer brand 
for their new touch-screen 
tablet products.
 – Involving the customer in joint 
product development to ensure 
business longevity and loyalty.
 – Succeeded in supplying jointly 
developed power cords to a 
leading domestic appliance 
company in its new fan and 
heater products. 
Contribution to Group Revenue %
$ 330.4m 
(2011: $ 304.3m)
+9% Overview
13 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
 Global headquarters
  London 
United Kingdom
 Manufacturing units
 Brazil Jacarei
 China  Shenzhen, 
  Zhongshan, Suzhou
 India Chennai 
Indonesia Batam 
Mexico Tijuana 
Poland Bydgoszcz 
Vietnam Ha Noi
 Sales/Engineering units
 Canada Ottawa 
 China Hong Kong, 
  Beijing
 Ireland Castlebar 
 Japan Yokohama, 
  Osaka
 Malaysia Selangor
Philippines Laguna 
Singapore
Taiwan Taipei 
Thailand Bangkok
Turkey Istanbul
USA Hickory, NC, 
 Indianapolis, IN 
Healthcare
Volex supplies to large and medium-sized manufacturers 
of critical medical equipment such as Imaging systems 
(MRI scanners, X-Ray), Clinical Diagnostics systems, and 
Patient Monitoring systems. The sector is characterised 
by extended product development cycles and long 
product lifetimes, requiring long-term partner 
relationships with vendors.
Market drivers
 – Increasing demand for 
healthcare services from 
growing ‘middle classes’ 
in China, India, and other 
fast-developing countries.
 – Ageing populations in 
developed countries placing 
increased demand on 
healthcare providers, in turn 
driving need for efficiency 
through automation.
 – Increased emphasis on 
monitoring and early diagnosis, 
to avoid cost of treating 
acute conditions.
Key products
 – Complex customised 
medical harnesses.
 – MR coil cables.
 – Internal and external 
defibrillator paddles.
 – Blood-pressure 
transducer cables.
 – Hospital grade powercords.
 – Optical fibre solutions.
Customer successes
 – Partnered with a global provider 
of kidney dialysis equipment, 
engaging in early design and 
development of cabling 
solutions for its new acute 
care platform.
 – Provided on-site engineering to 
a leading customer to develop 
a complex harness solution 
for a new interventional X-ray 
system positioned as an 
‘economy’ solution for 
emerging Asian markets.
Contribution to Group Revenue %
$ 51.7m 
(2011: $ 41.5m)
+24%
Industrial
Volex supplies to customers in a range of industrial 
segments including vehicle telematics, solar power, 
agricultural equipment and manufacturing  
automation/robotics.
Market drivers
 – Private and public investment 
in renewable energy such as 
solar power.
 – Enhanced manufacturing 
efficiency and quality through 
investment in automation.
 – Growth in trucking telematics 
enabling fleets to boost 
productivity and enhance safety.
Key products
 – Complex cable assembly 
harnesses, tailored to specific 
types of industrial equipment.
 – Standard input/output (I/O) 
cable assemblies.
Customer successes
 – Long-term reliable, ruggedised 
product for OEM supplying 
commercial-vehicle 
telematics solution.
 – Strengthened relationship 
supplying cable harnesses to 
OEM manufacturing test and 
measurement equipment 
used by consumer 
electronics manufacturers.
 – Rugged cable harnesses 
and connectors for use with 
actuators and sensors, 
supplied to agricultural 
equipment manufacturer. 
Contribution to Group Revenue %
$ 36.3m 
(2011: $ 34.2m)
+6%
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
14 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Our business  
model
Volex’s business model is based on adding value 
to customer product lifecycles, delivered through 
our expertise in design and development, 
manufacturing and testing, and excellent 
service from a global footprint.
Investing in the business
Account Management
Our strategic  
drivers
1 Selling unique solutions
Engage strongly with customers to engineer, develop and 
manufacture interconnect and power cord products that 
solve customers’ connection issues and priorities.
Example: 
A new copper-based data interconnect has great 
appeal to customers wanting to cost-efficiently improve 
data-centre performance.
Benefits to Volex
 – Identify and target industry-leading customers for deep 
engagement, prioritising our resources to realise the full 
opportunity available to Volex.
 – Engage with customers and understand deeply their 
specific requirements. Work with technical and product 
development teams to identify connection solutions for 
specific business requirements.
2 Increasing Volex content
Develop and acquire core technology competencies 
that can be applied to customers’ business requirements.
Example: 
For an MRI customer, design-in capabilities allowed 
us to double the Volex content in their latest model.
Benefits to Volex
 – Collaborate in customers’ entire product design and 
development process, leveraging our expertise and 
intellectual property.
 – Align our technology roadmaps with those 
of the customer.
 – Engage with the customers at an early stage of their 
product development cycles.
At Volex we strive to be 
key partners in our clients’ 
product development 
lifecycle. This is underpinned 
by our five strategic drivers 
which aim to identify and 
deliver valuable interconnect 
solutions for our customers, 
while increasing efficiencies 
and profitability across 
the Group.
Investing in assets such as manufacturing 
sites, tooling equipment, design software, 
and improved IT infrastructure. Net Capex  
in FY2012 was $12.4m. 
We engage with our customers in long-term business 
relationships to understand their specific business 
requirements, so that our whole service aligns with 
their own business objectives.
We use our global technical and commercial 
expertise to design interconnect solutions that 
meet customers’ specific business requirements. 
We develop a manufacturing approach, using 
our process and tooling expertise, to produce 
product samples for validating all 
performance requirements.
Customer outcomes
 – High-performing interconnects enabling 
high performance by customer’s equipment;
 – Allow own engineering staff to focus on core issues.
Volex outcomes
 – Positioned as technical expert for interconnects;
 – Early engagement in customers’ own 
design/ development cycles.
We manage, on behalf of our customers, the 
sourcing of all required components for their 
connection solutions.
We arrange for the supply of raw materials and 
components offering the best performance in 
terms of cost, quality, and delivery response times.
We work with our suppliers to achieve a high 
standard of business conduct.
Customer outcomes
 – Best quality, cost, lead-time for interconnect 
components;
 – Access to Volex expertise in managing interconnect 
supply chain.
Volex outcomes
 – Deeper engagement and trust with customer;
 – Best quality/cost components used, enabling 
price-competitiveness to our customers.
Design & Development Supply Chain Management Overview
15 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
We aim for ‘trusted partner’ status with our customers 
whereby we can engage with their product development 
cycles at an early stage, to provide solutions that meet their 
specific requirements for product performance and quality, 
greater efficiency and timely delivery.
Customer outcomes
 – Trusted supplier;
 – Supplier who can ‘add value’ based on strong 
knowledge of business;
 – Supplier aligned with customer’s own objectives.
Investing in people & culture: getting the right 
people on board, and enabling training and 
development for all staff.
Volex outcomes
 – Long-term, partnership relationship;
 – New business opportunities.
3 Manufacturing excellence
Exceed customer expectations for product fit, form 
and function and timely delivery, with greater efficiency 
and reduced waste to enhance Volex’s profitability. 
Continually improve manufacturing operations to 
deliver increasing value to the customer and Volex.
Example: 
Upgrading equipment, processes and training enabled 
the Group to meet unprecedentedly rigorous demands 
from our largest customer.
Benefits to Volex
 – Embed a ‘continuous-improvement’ culture across 
Volex’s manufacturing operations by systematically 
identifying and removing waste to reduce costs and 
increase profitability.
 – Drive product quality and productivity through enhanced 
technology and process.
4 Supply chain optimisation
Drive cost reduction, on-time delivery and enhanced 
quality through our supply chain. Deliver flexible and 
scalable logistics and procurement capabilities to achieve 
customers’ geographic and volume requirements.
Example: 
A supply chain that supports just-in-time manufacturing 
is critical for single-sourcing customers, like the floor-care 
customer who gave 100% of their power cord/harness 
business to us.
Benefits to Volex
 – Operate a flexible supply chain that is responsive to 
our requirements on behalf of our customers. Establish 
closer strategic ties with selected suppliers that transcend 
transactional business, while delivering a reduction in the 
overall number of suppliers.
 – Achieve lowest possible input costs for Volex for raw 
materials and standard components. Engage with 
suppliers to reduce volatility in future input costs.
 – Minimise inventory requirements to reduce working 
capital to industry-leading levels.
5  Global manufacturing footprint
Maintain production facilities on four continents in order to 
be a ‘local’ supplier to customers and better support their 
own lean manufacturing and speed-to-market objectives.
Example: 
When a consumer-electronics customer went through 
major supplier-consolidation, our global manufacturing 
footprint was a factor in keeping their business.
Benefits to Volex
 – Positions Volex as possible supplier-of-choice to major 
customers who need to operate globally.
 – Provides flexibility in the face of customer-demand spikes 
or during times of Volex facility upgrades.
Return to Shareholders
In 2011, as a result of confidence in the Group’s 
prospects, Volex resumed payments of dividends 
(2.0 pence per share). For FY2012 the Board is 
recommending a full-year dividend  
of 4.5 cents per share.
We manufacture and test interconnect and power 
cord products according to customer requirements 
for volume, quality, lead-time, and price.
We manufacture products we have designed 
internally or from 3rd-party designs.
Our global manufacturing footprint and  
hubs enable localised production and effective 
inventory control.
Customer outcomes
 – High-quality interconnects delivered at required 
volumes and deadlines; 
 – Interconnects that meet or exceed the technical 
performance requirements.
Volex outcomes
 – Achieve the required technical performance of 
interconnects we deliver;
 – Achieve the order volumes, dates and quality that 
customers demand.
Our service to customers provides flexibility 
in meeting customers’ delivery requirements 
(dates, volumes and locations).
 
 
 
Customer outcomes
 – Effective supply lead-times for interconnects,  
delivered to sites in different regions.
Volex outcomes
 – Fulfil orders on time, to different regions.
Manufacturing & Testing Logistics & Delivery
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Overview
16 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
+6%
FY10 365
FY11 490
FY12 518
Revenue by sector annual, $m
Telecoms/Datacoms
Consumer Healthcare
Industrial
0 100 200 300 400 500
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Q1 FY11 19.7
Q2 FY11 19.6
Q3 FY11 18.0
Q4 FY11 18.0
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
19.0
20.3
19.4
20.5
Group gross margin quarterly, %
0 5 10 15 20
Q1 FY11 5.9
Q2 FY11 6.8
Q3 FY11 6.3
Q4 FY11 7.0
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
6.8
9.5
7.1
8.6
Normalised operating proﬁt quarterly, $m
0 2 4 6 8 10
Our measurements of success
Volex has performed well during FY2012, despite the challenging macro-economic 
environment, delivering revenue and profit well ahead of last year. Recognising the 
increased investment we have made in FY2012, and will continue to make in future as we 
continue on our transformation programme, we have added two new financial KPIs this 
year, free cash flow and return on capital employed, to improve our tracking of progress 
against our evolving strategic objectives.
Financial KPIs
Q1 FY11 111.9
Q2 FY11 126.4
Q3 FY11 125.2
Q4 FY11 126.5
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
126.1
144.6
125.1
122.0
Group quarterly revenue by sector, $m
Telecoms/Datacoms
Consumer Healthcare
Industrial
0 30 60 90 120 150
FY10 20.2
FY11 18.8
FY12 19.8
Group gross margin annual, %
0 5 10 15 20 25
+1.0%
FY2012 gross margin growth
FY10 21.3
FY11 26.1
FY12 32.0
Normalised operating proﬁt annual, $m
0 5 10 15 30 25 20 35
+23%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth Overview
17 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Q1 FY11 2.7
Q2 FY11 -6.9
Q3 FY11 6.2
Q4 FY11 3.8
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
1.3
0.1
12.9
4.0
Free cash ﬂow quarterly, $m
-8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
Q1 FY11 50
Q2 FY11 46
Q3 FY11 45
Q4 FY11 48
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
44
59
54
63
Return on capital employed (ROCE) quarterly, %
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Non-financial KPIs
In addition, the Company has acknowledged certain non-financial areas that 
will become increasingly important as we seek to fulfil the Company’s true potential. 
As a result, four new non-financial KPIs are being developed and these will be 
reported in our FY2013 Annual Report. 
Area Measure
Customer centricity Satisfaction score from customer survey
Innovation New product/customer introductions
Culture Score from internal employee culture survey
Enterprise excellence Quantitative operational excellence metric
FY10 16.1
FY11 5.8
FY12 18.3
Free cash ﬂow annual, $m
0 5 15 10 20
+212%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
FY10 41
FY11 45
FY12 58
Return on capital employed (ROCE) annual, %
0 15 45 30 60
+13%
FY2012 ROCE growth
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
18 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s market 
and performance review
We have laid the 
foundation for even 
more robust growth.
Ray Walsh 
Group Chief Executive
Our FY2011 annual report was entitled ‘Building for the Future’ – 
and we vigorously pursued that objective during the financial 
year. We have laid the foundation for greater growth by hiring 
top-level talent in operations, engineering, and sales and 
marketing that will maximise the potential of our enhanced 
capabilities, improve our IT platforms and upgrade and expand 
our production facilities.
Deliver on our strategy 
Our primary objective is very simple and straightforward: deliver 
competitive advantage for our customers. For the past three years, 
the driving strategy for fulfilling that objective was to bridge the 
gap from being a price-sensitive, commodity supplier to a 
full-service supplier with high-end engineering expertise, a 
diversified product line, and the ability to help our customers 
succeed in their own marketplace.
This strategy demands that we add value for our customers, not 
simply fulfil a supplier contract. It’s a very different way of thinking 
and working from where we were a few years ago, when we were 
generally a second-source supplier to the firms who owned the 
engineering relationship. We have improved supply assurance so 
our customers know what they can count on in their own 
manufacturing schedules. And we are driving substantial 
improvements in production cycle-times in order to enhance our 
customers’ own speed-to-market.
The cultural transformation under way at Volex has been 
beneficial. We can’t make Volex’s performance transformation 
happen if only a few people are operating at the highest level; 
we need all 8,000 Volex employees focusing on the needs of the 
customer, on delivering higher-quality products, on continuously 
looking for opportunities to improve. These improvements are 
beginning to take hold. The cultural transformation and training 
at our China facilities, for instance, in combination with major 
upgrades in machines, tooling and plant management, will give 
us truly world-class capabilities in low-cost locations.
Finally, investment in technology upgrades is also playing a 
role, supporting new and more productive ways of working. 
The IT investments have Volex on the road to operating more 
strategically, driving more insightful decision-making and quicker, 
more targeted responsiveness to our customers’ needs. We are 
moving towards greater transparency into our business, which is 
being driven by customers seeking strategic partners rather than 
order-taking suppliers. Operationally, we are working towards 
IT-enabled improvements across virtually every function: supply 
chain systems will eventually be fully integrated; processes are 
being re-engineered and automated; quality assurance is 
enhanced through more reliable testing. The technology 
upgrades in our production facilities, in machines, tooling and 
processes, are also starting to contribute to increased product 
quality, production speed, and our ability to meet tighter and 
more sophisticated specifications. Business review
19 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Focus on customer needs 
What we’re doing is more than just listening to the customer, more 
than just gaining an understanding of their needs. It’s about 
establishing a fully developed strategic partnership, working 
side-by-side through design and development activities to 
co-create interconnect solutions as integral components of our 
customers’ products.
A continuing priority for us is to engage our customers’ senior 
executives ( the ‘C-suite’), moving away from our history of being 
considered a commodity supplier which engages only through 
procurement teams. We challenge C-level officers on how much 
they spend on internal interconnect-design engineers; on how 
much money is at stake if a late cable assembly delays a product 
launch; and on how often they have problems with the quality of 
products from outsourced vendors. We emphasise our strategic 
commitment to engaging engineer-to-engineer with our 
customers’ own product developers, locating our staff at customer 
sites for extended periods.
Invest in talent 
Much more can be done when you have the right people – and 
we’re bringing in the right people all over the organisation. 
 – Executive management We’ve sought people with 
experience on a global scale, people who know what our 
global clients are looking for, who understand the challenges 
a global client faces and how they must respond to gain 
competitive advantage.
 – Engineering With the design and applications engineers and 
material science specialists we have brought in, we’re able to 
provide new services, develop intellectual property, and 
respond more quickly to customers’ needs.
 – Plant management We have invested in new plant 
management in several facilities, most notably our largest 
facility in Henggang, China.
 – Sales organisation A transformation is afoot here as we are 
bringing in more sales engineers who can talk strategically 
about all aspects of solution development – because part of 
improving a customer’s speed-to-market is how quickly we can 
put an engineer on the ground to convert our customers’ 
concepts into design.
The cultural transformation under way at Volex 
has been beneficial. We can’t make Volex’s 
performance transformation happen if only a few 
people are operating at the highest level – we 
need all 8,000 Volex employees focusing on the 
needs of the customer, on delivering higher-quality 
products, on continuously looking for opportunities 
to improve.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
20 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s market 
and performance review 
continued
Our markets 
We operate in four markets – and they are all in constant flux. 
We have to be able to anticipate those changes and provide 
pre-emptive solutions, not simply react. We are funding new 
engineers across all sectors, developing a quick-response 
mechanism for any emerging strategic opportunity and getting 
our top management more involved further down the client list.
 – Consumer Design has become a differentiating quality in the 
consumer sector. It has to look good. It has to look different. 
No matter what sub-sector of consumer products we work in, 
from personal electronics to vacuum cleaners, the customer 
is looking for a product that does more, with higher quality, 
while looking better – yet is still reasonably priced. Our 
growing expertise and proven track record in design as 
well as advanced materials science are creating new 
opportunities for us. 
 – Telecoms/Datacoms Speed and size are primary concerns 
as the convergence of personal communications and content 
drives consolidation in the marketplace. Globalisation has also 
hit the sector and customers are looking for vendors with a 
global footprint to match their own. Meanwhile, the dominant 
technology that is most influencing the marketplace is cloud 
computing as more and more organisations put their 
applications and information in third-party data centres. 
High-speed data interconnects are a critical need, where for 
example there is a consistent flow of new opportunities for us 
in high-speed copper interconnects for the short-distance 
connections in data centres.
 – Healthcare Image-guided therapies are our strong suit – 
and never more so than now after we brought on some very 
high-powered signal-integrity engineers: signal integrity is 
critical to accurate diagnoses from MRI or ultrasound images. 
Also, the healthcare marketplace continues to be promising as 
demographics and emerging markets drive new opportunities. 
Our enhanced engineering expertise and global footprint is 
laying the groundwork for more design-in contracts with 
customers looking for a single-source supplier.
 – Industrial The industrial sector has become information-driven. 
Whether it’s assembly-line robotics or the multitude of sensors 
placed on the modern truck to feed the driver and operations 
hub with crucial data. This has put a premium on signal 
integrity to ensure the accuracy of the data. Given the diversity 
of harsh environments in which many industrial products must 
operate, and the demands of rapid repetitive movements, our 
ruggedising capabilities and advanced materials science 
expertise are also in growing demand. Business review
21 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
One way to analyse the past year is through revenue growth. 
We achieved a record first half delivering 14% revenue growth. 
The first half provided proof of concept for our strategy: this is what 
we can accomplish when circumstances are under our control. 
We faced headwinds in Europe, the US and China, due to 
customers exercising caution in the face of financial uncertainty, 
while the flooding in Thailand upset the computer hard-drive 
supply chain, constraining production in the consumer market. 
So, while revenue slowed in the second half of FY2012, we ended 
the year with healthy growth of 6% over last year, generating 
revenue of $517 .8m.
There’s an additional critical indicator of the long-term promise 
of our strategy, however: an increase in normalised gross margin. 
One of the practical advantages of focusing on customer needs 
is that it positions us to offer more value – and when we offer 
more value, customers are willing to pay more for our services. 
Our normalised gross margins have been on a longer-term 
upward trend, and margins in FY2012 increased one percentage 
point to 19.8%. This is a trend line that we will continue to work on. 
In addition to our own initiatives to raise our game, the innovators 
among our customers have driven us to acquire capabilities that 
have become potent differentiators that deliver competitive 
advantage. These include high-precision plastic injection 
moulding, high-speed interconnects, medical imaging technology, 
and signal integrity innovation.
You can see the true impact of these new capabilities when 
you look at some of the sector numbers for FY2012. Take the 
Healthcare sector, for instance. While we have begun expanding 
into new sub-sectors, imaging system applications still make up 
the bulk of our business. When the quality and acuity of an image 
can be the difference between life or death, data speed and 
signal integrity are paramount. Our growing expertise in this area 
has led to an increase in design-in work. We now have more 
long-term partnerships, more co-creation initiatives, and have 
seen a jump of 4.1 percentage points in gross margin to 27 .5%.
Signal integrity expertise is just one of those enhanced capabilities 
we have to offer, but it comes into play in each one of our four 
sectors. In the consumer sector, for example, where new 
permutations of connectivity are now increasingly important in 
the personal electronics segment, our profit margin increased 
by 0.3 percentage points to 17 .9%. In the Telecoms/Datacoms 
sector, where high-speed data interconnects are shuttling 
terabytes of mission-critical data between tens of millions of users 
and the cloud, profit margins rose 2.4 percentage points to 21.2%. 
Only in the industrial sector did we see a drop-off in gross 
margins, down 1 percentage point to 22.6% due to lower volumes 
in the third quarter, with annual revenue growing by 6%. 
Compounding these enhanced capabilities with applications 
engineering, global manufacturing footprint, high-end production 
in low-cost locations and attentive and insightful customer 
responsiveness, among other factors, and you can see that we 
are well positioned to continue our impressive growth and 
enhance our status as one of the top-level suppliers worldwide.
Outlook for FY2013 
While we are working hard to climb the ladder to industry 
leadership, we can never feel satisfied that ‘we have arrived.’ 
We will continue to recruit more talented and experienced people. 
We have plans to do a comprehensive overhaul of our 
manufacturing processes over the next several years to continue 
to improve the efficiency of our facilities. We will also continue to 
look for new ways of working with our customers to provide 
greater benefit to them. 
We expect, as a result, to continue to grow our role and expand 
our business with our existing customers, and to secure new 
customers who are looking for the competitive advantages we 
are increasingly able to give them.
Ray Walsh 
Group Chief Executive
FY2012 Performance 
Revenue Normalised Gross Margin
2012  
$’000
2011  
$’000 % Var
2012  
%
2011  
% Var
Consumer 330,372 304,336 9 17.9 17.6 +0.3 pts
Telecoms/Datacoms 99,440 109,948 (10) 21.2 18.8 +2.4 pts
Healthcare 51,663 41,536 24 27.5 23.4 +4.1 pts
Industrial 36,294 34,189 6 22.6 23.6 -1.0 pts
Total 517,769 490,009 6 19.8 18.8 +1.0 pts
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
22 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Consumer
Business focus
The consumer products marketplace for Volex is incredibly diverse: 
 – Computers and printers This sub-sector makes up about 
50% of our sector revenue, with customers representing both 
design-centric and price-sensitive extremes. It also includes 
computing peripherals and smartphones.
 – Consumer electronics With the increasing convergence of 
computing and home entertainment, the LCD televisions and 
DVD players in this consumer category are a natural extension 
for the Group.
 – Domestic appliances Another major sub-sector, this primarily 
includes garment-care products like steam irons, but also 
includes fans, standalone room heaters, and rice-cookers.
 – Floor care Volex makes the power cords and harnesses 
for vacuum cleaners and related floor-care products.
 – Power tools These are home-construction power tools like 
saws and drills, for both the do-it-yourself market and the 
professional user.
Market drivers 
Distinctive design has become a competitive advantage in 
the consumer sector. There is a move to higher quality that 
cuts across all the various sub-sectors, as design is driving 
the consumer experience. Customers are demanding more 
functionality, more portability and more aesthetic quality.
But they also want value for money. Particularly in light of the 
recent challenges to the global economy, cost-reduction remains 
an overarching influence on all markets. In the consumer sector, 
however, there are two distinctive trends at work:
 – Streamlining part numbers Volex customers are streamlining 
the number of parts they use across their range of product 
models, standardising on a few basic designs rather than 
creating multiple variations with insignificant differences. 
This cuts costs – and often makes the consumer shopping 
experience less confusing.
 – OEM outsourcing to ODM Another cost-cutting strategy is 
for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to outsource 
a greater amount of the production to original design 
manufacturers (ODMs) who are already doing a great deal 
of the product production and assembly.
Sometimes the customer just wants to know you 
care. This was the case with the Asia-based 
computer giant for whom Volex had always been 
just another price-sensitive commodity supplier. 
This has changed in the last 18 months, since our 
global account manager, Emily Chan, began 
working more closely with the customer’s global 
commodity manager and upped the ante: if Volex 
gave the customer the top-priority treatment it 
deserved, would it respond by upping the Group’s 
allocation of business?
Through process re-engineering and intensive 
training on customer-centricity, Volex’s focus on 
the customer soared, as did customer satisfaction 
levels. In return, so did the Group’s allocation, with 
global allocation growing from less than 20% to 
more than 40%. Subsequent line additions have 
been made or are in the works. New, much more 
specialised product contracts are also on tap.
The year-on-year revenue growth in FY2012 with 
this customer: 97%.
Behind the scenes Business review
23 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
 – Investment Exceptional start-up costs of $5.0m were 
incurred to enable new product introductions; specifically the 
migration from PVC to halogen-free power cords, combined 
with significantly higher technical and cosmetic standards. 
These new products necessitated wide-ranging improvements 
to our manufacturing know-how and investments in higher 
grade tooling and precision moulding technologies. 
These improvements represent a significant step-up in our 
engineering, manufacturing and quality control capabilities, 
and have served to strengthen the relationship with our 
largest customer.
 – Supplier consolidation The sector team has been successful in 
the face of OEM’s streamlining part numbers and consolidating 
their suppliers. For example, a large customer recently 
consolidated the number of its power cord suppliers from more 
than 10 to only 4; Volex was selected as one of those four, due 
to quality, engineering capabilities, global supply chain 
footprint, and price.
 – Relationship-building with customers and contractors We 
have benefited from stronger relationships with OEM partners, 
which provide a competitive advantage when they pursue 
a strategy of outsourcing to ODMs. With one major OEM 
customer, for example, the Group was able to leverage its 
relationship, which resulted in the OEM insisting that their ODM 
continue to use Volex as the power cord supplier for their LCD 
and LED televisions after moving nearly half of their TV business 
to the ODM.
Outlook for FY2013
The new products developed this past year are platforms for 
major sector growth in FY2013. The introduction of a USB charger 
with a small form factor is a good example. Initially designed for 
a specific OEM, it provides an opportunity for Volex to break into 
the third-party accessory market. Qualities developed for other 
sectors are being applied to our consumer sector to good effect, 
e.g., ruggedising capabilities that were driven by the needs of the 
Industrial sector are now being marketed to – and bought by – 
floor-care customers. High-speed data cables, originally designed 
for the Telecoms/Datacoms sector, are now being applied to TV 
networking customers. Finally, there are opportunities to leverage 
existing OEM relationships to win new work with ODMs after they 
realise the benefits Volex can deliver, particularly since ODMs tend 
to operate as a global supplier and are looking for global 
sub-contractors to supply them.
Product-development and cross-sector marketing opportunities 
like these show great promise for FY2013.
FY2012 Performance
With revenues of $330.4m, the Consumer sector achieved 
9% growth over FY2011. In addition to product line extensions, 
benefits were realised from the move to single-sourcing. 
One major customer, for instance, is moving 100% of its power 
cord and harness business to Volex. Normalised gross margins 
also improved, gaining 0.3 percentage points to 17 .9%. 
Expanding the number of design-in customers, in a sector that 
is increasingly putting a premium on design, is helping to drive 
gross margin gains.
The Group’s customer-centric approach has led to new and 
enhanced capabilities and processes to better meet the needs 
of its customers. Additional factors have also come into play to 
better position Volex for continued growth in years to come. 
Here are a few of the developments of FY2012 that have created 
promise for the future:
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
24 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Telecoms/Datacoms
Business focus
The meteoric rise of data traffic has totally transformed the 
Telecoms/Datacoms sector in recent years – as well as the 
solutions required.
 – Telecommunications The continued growth of the mobile 
communications industry is opening up more opportunities, 
both at the cell site and for the core network and the 
Group continues to provide product for fixed-line 
telecom equipment.
 – Data communications Interconnects are being supplied for 
high-speed computing and data-centre environments.
Market drivers
Convergence and emergence are the dynamic in this sector, as 
telecom and datacom continue to merge, and the rapid growth 
of mobile communications and cloud computing continues.
 – Industry consolidation Telecom giants continue to merge 
in a chase for economies of scale and market expansion. 
Increasingly, however, there has also been cross-sector 
consolidation, as data companies seek infusions of cash 
and telecom companies gain access to new arenas of 
advanced technologies. The outcome is vendor consolidation. 
As global telecom companies achieve their global reach 
through M&A activities, they seek suppliers (such as Volex) 
who operate on a global scale and offer high-end capabilities 
and a comprehensive product line, with whom they can 
establish a single-source supplier partnership.
 – Convergence Emerging platforms, driven in part by the mobile 
sector, are moving towards ultimately supporting a seamless 
integration of voice and data services, and of text, audio and 
video content.
 – Smaller, faster and greener Speed and miniaturisation have 
become high priorities. Analogue interconnects are in decline 
as the switch is made to digital signals. Telecom companies 
are moving predominantly to fibre optics in their networks 
(e.g. fibre to the exchange, FTTX), elevating transmission 
speeds and eliminating bottlenecks. Mobile network base 
stations, while becoming much smaller in size, are working 
at orders-of-magnitude greater speeds. Finally, data-centre 
managers are always looking to address the dual challenges 
of excess heat and greenhouse-gas emissions.
 – Cloud computing Cloud computing has become a major 
phenomenon in both business and consumer computing, 
leading to rapid growth of data centres and a co-incident 
demand for those smaller, faster and greener solutions.
FY2012 Performance
Geographic dynamics and macroeconomic factors played a big 
hand in sector revenues in the year. In the US, the AT&T acquisition 
proposal (for T-Mobile USA) put a great deal of prospective 
business on hold in the second half of the year. In Europe, 
uncertainty brought on by the sovereign debt crises again put 
the brakes on business, particularly in the second half of the year. 
India remained adversely impacted by continued delays in  Business review
25 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
network infrastructure roll-out. Taken together, these factors led 
to a decrease in revenues of 10%, to $99.4m. More positively, 
normalised gross margins increased 2.4 percentage points to 
21.2% as a result of selling more of our higher-margin products, 
due to earlier involvement with customers enabled by the sector’s 
growing design expertise.
There were additional developments during the year that show 
promise for FY2013:
 – New product Volex’s datacoms business benefited in FY2012 
from the introduction of the Group’s QSFP product, which 
exploited an interim move to high-speed copper interconnects 
for short-hop transmissions in data centres as customers looked 
for new cost-cutting measures. Riding the momentum of the 
QSFP wave, Volex is targeting additional major players in the 
data-centre space for new-business opportunities in FY2013.
 – Expertise and capabilities enhancement The Group’s 
continued talent development, particularly in engineering 
resources, will continue to create opportunities. For example, 
for a major Chinese telecoms OEM, Volex was selected in 
FY2012 as the only data-interconnect partner for this telecom 
company’s significant overseas business.
 – Early customer involvement Volex’s move to work more closely 
with the customer is already showing results. There is more 
early involvement in the customers’ strategic R&D process and 
product-design process. The conversations have escalated 
from being primarily with procurement officers, as they once 
were, all the way up to the customers’ CTO: Volex’s role as 
a valued partner is increasing.
Outlook for FY2013
While uncertain market conditions are expected to continue to 
affect levels of investment in the telecoms industry, our sector 
team is well placed to build on the strategies established during 
the year. The high-speed QSFP datacom product will continue to 
be a sought-after solution as we continue to expand the Group’s 
presence in the data-centre sector, while continuing to develop 
more advanced, fibre-based solutions. 
As a result, the Group is winning more contracts for specialised 
products that are further tailored to customers’ needs. In addition 
there are new market opportunities to explore in active optical 
cable assemblies and high-speed input/output cable assemblies 
for 100Gb/s transmission. China is expected to provide significant 
growth opportunities, particularly in the datacom sector.
True collaboration demands a great deal of 
trust. A trust that extends well beyond the formality 
of non-disclosure agreements to a deep belief that 
this particular collaborator is the single best partner 
to help you meet your objective. When you have 
that kind of trust, you realise that you don’t have 
to rely solely on printed product specifications and 
conference calls to get precisely what you want.
That is the kind of trust a leading datacom provider 
had with Volex. They wanted to know exactly how 
their product would perform with the Volex solution 
in place. So they actually shipped their product to 
the Group’s Chinese production facility so that Volex 
engineers could meticulously customise the testing 
process – and give them the high-performance 
data-transmission interconnect that has helped 
make them a leading datacom provider.
Behind the scenes
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
26 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Healthcare
Business focus
The Group’s primary focus in the Healthcare sector has 
traditionally been in imaging systems, such as MRIs and 
ultrasound machines, which represents approximately 70% of 
revenues for the sector. Overall, Volex’s activity extends across 
several medical segments:
 – Imaging systems which encompass magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI), X-ray, ultrasound, nuclear medicine.
 – Clinical diagnostics such as blood analysis, magnetic 
resonance imaging, immunoassay, and screening and 
monitoring systems for cancer, cholesterol and diabetes.
 – Medical therapy systems which range from defibrillators 
and ventilators to dialysis systems and ultrasound machines.
 – Patient care equipment with motorised components, 
like hospital beds, dental chairs, wheelchairs, and 
gynaecological tables.
 – Surgical systems which include electrosurgical equipment, 
heart-lung machines and blood-flow systems.
 – Patient monitoring equipment which keep track of everything 
from heart and lungs to oxygen flow, respiration and patient 
body temperature.
Market drivers
In the Healthcare sector there is a constant flow of new opportunities:
 – Emerging markets ‘Middle-class’ populations in China 
and India, in particular, are growing dramatically, with 
commensurate demands for an upgrade in their care. 
Accompanying this burgeoning middle class is continued 
growth of the chronic diseases that follow from the middle-
class lifestyle and diet, such as type-2 diabetes and forms 
of heart disease.
 – Ageing population Demographic changes are increasing the 
number of patients seeking treatments, spurring ever-earlier 
diagnoses and home healthcare solutions such as patient 
self-monitoring.
 – Cost-containment pressures The push to control rising medical 
costs is putting a greater emphasis on preventative care, early 
diagnosis, less invasive procedures and greater automation in 
treatment. Playing into Volex’s strength is an increasing reliance 
on image-guided therapies.
 – Globalisation Global customers are looking for a single-source 
supplier who can meet their needs across a full range of price 
points. To that end, they want suppliers who have a global 
reach, with robust, globally distributed supply chains. Business review
27 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
FY2012 Performance
Promising new wins. Vital expansion of existing customer 
business. Investment in emerging markets. These all drove strong 
business growth in the year. The recent trend of strong year-on-
year growth in the Healthcare sector continued, with revenue 
for the Group’s Healthcare sector growing 24% to $51.7m. 
The increase in margins was also impressive: gross profit 
margin increased 4.1 percentage points to 27 .5%.
Some of the same factors behind the significantly increased 
performance in FY2012 position Volex for continued success in 
the sector, specifically:
 – Growth with existing customer Our largest healthcare 
customer is well up the Fortune Global 500 list; we have 
succeeded in winning new business with companies that 
have recently been acquired by this customer. 
 – Expansion into new segments New business was won in such 
areas as kidney dialysis machines, drug delivery systems and 
infection-control systems like sterilisers.
 – Leveraging the global footprint Volex’s opportunities are 
bolstered by the Group’s global production footprint. With 
production facilities located worldwide, Volex is better able to 
support the needs of the global customer looking to single-
source its suppliers, especially since recent systems-integration 
initiatives across the supply chain better enable the Group to 
provide a seamless experience for customers.
Those customers with the greatest margin-growth potential 
are looking for early involvement of their suppliers in the design 
process. Volex’s continued enhancement of its engineering 
capabilities – particularly in providing value-adding speciality 
qualities, like signal integrity and advanced materials science – 
are providing the groundwork for long-term partnerships devoted 
to co-creation initiatives.
Finally, with increased regulatory controls, not to mention 
when human life is on the line, Volex’s development of robust 
quality systems is raising the Group’s appeal as just that kind 
of valued partner.
Outlook for FY2013 
A perfect example of what FY2013 holds in store is a brand new 
kidney dialysis system that will be launched in late 2012: it’s a new 
customer and a new segment, and Volex engineers co-created all 
the cable assemblies at the customer’s facility. This is the model 
the Group is trying to emulate as it pursues new business in 
image-guided surgical systems, cardiac therapies, blood analysis, 
anaesthesia delivery and incubators, among other target areas. 
Kristof Winters knows his way around an 
MRI machine. He’s one of our field application 
engineers, and he’d been working on this 
particular project since 2008, working on-site 
at the OEM’s facility. He was almost more their 
employee than ours. 
It showed in the results. This groundbreaking 
digital MRI launched in late 2010. Due to Kristof’s 
design-in work, Volex content in this machine’s 
hybrid cable harness and data transmission 
assemblies was twice that of previous MRI 
models. Year-on-year revenue for the healthcare 
sector in that region nearly doubled.
Behind the scenes
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
28 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Industrial
Business focus
The Industrial sector presents a wide variety of opportunities for Volex: 
 – Agriculture Cable harnesses and data interconnects allow 
farmers to operate agricultural machinery remotely through 
GPS systems.
 – Transportation The Group supports telematics with data 
interconnects to sensors for everything from real-time tyre 
pressure readings to security systems that prevent theft. 
 – Manufacturing Data transmission interconnects handle the 
thousands of transmissions a second required for industrial 
robotics, with the flexibility and durability to accommodate 
millions of repetitive movements in a cable’s lifetime.
 – Energy Cabling and harnesses are in use in renewable energy 
sectors such as wind and solar, as well as progressive energy 
initiatives like smart meters.
 – Industrial test and measurement Cable harnesses are 
able to handle extreme conditions while providing high 
data-transmission speeds.
Market drivers
Some market drivers, like single-sourcing from suppliers with 
a global footprint, and increasingly customised design 
requirements, cut across all of the Group’s sectors. But some 
are specific to this sector, such as:
 – Growing prevalence of sensors The world is becoming 
sensor-dependent. CNN recently named data analytics the 
leading job opportunity in the year 2020. But the analytics 
won’t be timely if data is just dribbling in. They need high-
speed interconnects capable of handling the speed and size 
of today’s data transmissions.
 – Increasing automation Robotics on assembly lines. Testing 
equipment in steel furnaces. Industrial customers are moving 
to greater automation, even in the huge manufacturing centres 
of China, and particularly for conditions that are too harsh for 
efficient manual operations. This has put a premium on 
durability in extreme conditions.
FY2012 Performance
Revenue growth for the year was 6%, with total revenues of 
$36.3m. Although in line with annual revenue growth of 6% for 
the Group as a whole, sector revenue in the second half was 
held back by de-stocking at one major customer. This de-stocking 
occurred primarily in Q3 and encouragingly revenue rebounded 
in Q4 to levels closer to those reported in the first half of the year. Business review
29 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
New projects were won with anchor customers, including a 
manufacturing-automation customer which has standardised 
on Volex products. Significant development also occurred in 
the growing segments of renewable energy and assembly 
automation (robotics). Normalised gross margin of 22.6% 
declined one percentage point from FY2011, due principally 
to lower volumes in Q3.
Several developments during FY2012, aligning with some of the 
market drivers, bode well for future Volex performance in this sector:
 – Design-in contracts Design agreements were signed with 
existing customers, with design engineers placed on-site at 
customer facilities. Robust testing capabilities were brought online. 
One customer standardised all their design around the Volex 
product, citing product quality, engineering expertise, and 
certainty of supply from our global footprint and integrated 
supply chain.
 – Customer-centric support The LEAN manufacturing initiative 
enabled our globally distributed production facilities to better 
support our customers’ just-in-time inventory management 
practices. The Group’s customer managers understood the 
issues, were sensitive to clients’ specific needs, and drove 
solution development that ensured those needs were met. 
This resulted in winning more than one ‘Best Supplier’ award.
Outlook for FY2013
The market is looking for complete collaborative design solutions, 
including the use of eco-sensitive materials, and ever-shorter 
design cycles to support their time-to-market mandates. Volex is 
well-positioned to benefit from this trend and this is an opportunity 
for the Group to leverage further the build-up of design 
engineering capabilities.
Another opportunity being developed lies in harsh-environment 
solutions. Since Volex customers’ products are often subject to 
extreme conditions, they need to be ruggedised. To that end, 
the Group has added harsh-environment specialists. Volex is 
also forging new ground in materials science R&D, going so far 
as to develop collaborative relationships with several leading 
universities and testing labs. 
The Group will also look to move into adjacent markets, winning 
new work with the suppliers to the OEMs we already do work for. 
In addition Volex is moving into previously untapped market 
opportunities such as the public sector in the USA, where Volex 
sees opportunities in 2013 to supply a range of our existing 
products to currently-contracted government suppliers and 
service-providers, while also targeting new framework contracts 
working with new distribution partners.
The transportation sub-sector has evolved 
dramatically for Volex in recent years. From power 
assembly harnesses for long-haul tractor trailers, 
to the data-transmission interconnects that make 
telematics possible and are the platform for the 
logistics side of the shipping industry.
Armand Romero has seen the evolution happen 
from the inside. He has worked for the same 
company in San Diego for 18 years – as an 
employee of Volex, servicing that San Diego 
customer. They see him as a subject matter expert, 
as a trusted advisor, as virtually their own employee 
since he has spent the greater part of those 18 years 
working at his own workspace on-site in the 
customer’s San Diego office.
But then, it was Armand Romero’s work that led 
the customer to name Volex as the benchmark 
in their strategic supplier partnerships.
Behind the scenes
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
30 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Manufacturing operations  
and supply chain
While our global manufacturing footprint provides structural 
efficiencies for getting product to our customers, we also added 
ten new distribution hubs this past year to provide even greater 
logistical performance.
Supply chain
The issues Volex addressed with supply chain improvements in 
FY2012 were largely about being more responsive to customer 
inventory-management needs. The Group’s LEAN manufacturing 
initiative has been devoted to aligning the entire supply chain in 
order to decrease inventory and reduce component lead times. 
Changes by our suppliers to their tooling lead times are expected 
to drive down the time for that part of the overall production 
process from six to eight weeks towards a goal of two weeks.
The LEAN initiative has had positive effects beyond Volex’s own 
facilities as well. Volex suppliers have faced the same training 
and cultural issues in their plants. So several key suppliers have 
adopted the same measures the Group instituted, including hiring 
Six Sigma black belts. Getting the entire supply chain aligned, with 
systems integrated, will not only help to reduce inventory and lead 
times, but will also result in limiting waste.
A great deal goes into turning a global manufacturing footprint 
into a truly world-class production capability. The Group continued 
to make substantial efforts to realise such an evolution and 
several new business wins during FY2012 offer proof that 
considerable progress has been made.
Manufacturing operations
Enhancement efforts continue to be made on two fronts: plant, 
machinery and tooling, and personnel. With the majority of output 
through the Group’s Chinese facilities, the main plant upgrade 
efforts this past year were at the plants in Henggang and Suzhou. 
But work has also now begun on a major expansion and upgrade 
of the Volex plant in Batam, Indonesia, and Volex is planning 
near-term infrastructure upgrades in Brazil and reviewing options 
in Poland and India. These improvements will bear even greater 
fruit over the next two years as the manufacturing process is 
comprehensively redesigned in a continuation of the Group’s 
LEAN manufacturing initiative.
The Chinese facilities were also the focus of machinery 
improvements, some by upgrading controller systems, some 
by installing new machines. More robust improvements are on 
tap for FY2013 when further state-of-the-art machines will be 
added to the production line in Henggang. Significant 
improvements are also being made in tooling, with upgrades 
that double the throughput, while providing greater precision 
and reliability, and reducing waste. 
In FY2012, Volex upgraded personnel through both training and 
recruitment of new talent. At the management level, new plant 
managers were installed at a number of facilities. In addition, 
all plant managers have gone through extensive training, from 
behavioural training to skill and process training.
The training of production line employees has been an equivalent 
challenge – and opportunity. Through the acquisition of new 
skills and getting accustomed to new processes, the Group’s 
production people were much better prepared to understand 
and align with customer needs. Some of the on-going cultural-
transformation work at Volex also addressed production workers’ 
capacity for aspiring to not only meet those customer 
requirements, but to exceed them. 
Process changes on the plant floor went hand-in-hand with the 
attitude changes. Line designs were aligned to keep all workers 
consistently productive and in coordination with each other 
(which also reduced inventory build-up, consequently decreasing 
the opportunity for product defects and damage that can result 
from excessive handling), and more quality assurance measures 
were introduced. Business review
31 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
Technology
This is a strategic imperative: to be truly competitive in the 
marketplace today, we must combine a worldwide, multi-
disciplinary engineering team to provide distinctive engineering 
with proprietary Volex content in our data and power 
transmission interconnects.
The path to competitive advantage: proactivity
There are many kinds of proactivity. For instance, there is the 
active gathering of customer intelligence in order to better look 
at opportunity through the customer’s eyes. We live in a ‘close to 
the customer’ world, of course. But if Volex is to meet a customer’s 
unique needs with tailored solutions, it calls for more than just 
shaking hands over the conference room table. It requires 
relentlessly dedicated work to develop a synchronous point of 
view and deep understanding of the customer’s business, their 
design philosophy, their strategies for creating their own 
competitive advantage. 
This has been at the heart of a major initiative continued in FY2012: 
holding technology reviews with key clients, so that we are better 
able to align our capabilities with where they see their business 
going – and even anticipate their needs through breakthroughs 
in our own R&D.
A prime opportunity
Research and development, of course, is another arena for 
proactivity. There has always been an OEM with a need for 
a power cord supplier. But competitive advantage lies in the 
proactivity that drives going to market with a more distinctive 
and broader range of products that include complex power 
assemblies and state-of-the-science data-signal interconnects. 
In the second half of FY2011, we launched just such an initiative, 
looking specifically at optical interconnects: the optical cables that link 
computers with other computing devices and also provide internal 
connections. There will always be copper wire. But the size of the data 
streams today is demanding transmission by fibre optics. Fibre can 
handle higher speeds, up to 100Gb/second, and can sustain signal 
integrity, and even condition the signal in some situations.
In FY2012, this initiative gained momentum. The Group added 
technologists: Volex now has some of the best signal-integrity 
engineers in the business. It has put all the competencies in place. 
Now the work is addressing multiple optical product opportunities, 
like optical USB cables, and related applications. 
Developing new technologies on multiple fronts
Interconnects are a $60 billion market. But interconnect suppliers 
come in only two flavours: high-level specialty suppliers, capable 
of meeting the most rigorous specifications, and low-end, 
price-competitive suppliers. There is no middle ground. After you 
get past the handful of top-shelf speciality suppliers, you drop to 
the thousands of small suppliers of commodity products and 
support services.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
32 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Volex is making the move across the gap to join the high-end 
speciality suppliers. But a lot of technology is required to compete 
with the industry leaders – and a lot of insight into what’s driving 
product development in the Group’s four key sectors is influencing 
the new ground being explored by Volex engineers. 
For the Telecoms/Datacoms sector, the issues are miniaturisation 
and speed, with digital-only signals (no analogue interconnects). 
In the healthcare arena, Volex has typically been focused on the 
large imaging modalities, where image clarity is paramount, 
particularly with the increasing density of the data being 
transmitted. Speed and signal integrity, along with miniaturisation, 
are obviously driving forces in the consumer sector and influencing 
R&D in the optical-interconnect space. The Group’s advanced 
signal-integrity expertise has provided a critical advantage there. 
The Group’s heightened expertise in signal integrity is also 
leading to new opportunities. For instance, the concerns with 
weight and electromagnetic interference for the aerospace 
industry are moving them to look to fibre optics as the solution, 
which is renewing an industrial opportunity for newly developed 
Volex products. 
Innovation brought even to the process of innovation
Innovation is about pushing boundaries, not only in the product, 
but also in the process. For instance, in the US, several 
collaborative efforts in materials science are under way with 
major universities and testing labs. This provides unprecedented 
opportunities to experiment with new materials. The consequent 
advances made by the Group in material sciences now enables 
Volex engineers to bring new levels of ruggedness and flexibility 
to manufacturing robotics products, for example, where highly 
repetitive machine actions and continual vibration are significant 
challenges to durability. 
In addition, the Group has also increased its participation on 
standards committees. Getting involved with such organisations 
as the Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) and the 
Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC) allows the 
Group to stay in touch with the directions that next-generation 
interconnects will be taking and provides enlightened focus 
to product development.
In summary, strategically driven investment across a number 
of technological fronts in FY2012 is opening up new opportunities 
to be developed in FY2013.
Operating review 
Technology 
continued Business review
33 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Operating review 
People, processes, platforms
The transformational drive that has fuelled Volex’s growth 
in recent years continued in FY2012. New people. Enhanced 
processes. Revitalised platforms. All contributed to the continued 
development of capabilities and positioned the Group for fresh 
growth in the years ahead.
People
There was an infusion of new talent as a progressive reorganisation 
brought upgrades, particularly by enhancing strategic marketing 
and sales experience. Engineering capabilities were also 
strengthened, from engineering design to sales-facing application 
engineers focused on promising growth opportunities, e.g. 
halogen-free injection moulding.
As the Group moves up the value chain the approach to human 
capital is evolving. The focus now is on talent development as 
well as talent acquisition. While there was no corporate human 
resources function for the entire company as recently as 2009, 
an HR director was added in Asia in 2010 and there will soon be 
one in the US. These moves will allow the Group to take a more 
considered and proactive approach to adding new talent, 
driven by a better understanding of where the business is going.
Processes
Performance Management is one process that has received 
attention. All employees will now participate in performance 
appraisals that have been developed to enable objective 
comparisons to be made between organisation functions and 
across geographies. An on-line appraisal process has been 
introduced for the first time that covers around 200 of the most 
senior employees.
To combat an industry-wide tendency to high attrition, especially 
in the production facilities in China, the Group has made a 
number of positive changes. Every new production-line hire is 
assigned a mentor, who is given added incentives for developing 
and retaining their charges. Work flow was altered so that 
responsibilities were more equitable and provided opportunities 
for more diversified skill development. Process re-engineering in 
the plants has led to a multifunction-team approach, which has 
proven to be more personally rewarding. These changes have 
all contributed to a decrease in attrition, along with the increased 
efficiencies and performance that come with more continuity 
on the production lines. 
There have been process improvements made across virtually 
all functions of the business – supply chain management, 
sales organisation, product development and finance. When 
a company wants to work differently, it needs different tools 
to support these new ways of working. The business process 
re-engineering planned as part of our ‘One Volex’ initiative 
is very much IT-enabled, which will drive the evolution of 
platforms for operations, infrastructure, business applications 
and data rationalisation.
Platforms
The results to date have fully justified the investment. In the last 
year, the institution of vendor reviews has enhanced accountability 
in the supply chain. Systems integration between Volex and its 
vendors has increased supply-chain stability and efficiency of 
operational processes, and reduced error rates. Two new global 
data centres have been implemented, one in Europe, the other 
in Asia, to provide consistent data access across all locations, 
while the cultural transformation is moving people to embrace 
technology and apply the data-driven knowledge it can provide.
The upshot is that Volex strategists, engineers and marketers 
are able to use information more productively, particularly for 
anticipating future challenges and opportunities, but also to 
help build and support stronger relationships with customers. 
For the future will be driven by client-led solutions. So platforms 
are being put in place to enhance collaboration and co-creation. 
The next year will see even greater consistency and a substantial 
return on investment as the Group is further able to leverage 
business-intelligence and reporting tools and convert knowledge 
into opportunity.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
34 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial review
Volex is well positioned to act on its key strategies
The Group has enjoyed another year of strong trading in FY2012, 
enabling it to increase significantly its investment in the business. 
In addition to a 135% increase in capital expenditure year-on-year, 
substantial further investment has been made in people, new 
products and improved processes. The new banking facility entered 
into at the start of the financial year has provided far greater 
flexibility to the business and at a reduced cost. This has enabled 
the Group to make these important investments which position the 
Group well, both operationally and financially as we enter FY2013. 
The underlying business has remained robust throughout the 
year with the Consumer and Healthcare sectors performing 
particularly well. This performance, together with the Board’s 
confidence in the Group’s future prospects, has enabled the Group 
to increase the dividend payment to $2.6m from $1.9m in FY2011.
US Dollar reporting
As of 4 April 2011, the Group has changed its presentational 
currency from Pounds Sterling (‘GBP’) to US Dollars (‘USD’). This 
change reflects the fact that over two thirds of the Group’s revenue 
is now produced by Group entities with USD as their functional 
currency. Transition to a USD presentational currency, therefore, 
better reflects the underlying trading performance, reducing 
translation related distortions in reported results caused by 
exchange rate movements. 
In accordance with relevant accounting standards, comparative 
information has been provided in USD. Please refer to Note 1 of 
the financial statements for further information.
Measuring financial performance
The Group continues to use a number of specific measures to 
assess its performance and these are referred to throughout this 
Annual Report in the discussion of the performance of the 
business. These measures are not defined in IFRS, but are used by 
the Board to assess the underlying operational performance of the 
Group, as such the Board believes these performance measures 
are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS 
measures. These measures include:
Performance indicators
Q1 FY11 111.9
Q2 FY11 126.4
Q3 FY11 125.2
Q4 FY11 126.5
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
126.1
144.6
125.1
122.0
Group quarterly revenue by sector, $m
Telecoms/Datacoms
Consumer Healthcare
Industrial
0 30 60 90 120 150
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
+6%
Q1 FY11 71.6
Q2 FY11 79.5
Q3 FY11 74.2
Q4 FY11 79.0
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
Asia
77.9
92.0
82.1
78.4
Consumer quarterly revenue by region, $m
Americas
Europe
India
0 20 40 60 80 100
+9%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Andrew Cherry 
Group Finance Director
Robust trading, together with 
confidence in the Group’s 
prospects, have enabled us 
to increase the dividend.  Business review
35 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Measure Definition
Normalised profit Profit before non-recurring items and share-based 
payment expenses
Normalised EPS Earnings per share adjusted for the impacts of 
non-recurring items and share-based payments
In addition, the Group has adopted return on capital employed 
(ROCE) and free cash flow (FCF) as further measures of financial 
performance during the year. These new ROCE and FCF 
measures are defined and discussed in more detail on pages 
38 and 39 respectively.
Trading performance
Financial performance by sector
Consumer
2010  
$’000
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
Revenue 222,379 304,336 330,372
Normalised gross profit 49,053 53,609 59,113
Normalised gross margin 22.1% 17.6% 17.9%
Telecoms/Datacoms
2010  
$’000
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
Revenue 94,766 109,948 99,440
Normalised gross profit 13,994 20,653 21,034
Normalised gross margin 14.8% 18.8% 21.2%
Healthcare
2010  
$’000
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
Revenue 30,770 41,536 51,663
Normalised gross profit 6,649 9,735 14,186
Normalised gross margin 21.6% 23.4% 27.5%
Industrial
2010  
$’000
2011  
$’000
2012  
$’000
Revenue 17,522 34,189 36,294
Normalised gross profit 3,969 8,072 8,186
Normalised gross margin 22.7% 23.6% 22.6%
Group revenue for the year increased by 6% from $490.0m in 
FY2011 to $517 .8m in FY2012, primarily driven by the Consumer and 
Healthcare sectors.
The Group’s normalised gross profit for FY2012 was $102.5m, 
yielding a normalised gross margin of 19.8%. This compared to 
a FY2011 gross profit of $92.1m and a normalised gross margin 
of 18.8%. Although operating leverage (the impact of absorbing 
fixed production costs over an increased revenue base) 
contributed to the 1% increase in normalised gross margin, the 
principal driver was an improvement in mix, with increased Volex 
content more of a feature in our FY2012 product range, consistent 
with the Group’s strategy of moving up the value chain.
Performance Indicators
Q1 FY11 8.7
Q2 FY11 9.9
Q3 FY11 12.4
Q4 FY11 10.5
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
10.9
13.3
14.5
13.0
Healthcare quarterly revenue by region, $m
Americas
Asia Europe
India
0 5 10 15
+24%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Q1 FY11 24.4
Q2 FY11 28.1
Q3 FY11 30.2
Q4 FY11 27.2
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
Asia
27.4
28.8
21.3
21.9
Telecoms/Datacoms quarterly revenue
by region, $m
Americas
Europe
India
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
-10%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Q1 FY11 7.1
Q2 FY11 8.9
Q3 FY11 8.3
Q4 FY11 9.8
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
9.9
10.5
7.3
8.7
Industrial quarterly revenue by region, $m
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
Asia
Americas
Europe
India
+6%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
36 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial review 
continued
The Consumer sector saw strong revenue growth in the year, 
up 9% from $304.3m in FY2011 to $330.4m in FY2012, with the 
growth mainly generated by increased sales to our major 
customer. The Consumer normalised gross margin of 17 .9% 
was marginally up on the prior year with improved mix and 
manufacturing efficiencies outweighing labour rate increases.
Telecoms/Datacoms revenue was down 10% from $109.9m in 
FY2011 to $99.4m in FY2012. The reasons for this reduction are 
largely twofold: firstly reduced global spend by Telecoms 
operators as the continuing economic uncertainty restricts their 
appetite for investment projects and secondly an active decision 
by the Group to move away from lower margin products. As a 
consequence, normalised gross margin increased from 18.8% 
in FY2011 to 21.2% in FY2012.
The Healthcare sector saw very strong demand with a 24% 
increase in revenue from $41.5m in FY2011 to $51.7m in FY2012. 
This increased demand has been driven by the Europe and Asia 
regions where the Group has achieved strong growth supplying 
connectivity solutions to the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
market. This revenue growth has also been coupled with an 
increase in the Healthcare normalised gross margin, from 23.4% 
in FY2011 to 27 .5% in FY2012. This margin growth is a direct result of 
two of the Group’s key strategies, greater customer engagement 
(where we have continued to invest in placing engineers on 
customer sites) and higher design content within our products.
The Industrial sector saw 6% growth in revenue from $34.2m 
in FY2011 to $36.3m in FY2012. The strong growth seen in this 
sector in the first six months of the year was reduced in the 
second half of the year as one key customer went through 
a process of de-stocking, which has now been concluded. 
Industrial normalised gross margin decreased from 23.6% in 
FY2011 to 22.6% in FY2012. This is primarily due to lower volumes in 
the third quarter of the year, with fourth quarter normalised gross 
margin returning to levels observed in the first half of the year.
Group operating costs excluding share-based payment expenses 
have increased by $4.5m from $66.0m to $70.5m. This increase in 
part reflects the growth of the business but also an active decision 
by the Board to invest in people and processes to provide an 
environment of excellence throughout the Group. As a percentage 
of sales, however, operating expenses were held flat.
Performance Indicators
Q1 FY11 19.7
Q2 FY11 19.6
Q3 FY11 18.0
Q4 FY11 18.0
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
19.0
20.3
19.4
20.5
Group quarterly gross margin, %
0 5 10 15 20 25
+1%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
FY09 15.9
FY10 20.2
FY11
FY12
18.8
19.8
Group gross margin by year, %
0 5 10 15 20 25
+1%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Q1 FY11 5.9
Q2 FY11 6.8
Q3 FY11 6.3
Q4 FY11 7.0
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
6.8
9.5
7.1
8.6
Group normalised operating proﬁt quarterly, $m
1 2 4 8 6 10
+23%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth Business review
37 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Non-recurring items and share-based payments
During the year, the Consumer sector incurred exceptional 
start-up costs of $5.0m in relation to new product introductions, 
specifically the migration from PVC to halogen-free power cords, 
coupled with a requirement for significantly higher technical and 
cosmetic standards.
As a result, these new products necessitated wide ranging 
improvements to our manufacturing processes and investments 
in higher grade tooling and precision moulding technologies. 
While these changes were being introduced, there was a 
significant temporary increase in scrap rates and labour 
inefficiency. The $5.0m exceptional cost represents the non-
recurring cost of this scrap and labour inefficiency during the 
transition period. 
The investment represents a significant step-up in our engineering, 
manufacturing know-how and quality control capabilities, and has 
served to strengthen the relationship with our largest customer. 
The benefits of this investment are already evident in the 
Consumer sector. Moreover, this sustainable competitive 
advantage enhances our ability to offer new and different 
products and to attract a wider range of customers. 
The share-based payments charge of $4.0m in FY2012 has 
increased by $1.4m from $2.6m in FY2011. This increase is primarily 
due to the full year impact of the FY2011 option grants, which 
year-on-year yielded an additional $1.1m of charge. Options 
granted in FY2012 generated a share option charge of $0.4m.
Research and development
Group expenditure on research and development, of which the 
most significant component is employment costs in respect of 
design engineers, increased 19% to $4.6m from $3.8m in FY2011. 
The year-on-year increase is due to greater investment in people 
and consultancy services to further enhance our product design 
and development capability and is consistent with the Group’s 
strategy of increased focus on designed-in engineering solutions.
Finance costs
Total net finance costs in FY2012 increased by 21% to $3.8m (FY2011: 
$3.2m). The principal reasons for this increase were the write-off of 
$0.8m of capitalised debt issue costs associated with the financing 
facility replaced in the period and a $0.8m charge associated with 
copper commodity contracts which failed to meet the hedging 
requirements of IAS 39. Partly off-setting these increases was a 
reduction in the interest charged on the senior credit facility, with 
the new facility incurring interest at a margin of 1.75%–2.00% 
above LIBOR compared with 2.75% on the old facility. 
Performance Indicators
Q1 FY11 2.7
Q2 FY11 –6.9
Q3 FY11 6.2
Q4 FY11 3.8
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
1.3
0.1
12.9
4.0
Group free cash ﬂow by quarter, $m
-10 -5 0 5 10 15
+212%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Q1 FY11 50
Q2 FY11 46
Q3 FY11 45
Q4 FY11 48
Q1 FY12
Q2 FY12
Q3 FY12
Q4 FY12
44
59
54
63
Group return on capital employed (ROCE) 
by quarter, %
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
+13%
FY2012 vs FY2011 growth
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
38 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial review 
continued
Tax
The Group incurred a tax charge of $2.0m (FY2011: $3.7m) 
representing an effective tax rate (ETR) of 11% (FY2011: 18%). 
The principal reason for the reduction in ETR was an increase 
in the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of the 
Group’s trading losses. 
During FY2012 we recognised $3.2m of deferred tax assets related 
to these losses, an increase of $1.5m compared to last year. The 
increase is as a result of improved profitability in the territories with 
brought forward losses and greater certainty over the benefits 
accruing from the global supply chain optimisation project, 
initiated in FY2010. Total losses at 1 April 2012 were $86m (FY2011: 
$93m). On a full recognition basis this represents a potential 
deferred tax asset of $24m (FY2011: $25m). For future years we 
expect the ETR to return to a level similar to that reported in FY2011.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for the year was 30.4 cents (FY2011: 
29.3 cents), a 4% increase on the prior year despite the impact of 
the exceptional start-up costs and higher share-based payments 
charge. Adjusting for these items the normalised basic earnings 
per share figure was 43.7 cents, a 30% increase on the prior year. 
Normalised diluted earnings per share increased by 31% in the 
year to 42.4 cents (FY2011: 32.4 cents).
Dividends
During the year, the Group resumed the payment of dividends. 
At the Volex plc Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved 
the proposed FY2011 final dividend of 2.0p per share. This was 
paid in August 2011 resulting in a dividend cash outflow of $1.9m. 
An interim dividend of 1.5 cents per share for FY2012 was paid in 
February 2012 resulting in a dividend cash outflow of $0.9m.
The Board is proposing a final dividend for FY2012 of 3 cents per 
share, representing a 40% year-on-year increase in dividend. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, this dividend will be paid on 24 August 2012 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 July 2012. 
Return on capital employed
As noted on page 35, in light of the increased capital investment in 
the business, the Board has adopted return on capital employed 
(‘ROCE’) as a key performance indicator. For FY2012, ROCE was 
58%, up from 45% in FY2011. The following table defines how the 
Group calculates ROCE: 
 
FY10  
$’m
FY11  
$’m
FY12  
$’m
Normalised operating profit 21.3 26.1 32.0
Capital employed:
Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 1.0 2.1 2.9
Property, plant and equipment 11.4 12.5 20.0
Inventories 41.7 51.9 49.8
Trade and other receivables 91.6 118.4 106.2
Trade and other payables (94.0) (127.2) (123.8)
51.7 57.7 55.1
Return on Capital Employed 41% 45% 58%
Cash flows and net funds
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital in the 
year was $27 .5m (FY2011: $25.2m).
Movements in working capital have yielded a further $8.8m of 
cash inflow (FY2011: $4.5m cash outflow) with FY2012 benefiting 
from the implementation of a non-recourse invoice discounting 
facility. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Group can sell up 
to $10m of trade receivables associated with a specific customer. 
As at 1 April 2012, the Group had utilised $9.5m of this facility. 
After aggregate outflows for tax and interest of $6.0m (FY2011: 
$9.5m), net cash generated from operating activities was $30.4m 
(FY2011: $11.1m).
In line with the Group’s strategy of investment in the business, 
expenditure on tangible fixed assets has increased by 135% from 
$4.4m in FY2011 to $10.3m in FY2012. This expenditure has been 
targeted at upgrading both the manufacturing and information 
technology systems infrastructure of the Group.
During the year, the Group, through its employee share trust, 
acquired 769,800 shares in Volex plc at a cost of $3.3m. These 
shares are held for the benefit of Volex employees and directors 
to facilitate participation in the Company’s share option schemes. 
570,000 such options were exercised in the period yielding a cash 
inflow of $0.3m.
The full year dividend for FY2011 of 2.0 pence per share was paid 
out in the year, generating a cash outflow of $1.9m. Similarly the 
interim dividend of 1.5 cents per share for FY2012 led to a further 
cash outflow of $0.9m.
As discussed further below, during the year the Group entered 
into a new financing facility. As a result of this $26.4m was paid 
out by the Group to close out the pre-existing facility and $39.5m 
was drawn down under the new arrangement. In securing the 
new facility, the Company incurred $1.7m in arrangement and 
professional fees. Business review
39 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
In the year, 80,000 cumulative preference shares of £1 each were 
cancelled at a cost of $0.1m. The interest that had accrued on 
these shares was also paid and has been included in the interest 
paid cash outflow category.
As a result of the above cash flows, the Group generated 
a $23.7m cash inflow for the year (FY2011: $9.0m cash outflow). 
As at 1 April 2012, the Group held net cash of $3.6m compared 
with a $7 .4m net debt position as at 3 April 2011. 
In addition to the adoption of ROCE as a key performance 
indicator (KPI) noted above, the Board has also adopted free 
cash flow (FCF) as a new KPI, recognising that the Group’s ability 
to generate cash, either to return to shareholders in the form of 
dividends or to reinvest in the business, is a key financial metric. 
At the same time, as a result of the Group’s success in de-leveraging 
over the last three to four years, the Group intends to de-emphasise 
absolute net debt as a key performance indicator. 
The following table defines how the Group calculates FCF:
Annual free cash flow FY10 $’m FY11 $’m FY12 $’m
Net cash generated from 
operating activities 18.8 11.1 30.4
Cash flow from investing activities (5.7) (5.5) (15.1)
13.1 5.6 15.3
Add back:
Acquisition of own shares 0.0 0.0 3.0
Cash flow on disposal of operations 3.0 0.2 0.0
Free cash flow 16.1 5.8 18.3
Banking facilities
On 31 May 2011, the Group entered into a new $75m multi-
currency combined revolving credit, overdraft and guarantee 
facility (‘RCF’) with a syndicate of three banks (Lloyds Banking 
Group plc, HSBC Bank plc and Clydesdale Bank plc) which 
replaced the pre-existing facility. 
The new facility provides greater flexibility and improved terms 
as follows;
 – four year facility, available until June 2015;
 – no scheduled facility amortisation;
 – improved pricing, with margin over LIBOR payable linked to 
a net debt:EBITDA leverage ratio. Initial margin of 2.00% over 
LIBOR which reduced to 1.75% by year end;
 – interest cover and net debt:EBITDA leverage covenants; and
 – further $150m pre-negotiated facility agreed to fund future, 
as yet unidentified, acquisitions. 
At 1 April 2012, amounts drawn under this facility totalled $41.0m 
(FY2011: $28.4m). After accounting for bonds, guarantees and 
letters of credit, the remaining headroom as at 1 April 2012 was 
$31.0m (FY2011: $20.8m). 
Financial Instruments
During the year, the Group entered into a number of contracts 
with financial institutions which were linked to the average copper 
price as published by the London Metal Exchange (‘LME’). The 
purpose of these contracts was to mitigate the Group’s exposure 
to copper price volatility observed in the Group’s cost of sales 
(see page 43 where rising commodity prices has been identified 
as a key risk). 
Whilst the contracts acted as an economic hedge against the 
impact of copper price movements, the initial contracts did not 
meet the technical requirements of IAS 39 and therefore could not 
be accounted for as hedge contracts. As a result the losses on 
such contracts were recognised immediately in the income 
statement. This resulted in a $0.8m loss being recognised within 
finance costs in the year.
In January 2012, following a change in our key supplier contracts, 
the Group has achieved hedge accounting under IAS 39 for all 
open contracts. The contracts have been deemed cash flow 
hedges of forecast future purchases of copper. As at 1 April 2012, 
an asset of $1.5m has been recognised in respect of the fair value 
of open copper contracts with a corresponding $1.5m credit 
recognised in reserves. This credit shall be retained in reserves 
until such time as the forecast copper purchase takes place.
Defined benefit pension scheme
The Group’s net pension deficit under IAS 19 increased by $1.5m 
from $2.1m at 3 April 2011 to $3.6m at 1 April 2012. The primary 
reason for this was a $1.0m increase in the pension liability arising 
from a reduction in the discount rate (linked to the 15 year 
corporate bond yield) applied to forecast future cash outflows. 
Andrew Cherry 
Group Finance Director
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
40 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Group risk management
Risk management is an essential element of how we run our business. We continuously 
identify and manage those risks and opportunities that could affect the achievement of 
our business plans and strategic objectives, our shareholder value, our reputation or the 
continuance of good corporate governance.
What is our approach to risk management?
The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is 
effectively managed across the Volex group and, on behalf of the 
Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Group 
risk process.
We have risk management processes in place at Volex and our 
approach is aimed at early identification of key risks, reducing or 
removing those risks and/or responding quickly and effectively 
when a risk crystallises. The Company’s enterprise-wide risk 
management and reporting process helps management to 
identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risk. The risks identified are 
collated and reported through functional and business unit levels 
to the executive management team. This culminates in the 
identification of the Company’s key strategic, financial, operational 
and compliance risks with associated action plans and controls 
to mitigate them where appropriate (and to the extent deemed 
appropriate taking account of costs and benefits). The output of 
the Group exercise is then reviewed by the Board and relevant 
responsibilities assigned. The executive team are supported by 
senior managers with functional or business unit roles. In each 
instance, where appropriate, we seek to implement mitigation 
activities or steps to reduce risk to an acceptable level.  
Key features of our system of risk management are:
 – detailed monthly business and financial reviews by the 
executive management team and the Board;
 – an established risk management framework and 
associated policies;
 – an annual process to identify and evaluate material risks 
as outlined above;
 – a dedicated internal Business Assurance function augmented 
by a programme of rolling internal audit reviews conducted by 
an external firm; 
 – periodic education programmes to ensure risk management 
is prominent in individuals’ thinking as they discharge their 
management, legal and fiduciary responsibilities, and periodic 
self-certification of compliance therewith;
 – on-going monitoring of significant risks and internal and 
external environmental factors that may change the Group’s 
risk profile; and regular review of insurance cover, taking into 
account the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood 
and magnitude of the risks involved.
Risk management system Business review
41 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Mitigation activities Description and possible impact Risk
Non-compliance 
with legislation 
and regulation
The Group operates in diverse markets 
and therefore is exposed to a wide range 
of legal, fiscal and regulatory frameworks. 
We must understand and comply with all 
applicable legislation. Any breach could 
have a financial impact and damage 
our reputation.
 – External consultants have been engaged to perform 
a number of corporate health checks in high risk 
markets to identify any compliance gaps and assist 
in the development of appropriate solutions. 
 – We maintain a number of general compliance 
policies to ensure compliance with local laws, 
regulations and standards and any other laws 
with international reach, such as the UK Bribery 
Bill, where relevant. These policies are reinforced 
through our ongoing training for employees. 
 – Code of Business Conduct communicated to the 
Group and third parties to make sure business is 
carried out in line with our policies and procedures.
 – We have completed director fiduciary duty training 
with all Directors of Volex subsidiary companies.
Our principal risks
The table below summarises our principal risks and what we do to manage 
these risks. The Board considers these to be the most significant risks that 
could materially affect the Group’s financial condition, performance, 
strategies and prospects. The risks listed do not comprise all risks faced 
by the Group and are not set out in any order of priority. Additional risks not 
presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, 
may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Loss of a key 
customer
A significant proportion of the Group’s 
trading activity is with a relatively small 
number of large global accounts. Over 80% 
of total Group revenue is generated by the 
Group’s top 25 customers, mostly 
prestigious global OEMs. 
Two of the Group’s customers individually 
account for more than 10% of total Group 
revenue, with the Group’s largest customer, 
operating in the Consumer sector, 
accounting for 19% of total Group revenue 
in FY2012.
 – The Group mitigates the risk of fluctuations in 
revenues from these customers by emphasising 
strong trading relationships with them, while 
diversifying into other markets and new customers.
 – Initiatives in place to align our capabilities and 
resources with customers’ needs, and to improve 
quality systems. 
 – Global key account managers in place for 
major customers. 
 – In practice, key customers operate in many business 
sectors or regions, with somewhat independent 
trading relationships in each sector/region. Loss of 
business in one area would not necessarily result 
in the loss of all the customer’s business.
 – The relationship with the Group’s largest customer 
has strengthened notably during the year, aided 
by substantial investment by Volex. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
42 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Group risk management 
continued
Mitigation activities Description and possible impact Risk
Exchange rate 
fluctuations
The Group operates in many different 
countries and is subject to currency 
fluctuations arising on transactional foreign 
currency exposures and the translation 
of overseas subsidiaries’ results which 
could create earnings and balance 
sheet volatility. 
 – Group Treasury Policy Statement sets out procedures 
on exchange rate risk management.
 – During FY2012 the Group adopted the US Dollar as 
its presentation currency. Given that the substantial 
majority of the Group’s transactions are conducted 
in US Dollar, or currencies tied to the US Dollar, this 
will significantly reduce the translation impact of 
exchange rate fluctuations.
 – Billing currencies have been adjusted to achieve 
a higher level of natural hedging.
 – Where there are material remaining exposures, 
the Company enters into financial hedging to 
mitigate these exposures.
 – The impact of foreign exchange movements on 
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
is mitigated by a natural hedge due to the Group’s 
US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings.
Failure to maintain 
an effective system 
of internal control
Without effective internal controls, we could 
be exposed to financial irregularities and 
losses which may have a significant impact 
on the ability of the business to operate. 
We must safeguard business assets and 
ensure accuracy and reliability of records 
and financial reporting.
 – Adoption of detailed authorisation matrices to 
ensure segregation of duties.
 – Minimum Internal Control Standards are in place; 
all business units are expected to be 100% compliant.
 – Detailed General, Finance, Operational, Sales and 
HR Policy Statements set out the required policies 
and procedures.
 – Rolling internal audit plan: all business units are 
reviewed by Group Business Assurance in 
collaboration with external audit firms. A site that 
receives an unsatisfactory rating is re-audited within 
six months to ensure improvement.
 – Group financial performance monitored with 
monthly Board reports and regular forecasting. 
 – Senior executive team undertake detailed monthly 
business and financial reviews.
 – All senior managers are required to complete 
an Annual Certificate of Compliance, confirming 
compliance with the Group Policy Statements.
 – We run a Right-to-Speak email/ phone hotlines for 
whistle blowing. All reported issues are investigated 
and appropriate actions taken, overseen by 
Executive Management and the Audit Committee.
	 FY2012	 FY2011	 FY2012	 FY2011
GBP	 0.626	 0.621	 0.626	 0.645
Euro	 0.750	 0.704	 0.721	 0.756
Principal exchange rates used in the year
Average	 rate	
(Income	 statement)
Period	 end	 rate	
(Statement	 of	 Financial	 Position) Business review
43 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Mitigation activities Description and possible impact Risk
Rising commodity 
prices
Many of the Group’s products, in particular 
power cords which represent the majority 
of the sales in the Consumer sector, are 
manufactured from components that 
contain significant proportions of copper 
and, to a lesser extent, other metals and 
oil-based products such as PVC. Increases 
in the prices of these commodities are 
reflected in the prices charged to our 
customers but delays in passing through 
these costs can cause short-term volatility 
in the Group’s gross margins.
Copper price volatility is the single largest 
commodity price exposure facing the 
Group. The graph above illustrates how 
LME copper spot prices have fluctuated 
during the period from April 2010 to 
May 2012.
 – The Board regularly reviews the prices of these 
commodities and effects a number of measures 
to mitigate the impact of excessive volatility.
 – With specific respect to copper, prices are set 
quarterly with major suppliers based on the 
average LME rate over the prior quarter.
 – Approximately a third of the revenues in our 
Consumer sector are covered by copper clauses 
which provide for quarterly adjustments to our 
selling prices based on our input costs.
 – Occasionally, we employ back-to-back 
arrangements to match customer demand 
with cable supplier arrangements.
 – Strategic relationships established with 
key suppliers. 
 – During FY2012 we initiated copper commodity 
derivative contracts which fix the cost for a portion 
of our copper purchases. These contracts extend 
out 12 months and are refreshed on a rolling 
monthly basis.
Increased 
competition
The Group’s markets are highly competitive 
and we expect this will continue. 
Our competitive position results from 
a range of factors including the price, 
quality and performance of our products, 
technology innovation, customer service 
levels and lead times, and our 
geographic footprint. 
Competition may intensify, from global 
competitors and/or new entrants. 
Increased competition may result in 
price reductions, increased expense or 
investment, or loss of contracts, any 
of which could adversely affect our 
trading performance.
 – Developing strategic relationships with customers.
 – Investing in new technology and developing 
new products to maintain the Group’s 
competitive position.
 – Close monitoring of market trends and industry 
developments (e.g. by participating in standards 
committees) to shape, or at least gain early sight 
of, future product requirements.
April 12 December 11 September 11 June 11 March 11 December 10 September 10 June 10
10,000
8,000
6,000
Copper Spot Prices US$/metric tonne
April 10
Failure to attract, 
develop and retain 
key personnel
The knowledge, skills and performance 
of our employees are central to our 
success. We must attract, develop 
and retain the talent required to fulfil 
our ambitions. Inability to retain key 
knowledge and adequately plan for 
succession could have a negative 
impact on Company performance.
 – Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain 
and reward key employees.
 – Talent strategy to provide opportunities for 
employees to develop careers.
 – Formalised objective setting in place for employees.
 – Bonus scheme in place for relevant employees 
based on business and individual objectives.
 – In 2011 the Group embarked on a global cultural 
change initiative. This is a multi-year programme 
that will see all employees engaged in the 
development and implementation of ‘One Volex’ 
and supporting values.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
44 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Group risk management 
continued
Mitigation activities Description and possible impact Risk
Adverse trading 
conditions
The Group’s business and trading 
performance have been, and will continue 
to be, affected by global economic 
conditions. Should global economic 
conditions deteriorate or economic 
uncertainty increase, our customers and 
potential customers may experience 
deterioration of their businesses, which 
may result in the delay or cancellation of 
plans to purchase our products. This may 
have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s trading results.
 – Regular review of pricing, promotion and 
marketing strategies.
 – Ongoing close working relationships with suppliers 
and customers to monitor performance.
 – Adapting product ranges to meet changing 
customer needs.
 – Early communication of adverse trading conditions 
through functional and regional lines. Where these 
can be managed, we will address these with 
appropriate action plans/strategies to mitigate 
them where possible (and to the extent deemed 
appropriate after assessing the costs and benefits).
Production 
challenges/risks
 – The volume and timing of sales to our 
customers may vary due to fluctuating 
demand for their own products; 
our customers’ attempts to manage 
their inventory; design changes; 
changes in their manufacturing 
strategy etc. Partly as a result, many 
customers do not commit to long-term 
production schedules.
 – Our customers specify quality, 
performance and reliability standards. 
If flaws in the design or manufacture of 
our products were to occur, we could 
experience a rate of failure in our 
products that could result in delays 
in shipment and product re-work or 
replacement costs.
 – The majority of our manufacturing sites 
are located in China and other 
developing markets. Changes in these 
labour markets as well as the rapid 
economic growth and social progress 
have resulted in high labour turnover and 
considerable increases in labour costs.
 – Our operations and those of our 
suppliers and customers may be 
vulnerable to interruption by natural 
disasters or other catastrophic events. 
If a business interruption should occur, 
our business could be materially and 
adversely affected.
 – Our operations are designed to be extremely 
flexible and can accommodate a degree of volume 
fluctuation. We work very closely with our key 
suppliers to minimise lead times and maintain 
flexibility in material supplies.
 – We work very closely with key customers to ensure 
that we understand their requirements and develop 
our manufacturing capabilities to meet their needs.
 – We have invested in new mouldings, tooling, 
technology and have acquired new skills as part of 
our quality continuous improvement programme.
 – We are constantly reviewing our global footprint 
to ensure that we are located in the most cost 
effective area.
 – We are also engaged in driving LEAN manufacturing 
and automation strategies to reduce our overall 
labour content.
 – The investment in our Batam factory will give better 
geographic coverage and reduce our exposure 
in China. We continue to develop our business 
interruption plans. Business review
45 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate responsibility
Our corporate Code of Business Conduct, introduced in August 2010, codified that the 
corporation’s relationships with employees, the environment, the surrounding community, 
and stakeholders, are paramount. In that context, corporate responsibility has been a 
fundamental aspect of the cultural transformation under way at Volex.
Training programmes were still focused primarily on the 
production workforce, bringing them up to speed on new 
processes, more advanced tooling and machinery, and quality 
concerns. As additional IT investments are made in FY2013, 
additional training across other functions will be facilitated 
in order to optimise the return on those investments.
Health and safety
Health and safety aren’t merely a corporate responsibility. 
They are a core business value, a matter of protecting assets. 
Thus, the Company-wide commitment to health and safety 
resonates on both a social and a pragmatic level: Volex is a 
healthier Company when it looks after the health and welfare 
of its people.
In the second year of a codified health and safety policy, 
the Group has seen continued improvement, both in its ability 
to monitor and review health and safety performance, and in 
the quantifiable results of the policy as risks are more accurately 
identified and addressed. As risks continue to be assessed and 
analysed, the Group will be able to develop and implement 
highly targeted safety initiatives, producing more efficient and 
effective results.
Relationship with the environment
Volex takes its responsibility to the environment very seriously. 
What’s more, we recognise that there are several facets to being 
environmentally responsible. The working conditions inside our 
facilities require just as much attention as the impact our 
operations have on the natural environment outside our locations. 
Thus, for instance, as we recently undertook a major expansion 
and renovation of the manufacturing facility in Henggang, China, 
we installed new air-cooling and air-cleaning technologies to 
provide a cleaner and more controlled working environment. 
The expansion also enabled the Group to meet growing 
China-based customer demand from a local facility, thus 
reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that accompany 
long-distance shipping.
Our policy development and implementation work continues as 
we drive change in operational practices throughout our system 
and all our production facilities. The management-practice 
framework adopted last year is meshing with the Group-wide 
transformation to a culture of continuous improvement. 
Every Volex facility, therefore, is continually on the lookout for 
opportunities to reduce environmental impact. Operations 
continue to evolve as our LEAN manufacturing initiative is more 
deeply adopted, reducing waste through more efficient 
production as well as reductions in defective and damaged 
product. The result is an holistic approach that addresses 
environmental concerns on multiple levels and from 
various angles.
This has been the first full year under the guidance of the Group’s 
Code of Business Conduct. There has been considerable 
investment in employee training, which has substantially 
upgraded production capabilities and reduced staff attrition. 
There have been decreased environmental impacts, largely 
through incipient reductions in waste. Commitment to the 
surrounding community is found not only through employee 
involvement in community life, but also in a new venture to provide 
job-transition training. Finally, the Group’s responsibility to various 
stakeholder groups manifested on several different fronts. 
Relationship with the employees
To act on the Group’s corporate responsibility to employees 
requires having the infrastructure in place to enable those 
actions. In FY2012 the corporate Human Resources (HR) function 
has seen particular strengthening in Asia where approximately 
6,000 of Volex’s 8,000 employees are located, in line with the 
precepts of the Code of Business Conduct. This has enabled 
employee programmes to be tailored to the specific needs of the 
region. In FY2013 a HR director will be appointed in the United 
States to support another area with a growing representation.
Localised HR officers better enable Volex to negotiate the delicate 
balance between fundamental corporate mandates and the 
culture and customs of a region. This is a particularly crucial 
balance as the ‘One Volex’ cultural transformation continues 
throughout the Company, and as new processes and more 
rigorous customer specifications create new and often greater 
demands on employees. Many changes in Volex practices have 
been designed to provide greater job fulfilment for employees, 
which is critical to enabling higher performance. 
Communications and training 
It is a huge advantage in the labour market, especially for 
production workers, if they can be made to feel a part of the 
Company and not just doing a job. To that end, the Group is 
creating more extensive internal communications. In FY2012, 
regional newsletters were launched to communicate with our 
Chinese employees. Efforts will soon be under way to begin an 
internal newsletter that will increase our employees’ appreciation 
of the role they play in our global company.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
46 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Compliance with a range of universally accepted environmental 
regulations and certifications is another part of the Volex strategy 
for environmental sensitivity. Through the end of FY2012, all but 
one of the Group’s production facilities had met the requirements 
in the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System – and that 
last facility will reach ISO 14001 compliance during FY2013.
Finally, the Group is still making strides to reduce the use of 
hazardous materials in production. For instance, Volex has 
continued to develop its expertise in working with halogen-free 
materials in order to support the more environmentally sensitive 
customers who insist on its use, and looks for opportunities to 
move other existing clients to using halogen-free materials in their 
products. In the case of other materials, the Group is strenuously 
committed to following known legislation and regulatory 
requirements in every region we work in. These include the 
Restrictions of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and the 
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical 
substances (REACH) regulation. Volex also aligns operations with 
the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) regulations 
and assists our customers in achieving compliance as well.
The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour in respect 
of environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters as an 
integral part of the overall governance framework and believes 
that it should be fully integrated into management structures and 
systems. Further information on this is included in the Corporate 
Governance Report (Internal controls section) in this document. 
Therefore the risk management policies, procedures and 
monitoring methods described in that section apply equally to the 
identification, evaluation and control of Volex’s safety, ethical and 
environmental risks and opportunities.
Relationship with the community
Volex has always encouraged its employees to be active 
participants in the life of their community – sponsoring sports 
teams, volunteering with local organisations, contributing with 
their time, energy and even finances to local social causes. It is 
a point of corporate pride that when recruiting we employ local 
staff as much as possible.
This past year has seen new initiatives to support local 
communities. For instance, the Group’s Vietnamese production 
facility is an active member of the Social Responsibility Committee 
of Thang Long Industrial Park in Hanoi. Among the activities they 
supported or participated in this past year were scholarships 
awarded to 96 students graduating from local schools, installation 
of kindergarten playgrounds in two communities, and the building 
of a road connecting one village to a national highway.
Relationship with the stakeholders
The Group’s business is built on the confidence and commitment 
of our stakeholders. Whether they are investing in us, buying from 
us, or selling to us, those relationships are crucial to the success 
of Volex – as a business, and as a responsible corporation.
Shareholders
As Volex’s business model has become more strategic and 
sophisticated in recent years, Investor Relations has taken on 
greater import. The Group sees its investor community as active 
partners in the transformation being undertaken and efforts 
are under way to engage our shareholders more regularly 
and routinely through an expanded communications programme.
Customers
Volex’s customers are corporations, and have their own corporate 
responsibility positions. As vital and trusted partners of the Group, 
they can directly influence the approach Volex takes through their 
processes for awarding contracts. So it is incumbent on the Group 
to adopt the most rigorous corporate responsibility policies in 
preparation for customers who may demand a certain 
sustainable approach or environmental prerequisite. By being 
proactive around corporate responsibility issues, Volex not only is 
a better partner to its customers, but also modelling the behaviour 
of an industry leader.
Suppliers
‘Supply-chain integration’ has now taken on a much richer 
and more nuanced definition: more than mere integration of 
systems and processes, it now also encompasses a dovetailing of 
corporate values. Thus, in the same way that Volex has proactively 
taken on higher-level positions of corporate responsibility, it 
expects suppliers to also apply greater rigour to the way they 
do business: in part, because it is the right way to do business; 
and in part, because the only way Volex can meet the corporate-
responsibility criteria of its own customers is to get its suppliers 
aligned with the Group’s own corporate-responsibility positions 
and initiatives. To that end, Volex has continued its Supply Chain 
Excellence programme and carries out extensive annual audits of 
supplier practices, policies and processes, insisting on corrective 
action for those suppliers who do not meet baseline criteria.
Corporate responsibility 
continued Governance
47 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s introduction 
to governance
Strong governance is crucial in helping our business deliver its 
strategy. My role as Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board 
and to ensure that we have established the right environment to 
enable the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform effectively 
for the success of the Company and the benefit of its shareholders. 
We are continuing to infuse the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2010 into the organisation by ensuring we have 
the right management structures and processes in place to 
support our strategies. 
Achieving good governance and being a responsible company is 
inextricably linked with the organisational culture and the manner in 
which we manage our business. Equally, it is about what standards 
we apply in how we deal with people, whichever stakeholder group 
they might be. What we strive to do is to adopt and implement what 
is right for our business, while being open and transparent. 
Our governance structure 
The Company’s governance structure is organised to provide clear 
and responsible corporate governance practices. In addition to the 
Board, the committees supplement and help contribute to reinforce 
these practices. While we believe that Volex’s current governance 
structure is adequate to ensure compliance with the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have taken and continue 
to take steps to improve these structures and practices to support 
the overall strategy of the company. 
The reports of the committees on the following pages in this 
section explain the structures and systems we have in place to 
ensure compliance with applicable corporate governance policies 
in the areas of board composition, assessment of board 
effectiveness, and accountability. 
A balanced Board 
We believe that the Board is appropriately balanced for the needs 
of the Company and the stakeholders that the Company serves. 
The composition of the Board has been developed to ensure that 
the Company can benefit from the depth of experience and 
knowledge of our Directors, whilst allowing the Board to discharge 
its duties effectively. Having a balanced Board helps to facilitate 
objective judgement on corporate affairs independently, in an open 
and honest environment. No individual or small group of individuals 
is in a position to dominate the Board’s decision making. 
The Board is comprised of three Executive Directors, three Non-
Executive Directors and myself as Non-Executive Chairman. The 
Non-Executive Directors have all enjoyed successful business 
careers, and are well qualified to serve on the Board. The diversity 
of opinions, perspectives and insights given by the Non-Executive 
Directors inevitably contribute to having a balanced Board. 
Skills and experience 
We have a solid and experienced leadership team covering a wide 
combination of skills and expertise. This team of executives has 
been put in place to allow for significant growth of the Company, 
in a way that fits their extensive and diverse experiences. 
We have a rigorous approach to director selection and an annual 
evaluation process that includes assessing a director’s time 
commitments as well as their skills. Whilst our current practice is 
to use self-directed survey and questionnaire tools and personal 
interviews to conduct our evaluation, we will continue to evaluate 
and consider the use of external consultants to support this 
process. For both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, it is my 
responsibility to ensure that the Board maintains the best possible 
balance and that this balance is continuously reviewed in line with 
the Company’s needs and objectives.
Board diversity 
We continuously review the shape and composition of the Board for 
the future, ensuring that the benefits and importance of a diverse 
Board will be at the heart of our selection criteria and that the right 
mix of gender, expertise and experience is reflected on the Board. 
Having the mix of Executive and Non-Executive Directors enables 
us to bring together a wealth of experience gained from a variety 
of different professional and cultural backgrounds. 
Currently we have one woman director on the Board. We are in 
the process of developing our board diversity policy, which we 
plan to implement during the upcoming financial year, taking into 
account the principles set out in the Financial Reporting Council 
report on Boardroom Diversity and the guidance set out by Lord 
Davies in his Review on Women on Boards in February 2011. Volex 
recognises the importance of considering diversity when making 
appointments to the Board, whilst ensuring all appointments are 
in line with improving the effectiveness of the Board. 
Succession planning 
In May 2012, the Company appointed David McKinney as an 
Executive Director on the Board and the Chief Operating Officer 
of the Company. David’s appointment is intended to support the 
next growth phase of the Company as it continues its on-going 
transformation. David’s substantial operational experience will 
serve the company well as it pursues its growth strategy. 
Board evaluation 
Volex is committed to best practice in its governance activities. In 
line with best practices, last year we conducted a Board evaluation 
of the Full Board, our committees and individual Board Members to 
review the performance of the Board. In order to gauge progress 
with the Board on these areas, identified for development by last 
year’s survey, we have conducted the review again this year. 
Further information on this can be found at page 53. 
Priorities for FY2013
Volex strives to comply with and implement the principles of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, with focus on monitoring 
the effectiveness of the Board and using the Code to help guide 
and shape the corporate governance of the Company as it 
continues to grow. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
48 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Board of Directors
Andrew Cherry, 45, was appointed Group Finance Director on 
19 February 2009, having held the position of Interim Finance Director 
from 5 January 2009. Andrew was previously chief financial officer 
of SpinVox Limited and prior to that had held a number of executive 
positions including that of chief financial controller of Vodafone UK, 
chief financial officer of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd and chief 
financial officer of GoIndustry plc. He has also held positions in B.A.T. 
plc, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Cap Gemini Ernst & Young. Andrew 
holds an MBA from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management, 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and 
Wales and has a Bachelors degree in Physics.
Andrew Cherry Group Finance Director
Mike McTighe, 58, was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Board on 1 March 2008. He is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee and Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Mike holds the position of chairman at JJB Sports plc, WYG Group plc, 
and Nujira Ltd and is a board member of Ofcom. He is also a 
non-executive director on the boards of Betfair Group, Arran Isle Ltd 
and Quinn Group Holdco Ltd. 
Mike was previously the chairman at Pace plc, a director of London 
Metal Exchange Holdings and chairman and chief executive officer 
of Carrier International SA. Prior to that Mike was executive director 
and chief executive for the global operations of Cable & Wireless plc. 
Mike has also held senior roles with Philips, Motorola and GE and 
has more than 30 years’ experience in the TMT sector worldwide. 
Mike McTighe Chairman
David McKinney, 51, was appointed to the new position of Chief 
Operating Officer on 2 May 2012. David most recently served as chief 
operating officer of Pace plc from November 2005 to January 2012 
where he also served as a member of the board of directors. 
David brings over 20 years of experience in senior executive and 
operational roles, spending ten years in the semiconductor industry 
including NEC Semiconductors and Digital Equipment Corporation, 
before moving to and spending over ten years in the 
telecommunications sector including Motorola and Royal Philips 
Electronics. David is a Graduate of the Royal Society of Chemistry 
(hons) and holds an MBA from Heriot Watt University.
David McKinney Chief Operating Officer
Ray Walsh, 47 , was appointed Group Chief Executive on 6 April 2009. 
He served previously as chief executive of VIA NET.WORKS Inc. serving 
global clients from its head office in Amsterdam and immediately 
prior to joining Volex he led the operations, technology, products, 
communications and research of a leading market research firm 
in the US. Ray has more than 20 years’ experience in technology 
leadership and, for more than half of his career, held senior executive 
roles with international and global organisations. Ray has led 
numerous organisational and technological integrations in global 
technology and telecommunications concerns in addition to driving 
sales and operational transformations in both large scale and 
venture capital backed firms. 
Ray Walsh Group Chief Executive Governance
49 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Karen Slatford, 55, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 
27 May 2008, and is also a member of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. Karen holds the position of chairman of 
Neverfail Group, the Foundary Visionmongers, and Featurespace 
Limited. In addition Karen is a non-executive director of Microfocus 
International plc and Cambridge Broadband Network and is a 
member of the advisory board at Pentech Ventures LLP . 
Karen was previously a non-executive director for HAL Knowledge 
Solutions, Portwise AB and Compel Group plc. Between 1983 and 2011 
Karen was employed by Hewlett Packard Ltd and whilst working 
across various capacities and roles, was focused on improving the 
Company’s sales and marketing throughout the UK and globally. In 
2000, Karen was appointed chairman of Hewlett Packard UK Ltd and 
also undertook the position of vice president and general manager 
worldwide of sales and marketing, business customer organisation 
until 2001. 
Karen Slatford Non-Executive Director
Richard Arkle, 63, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
20 April 2005. Richard was Chairman of the Board from 6 May 2006 
until 1 March 2008, when he resumed the role of a Non-Executive 
Director. He is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee. Richard 
was a partner at KPMG LLP from 1 October 1982 until he retired on 
30 September 2004, where as a senior partner, he played a key role 
in developing the transaction services practice. Richard was also a 
non-executive director of SDI Group plc until December 2010, when 
the business was sold to its management. Richard is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and has 
extensive experience in a range of businesses across a number 
of market sectors. Richard also provides consultancy services to 
a variety of businesses and professional firms.
Richard Arkle Non-Executive Director
Chris Geoghegan, 57 , was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 
1 March 2008 and became the Board’s Senior Independent Director 
with effect from 31 December 2008. Chris is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Chris is also Chairman of e2v plc and 
a non-executive director of Kier Group plc and SIG plc. Up until 
31 December 2007 , Chris was the group director of BAE Systems plc 
responsible for all European joint ventures; the company’s commercial 
aerospace interests as well as the UK wholly-owned electronics 
business and shared services. Chris is a Fellow of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society and was previously president of the Society 
of British Aerospace Companies.
Chris Geoghegan Senior Independent Director
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
50 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate governance report 
 
 
Corporate governance structure 
Volex is committed to maintaining good, responsible and 
transparent corporate governance practices. A strong corporate 
governance structure is vital to achieving this. The Board is 
responsible for ensuring that the Company can generate 
sustainable growth and deliver long-term value to all stakeholders 
of the Company. The Board’s activities are supplemented by 
Nomination, Audit, Remuneration and Chairman’s Committees. 
Essential support to the Board and Board Committees is also 
provided by the Company Secretary and a strong and experienced 
global executive team. 
Statement of compliance with the Code 
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Code throughout the 52 week period ended 
1 April 2012, or FY2012, and up to the date of reporting. 
In accordance with Section B.1.1 of the Code, the Board has 
considered whether each of the Non-Executive Directors is 
independent in character and judgement. After having reviewed 
the factors that may, from a distance, cast doubt over their 
independence, it has concluded that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors are independent.  
Mike McTighe, Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford have held 
long-term incentive awards under the Volex plc Non-Executive 
Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (‘Non-Executive LTIS’). Following 
approval by the shareholders at a General Meeting on 1 October 
2010, the terms of these awards were amended. Prior to the 
General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee of the Board 
engaged with shareholders in a dialogue to remind the 
shareholders of the unique circumstances under which the 
Non-Executive LTIS was initially adopted and the reasons for the 
amendments. Full details of the scheme are given on pages 61 to 62 
of the Remuneration Report. The continuing view of the Board is that 
the Non-Executive LTIS does not compromise the independence of 
the Non-Executive Directors, as they have each applied an objective 
approach and demonstrated both dedication and integrity in their 
roles as Non-Executive Directors and the Board has no reason to 
believe that this will change in the future. 
Statement of how the principles of the Code have 
been applied 
The following paragraphs together with the Directors’ remuneration 
report set out on pages 56 to 65 and the Directors’ report set out 
on pages 66 to 72 describe how the principles of the Code have 
been applied. 
 
 
Volex is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism 
in all its activities. The Company is committed to applying industry standards of 
good practice and observes the principles of corporate governance contained in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) for which the Board is 
accountable to shareholders. 
  Governance
51 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Board of Directors 
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman and three 
Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board consider to be 
independent, together with three Executive Directors. Volex satisfies 
the Code principle that at least half of the Board should comprise 
of independent Non-Executive Directors. The biographies of the 
Directors can be found on pages 48 to 49. Volex’s Articles of 
Association provide that all Directors are subject to re-election every 
three years, which is in line with principle B.7.1 of the Code. Details 
of those Directors who will be offering themselves for election can 
be found on page 70 of the Directors’ report. The Directors are in 
agreement that the Board is of a sufficient size in order that the 
requirements of the Company can be met, and will continue to 
review this in accordance with its needs.  
The Board welcomed the publication of the Davies Review on 
Women on Boards in February 2011. There is currently one woman 
Director from a total of seven on the Board. Volex values the 
significant benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, among its 
Directors and will continue to ensure that for all new appointments, 
strong consideration is given to diversity and gender as key critical 
selection criteria. 
The Financial Reporting Council is currently consulting on changes to 
the Code which will result in a recommendation that companies 
adopt a boardroom diversity policy; we plan to adopt such a policy 
during the course of FY2013.  
On appointment, Directors receive an induction to the business 
that includes a briefing on the activities of the Group. In addition, 
the Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that all new Directors 
have access to appropriate training and advice in relation to the 
duties of Directors. The Directors are also encouraged to update 
and refresh their skills and knowledge and training for Directors is 
kept under review during the year. There is a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 
Board. Candidates are identified and selected on merit against 
objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity 
on the Board, including gender. 
During May 2012, Volex appointed a new Executive Director, 
David McKinney, who also serves as Chief Operating Officer. 
With this addition, the Board has gained substantial factory 
and operational experience to support the Company’s ambitious 
growth strategy.  
The Board is supported by Company Secretary, Matt Nydell, 
who was appointed on 18 September 2010 and brings a wealth 
of experience in corporate governance and development. 
Operation of the Board 
The Board is scheduled to meet at least ten times a year and during 
FY2012 it met 14 times. Some meetings were called at short notice. 
The Board is satisfied that it meets sufficiently regularly in order to 
discharge its duties effectively. The Board also engages in active and 
regular dialogue and consideration of various Volex issues through 
frequent electronic mail dialogue and ad-hoc conference calls. The 
frequency of the Board meetings is dictated by the supervision and 
direction required and sought by the Company’s executives in 
managing the affairs and strategy of the Company as well as the 
pace of change within the organisation. The table on page 52 
summarises the attendance by Board or Committee members at 
meetings held during the year.  
 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
52 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate governance report 
continued 
 
 
 
Board attendance record 
Board 
14 meetings
Audit 
Committee 
3 meetings
Remuneration  
Committee  
8 meetings 
Nomination 
Committee 
2 meetings
Chairman’s 
Committee
0 meetings*
Richard Arkle 14 3 – – –
Andrew Cherry 14 – – – –
Chris Geoghegan 13 3 8 2 –
Mike McTighe 13 – 7 2 –
Paul Mountford** 4 – – – –
Karen Slatford 13 3 8 2 –
Ray Walsh 14 – – – –
* The Chairman’s Committee meets only as required and its membership includes the Chairman and CEO and other members as invited by the Chairman and 
appropriate to the topic to be addressed.  
** Mr. Mountford was promoted to a high level senior role within Cisco Systems shortly after his appointment to the Board of Volex. After time, he found himself 
incapable of devoting adequate time to his director role with the Company and accordingly submitted his resignation. The Board accepted his resignation effective 
2 May 2012. 
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as 
a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, research and development, health and safety, sustainability and other relevant 
issues. The information is provided in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to discharge its duties. 
It is the Board’s practice at least once a year to visit a Volex site to ensure that members are able to maintain a first-hand appreciation of 
local conditions and issues facing the Company and to enable the Board to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are 
in place, and that the Company’s values and standards are being met. During the year, the Board met at the factory site in Suzhou, China. 
During its visit members toured the factory and also received presentations from the Company’s respective heads of each of the four sectors 
of the Volex business. Members also visited the factories of and received presentations from a Volex customer and supplier.  
Certain matters relating to the review of business performance, major strategy, policy and investment decisions affecting the Company 
and the development of Company policies in a number of areas including health and safety, social, ethical and environmental issues 
and insurance are reserved for the Board. Certain matters are delegated to the discretion of management, such as items that are included 
in the approved annual budget.  
The Board approves the annual business plan and budget of the Company which is initially prepared by senior management of each of 
the Company's sectors and then adopted by the executive team. Actual sector and Company performance against budget is reviewed by 
the Board at each Board meeting and Executive Directors comment on any areas where performance departs from current expectations. 
Significant variances are discussed by the Board and appropriate action is taken. If considered appropriate, the Board meets with senior 
operational management of the Company in order to further enhance its understanding of the Company’s key developments. Procedures 
have been adopted to enable the Board to make informed decisions on a range of key issues including those relating to strategy and 
risk management. 
A key role for the Non-Executive Directors is to provide constructive engagement with executive management in particular the Executive 
Directors, on the key issues affecting the Company. A balance of four independent Non-Executive Directors to three Executive Directors 
creates a healthy environment for executive management strategy and management proposals to be challenged and scrutinised, and 
for reporting of performances to be monitored.  
Whilst the responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors may differ, the Board collectively share the same 
responsibility in ensuring the long-term success of the Company.  
The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, setting 
its agenda and also ensuring that each Director has adequate information before making decisions. The Chairman ensures effective 
communication with shareholders and makes himself available to meet with shareholders. As Chairman, Mike McTighe also facilitates 
the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors in order to promote a culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations 
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
Chris Geoghegan, as Senior Independent Director, makes himself available to meet with shareholders. The Chief Executive, Ray Walsh, is 
responsible for the Company’s business overall and leads the execution of the Company’s strategy. The Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary and both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a 
whole. The Board practices the policy that the Directors are able to take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. 
The Chairman, the Company Chief Executive and the Company Finance Director are responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality 
of all financial information submitted to the Board. The Company Secretary is responsible for the timeliness and quality of all other 
information submitted to the Board and for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance issues. The normal procedure 
is to distribute Board papers at least five days in advance of meetings.  Governance
53 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ and officers’ insurance against legal action is in place providing cover for Directors and certain key officials of the Company and its 
subsidiaries. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the 
Company has also granted qualifying third-party indemnities to the Directors, which remain in force, copies of which will be available for 
inspection at the forthcoming AGM. Neither the insurance policy nor our indemnity provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to 
have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.  
Board effectiveness: Board evaluation 
The Board considers essential a periodic evaluation of the effectiveness, quality and focus of its members, the committees and the full Board. 
This is done through the use of a series of questionnaire surveys prepared by the Company Secretary and Chairman, in consultation with 
corporate governance best practices. Volex is committed to ensuring that the surveys cover the relevant areas and are able to clearly reflect 
the opinions of the members. The surveys requested member feedback on a number of areas critical to the assessment of the Board’s 
effectiveness, including questions about leadership within the Board, the appropriateness of the current Board composition, the process 
associated with the appointment of new members, the level of commitment of members, the Company’s support for continuing 
development of the Directors, the quality and timeliness of information provided to the Board by management and the Company Secretary, 
engagement with shareholders, and an independent view of the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors. 
Last year, the Board, Board committee and Board member evaluations were conducted, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, to 
review the performance of the Board for the financial year ending 2011. The results of the evaluation indicated a general satisfaction of the 
members as to the workings of the Board and its interaction with senior management. Board members also sought further opportunities 
for continuing development and a more active role in the Company’s strategic planning process. As a result of last year’s evaluation, the 
Chairman has established a regular calendar of meetings between the Executive Directors, CEO and Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director. The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executives Directors without the Executive Directors present, and vice versa. There are 
also meetings held with the CEO without the presence of other Executive Directors. These meetings were instituted to foster an open 
environment for the Group to address any issues they may have.  
Once again this year the Board members have been asked to take part in an evaluation of the Board. All members of the Board were in 
agreement that the Board demonstrated an ethical leadership and that the Non-Executive Directors had effectively discharged their duties. 
There was also strong agreement by the Directors that the Chairman’s performance during the financial year of 2012 was highly positive. 
Board Committees 
The Board has established the following Committees, each of which has adopted written terms of reference dealing clearly with the 
Committee’s authority and duties. Revised terms of reference for the Audit and Remuneration Committees were adopted during the year 
and all Committee terms of reference are available on request and on the Company’s website (www.volex.com). During FY2011, the Board 
established the Chairman’s Committee to address issues that fall outside the remit of other Committees and the regularly-scheduled 
Board meetings. 
The Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is comprised of Mike McTighe, who is Chairman of the Committee, Chris Geoghegan and Karen Slatford, 
all of whom have been determined to be independent Non-Executive Directors.  
Board appointments are considered initially by the Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the full Board for further 
consideration and approval. In performing its duties the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board, which enables it to determine the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment. The Nomination Committee 
takes advice from a variety of sources including external recruitment consultants when considered appropriate. The Board seeks to maintain 
an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary, Matt Nydell is Secretary to the Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Chris Geoghegan, who is Chairman of the Committee, Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford. 
The Company Secretary, Matt Nydell acts as Secretary to the Committee. The structure and business of the Remuneration Committee is 
summarised in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 56 to 65. 
The Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, Richard Arkle, Chairman of the Committee, Karen Slatford and 
Chris Geoghegan. Richard Arkle is regarded by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.  
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Director of Business Assurance are invited to attend 
regular meetings; however the Audit Committee also meets without the Executive Directors at least once a year. 
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the Group together with any formal 
announcements in relation to the Group’s financial performance. It reviews the Company’s internal financial controls and also reviews 
the scope and effectiveness of the internal audit function, although the Company’s internal control and risk management processes  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
54 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate governance report 
continued 
 
 
are considered by the Board as a whole. The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the external auditors. It considers the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. Furthermore, the Audit Committee monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors 
and the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by the external auditor by analysing fees for audit and non-audit work; by receiving 
from, and discussing with, the auditors their annual report regarding their independence policies and procedures; and by receiving from the 
auditors confirmation that they have complied with APB Ethical Standards.  
During the year the Committee reviewed the provision of overall assurance within the Company, including a review of external audit 
arrangements. As part of this review, the Committee, jointly with the Board, recommended that the Company should seek the 
reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external auditors to the Company and Group at the AGM to be held on 25 July 2011. 
At the 2011 AGM, the resolution was passed to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. During the year, the Board adopted a policy 
statement setting out principles for the use of the external auditors for non-audit services. The policy is intended to ensure that the Board 
has an adequate opportunity to review the continuing independence and objectivity of the Company’s external auditors and is in line with 
the Code and the most recent Audit Practices Board Ethical Standards 5.  
The respective responsibilities of the Directors in connection with the financial statements are explained in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement in the Directors’ report and in the Auditors’ report. The Directors seek to ensure the independence of the auditors by requesting 
an annual confirmation of independence, which includes the disclosure of all non-audit fees.  
Chairman’s Committee 
The Chairman’s Committee was established during 2010 and comprises Mike McTighe, Chairman of the Committee, Ray Walsh and one or 
more of the other Directors as invited by the Chairman of the Committee. The Committee acts on behalf of and with full power of the Board 
when, as between scheduled Board meetings, it is not practicable to convene a meeting of the Board and a matter is not reserved for the 
Nomination, Remuneration or Audit Committees; and when specific delegations are conferred upon it by the Board. The Chairman’s 
Committee meets on an ad-hoc basis during the year, as required. This year, no Chairman’s Committee meetings were held.  
Internal controls 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness 
of this system. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and control the significant risks associated with the Group’s achievement of 
its business objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. Because of the limitations that are 
inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Company’s particular needs and the risks to which it is 
exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk. Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. During the year the Board continued to revisit its risk identification and assessment 
processes, inviting Board members and senior management to convene and discuss the Group’s key risks and mitigating controls. 
The output from these sessions was a comprehensive Risk Register, explaining the key risks faced by the Group, their potential impacts 
and how these risks are being managed. 
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Group’s system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness. To identify 
and manage key risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has set up a framework for reporting and 
escalating matters of significance, has authorised the Audit Committee to undertake reviews of the effectiveness of management actions in 
addressing key Group risks identified by the Board, has developed a system of regular reports from management setting out key performance and 
risk indicators and has reserved specific, key matters for its decision. This process is designed to provide assurance by way of cumulative 
assessment and is embedded in operational management and governance processes. 
Key elements of the Group’s system of internal control which have operated throughout the year are: 
– a clearly defined organisation structure with established responsibilities; 
– a simple and focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk exposures; 
– Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required 
behaviour; 
– continuous review of operating performance and monitoring of monthly results, annual budgets, and periodic forecasts; 
– a centrally coordinated business assurance programme which uses both internal and external resource to support the Board in its role 
of ensuring a sound control environment; and  
– completion by business unit management of an annual internal control assessment confirming compliance with Group policies and 
procedures, detailing controls in operation and listing any weaknesses. 
   Governance
55 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance framework and believes that it should be 
fully integrated into management structures and systems. Therefore the risk management policies, procedures and monitoring methods 
described above apply equally to the identification, evaluation and control of Volex’s safety, ethical and environmental risks and 
opportunities. This approach ensures that the Company has the necessary and adequate information to identify and assess risks and 
opportunities affecting the Company’s long-term value arising from its handling of corporate responsibility and corporate governance 
matters. Further, this approach has enabled the Company to comply with the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of British 
Insurers on socially responsible investment which require listed companies to report to shareholders and give assurance that the Company 
is managing its risks in these matters. 
The Board has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year to 1 April 2012 and is satisfied 
that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance. The assessment included consideration of the effectiveness of the Board’s ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group.  
Whistle-blowing policy 
The Company has a whistle-blowing policy (‘Right-to-Speak’), which is publicised to employees via email, on the Group’s Intranet website 
and on-site notice boards. The aim of the policy is to encourage all employees, regardless of seniority, to bring matters that cause them 
concern to the attention of the Audit Committee. 
The Business Assurance Director, where appropriate in consultation with the executive management team, decides on the appropriate 
method and level of investigation. The Audit Committee is notified of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of 
investigations and actions taken. The Audit Committee has the power to request further information, conduct its own inquiries or order 
additional action as it sees fit. 
To ensure that the policy is properly understood, training sessions on the policy are held throughout the Group’s locations. 
Further information regarding this policy can be found in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 45 to 46. 
Relations with shareholders 
Volex understands the importance of open dialogue with its investors. The Board actively engaged with shareholders throughout the year 
to explain corporate proposals and strategy and solicit their commentary and feedback. Our Executive Directors conducted numerous 
one-on-one and group investor meetings to ensure good understanding of the Group’s financial results and factors impacting our Group’s 
performance. We held a well-attended investor day in February of this year at which the Group’s executive team were introduced in person 
to shareholders and provided an opportunity to articulate our corporate strategy. The meeting was attended by approximately 70 
institutional fund managers and equity research analysts.  
Maintaining an open channel for discussion with shareholders through face-to-face dialogue, investor seminars or presentations has 
allowed Volex to better understand the concerns and emerging governance views of our important stakeholders. This process alongside 
efforts from the Chairman and Chief Executive, is the most practical and efficient means of ensuring that the views of shareholders are 
communicated to the Board as a whole. The process has also allowed the Company to better and more pro-actively explain the Company 
strategy and business model to a wider group. One result of this more active approach is that four new sell-side equity research analysts 
initiated coverage on the Company during FY2012.  
It is part of the Group’s policy that all Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and the Board encourages all shareholders to attend 
and participate at the AGM to enable it to be a forum for substantive communication with investors. 
What has the Board achieved this year? 
– Continued to review corporate governance process; 
– Actively engaged shareholders in dialogue and consultations; 
– Enhanced the executive team and Board with the addition of a new head of Sales and Marketing and a new Chief Operating Officer; 
– Visited a Volex factory site in Suzhou and engaged in dialogue with a key customer and supplier of Volex; 
– Reviewed effectiveness and commitment of the Board through annual Board Evaluations; 
– Adopted new Terms of Reference for Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Chairman’s Committee; 
– Established a new policy for matters reserved for the Board; and 
– Supervised the implementation of fiduciary training to all management and company subsidiary board members. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
56 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report 
 
 
Introduction 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’). The Report also meets the relevant requirements of 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the ‘Code’). A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the 2012 
Annual General Meeting.  
The Auditors are required to report to the shareholders on certain sections of this Report and to state whether those sections have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited 
and unaudited information. The audited information commences on page 63. 
UNAUDITED INFORMATION 
Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) during the year were Chris Geoghegan, Chairman of the Committee, 
Mike McTighe and Karen Slatford, all of whom have been determined to be independent Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee. The Chief Executive Officer and Group HR Director provide advice to and attend meetings of the 
Committee. No individual is present at discussions regarding his or her own remuneration. The Committee held 8 meetings during the 
year and the attendance of each member is set out on page 52. 
Key activities undertaken during FY2012 
In line with the responsibilities set out in the Committee’s terms of reference the following key issues were discussed during the year: 
– approval of the FY2011 Directors’ remuneration report; 
– review of Performance Share Plan against targets set; 
– review of new Performance Share Plan awards, taking into account total value and likely maturity of awards made under this plan; 
– review of Executive Directors’ shareholdings; 
– consideration of advisory bodies’ and institutional investors’ current guidelines on executive compensation; 
– annual review and ratification of remuneration packages for Directors, incorporating institutional investor feedback; 
– establish targets for FY2012 annual cash bonuses; and 
– review of the Committee’s terms of reference. The revised terms of reference as adopted by the Board on 20 April 2011 can be found 
on the Company website. 
The Committee keeps itself informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of remuneration and seeks advice from 
its appointed independent external advisers, Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’). Kepler attends periodic Remuneration Committee meetings and 
provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular market and best practice 
updates. Kepler reports directly to the Remuneration Committee Chairman and complies with the Code of Conduct for Remuneration 
Consultants (which can be found at http://www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com). Kepler is paid on a retainer basis and provides 
no other services to the Company.  
None of the Committee members have any conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running 
the business. The only personal financial interest that any of the Committee members have in the Company, other than as shareholders, 
is in respect of their participation in the Non-Executive Director LTIS scheme under which one-off awards were made following approval 
by shareholders in December 2008. As explained on page 62, the performance period corresponding to these awards ended on 
25 March 2012. 
Remuneration policy 
The Committee, together with the Board of Directors of the Company, sets the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and other senior executives within the scope of the Committee remit. In the context of that broad policy for each of the Executive Directors 
and senior executives the Committee then determines and reviews, at least annually, the specific remuneration packages including annual 
bonus plans and awards under the Company’s share incentive arrangements. In addition, the Committee approves the terms of service 
agreements of all Executive Directors and also the terms of appointment of certain senior executives. Termination payments are also 
considered by the Committee, although it is mindful of its duty not to reward failing performance.  
This report deals solely with the remuneration and terms of service of the Board Directors of the Company. The policy of the Committee in 
relation to the Executive Directors is to maintain remuneration packages sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executives of the calibre and 
experience necessary to provide a successful future for the business, within a framework that is aligned with the interests of the Company’s 
shareholders, external stakeholders, and our risk policies and processes.  Governance
57 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide a balanced remuneration package, with the main components of Executive Director 
remuneration being the following: 
Component Objective Fixed or variable Performance period Current policy 
Basic salary To position the role to be competitive with 
similar roles in comparable international 
manufacturing companies. 
Fixed Annual Individual pay levels determined by reference to 
performance, responsibility, skills and experience in 
post. Consideration given to the wider pay levels and 
salary increases across the Group. 
Annual bonus scheme To incentivise delivery of short-term 
performance objectives. 
Variable Annual Bonus payments are based on the achievement of 
challenging operating profit targets. Maximum bonus 
entitlement set at 100% of base salary. Bonus paid in 
cash. 
Performance Share Plan To drive performance, aid retention and align 
the interests of Executive Directors with 
shareholders. 
Variable Three or four years Annual Performance Share awards limited to 100% of 
base salary per annum. Vesting of awards based on 
total shareholder return (‘TSR’), a function of share 
price and dividends. Performance periods of three 
and four years. 
Pension and other benefits To provide competitive benefits in line with 
market practice. 
Fixed Ongoing Executive Directors receive a pension contribution of 
20% of salary, a car allowance, private health 
insurance and death in service cover. 
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance related and that 
the remuneration package should reward both individual and corporate performance. Short-term incentives are linked to challenging 
strategic targets, which support and reinforce the objectives of the Company. Long-term share-based awards focus the executives on the 
sustained development of the Group and align their interests with those of the shareholders.  
In deciding and reviewing appropriate remuneration packages, the Committee considers: 
– the positioning of Executive Director pay relative to companies of a similar size and companies operating in a similar sector to Volex;  
– remuneration expectations in the geographical area of operation;  
– surveys published by leading remuneration consultants supplemented by specific advice and benchmarking exercises by external 
consultants and the knowledge and experience of the members of the Committee;  
– the competition, risks, challenges, complexity, diversity and international spread of the Group’s business;  
– the particular expertise and understanding required of the Directors concerned, the responsibilities undertaken and their performance 
and progress in their role in the financial year; and 
– pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group. 
Kepler Associates are invited annually to advise the Company in respect of general executive pay trends and specific pay comparators. 
The comparators are derived from companies of similar size and/or industry to Volex and specific comparisons are adjusted for market 
capitalisation and revenue. Salary increases for Executive Directors and executive team members for FY2012 was generally 2.3% annualised. 
Salary increases for the general workforce are awarded on a geographic basis and informed by proprietary pay benchmark data provided 
by Mercer. These ranged from 2.3% annualised at Head Office in the UK to 34.5% in Vietnam. Overall, the Group average pay increase was 
approximately 7.0% annualised, part of which was the result of deliberate up-skilling of employees. 
The Committee considers its policy to be appropriate for FY2013 and for subsequent financial years. The Committee is currently reviewing the 
performance conditions for new grants under the Performance Share Plan and in particular whether the use of total shareholder return as a 
single condition continues to be appropriate under the current conditions of the Company. When the Committee has determined the 
appropriate structure for awards going forward, it intends to consult with a range of shareholders to solicit their views on the proposal. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
58 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
 
 
Basic salary and benefits 
The Committee determines Executive Directors’ basic salaries annually, with adjustments normally being made with effect from 1 April each 
year. In reviewing Executive Director base salary levels for FY2012 the Committee considered current market conditions, the Company’s 
performance in FY2011/FY2012 and the principles applying to decisions on general salary increases across the rest of the organisation. 
In addition, the Committee took into account that there were no Executive Director salary increases in FY2011. 
The base salary increase awarded to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director was 2.3% on an annualised basis. 
Current annual base salaries for FY2012 for Executive Directors are shown in the Directors’ emoluments table on page 63. 
In addition to basic salary and pension benefits, the Executive Directors also receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally a car allowance 
and fuel costs, private medical insurance, life assurance and assistance in the cost of relocation where considered appropriate. 
In the event that an Executive Director is required to relocate to another country the Committee may award an expatriation allowance 
for a limited number of years.  
Bonus arrangements 
A discretionary annual cash bonus scheme represents the short-term variable incentive element of the overall remuneration package for 
Executive Directors. Under the scheme, Executive Directors can earn up to a maximum of 100% of salary. The Committee establishes the 
objectives that must be met in each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid, reflecting the key financial objectives set by the Board for 
the year in question. The bonus plan for the financial year to 1 April 2012 was structured to reward exemplary group operating profit 
performance. While the Company met analyst consensus expectations for operating profit, the targets for bonus rewards were not met 
and therefore, no bonuses were paid to Executive Directors under this scheme in respect of the year ended 1 April 2012. 
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Following its approval and subsequent amendment by shareholders in December 2008 and October 2010, respectively, the Volex Group plc 
Performance Share Plan 2009 (‘PSP’) is the principal scheme through which the Company provides long-term incentive awards to Executive 
Directors and other senior executives.  
The PSP seeks to reward and encourage long-term performance by providing incentives linked to the long-term performance of the 
Company’s shares. During the year, key senior executives and managers received awards of nominal-value options with an exercise price 
of 25p. The maximum annual limit for awards made under the PSP is 100% of salary. In exceptional circumstances the Committee has 
discretion to make awards above this limit. 
FY2012 PSP awards 
The Executive Directors were granted two awards under the PSP in FY2011, a three-year award vesting on the third anniversary of the date 
of grant and a four-year award vesting on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant. Consequently, no PSP awards were made to the 
Executive Directors in FY2012.  
For awards granted to other executives during the financial year ended 1 April 2012, the Committee determined to use three year 
performance period awards subject to Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance targets, as set out in the table below. In making these 
awards, the Committee believed that TSR was the most appropriate measure of long-term performance for the Company under the 
then-current circumstances, and provided strong alignment with shareholder interests.  
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject to 
award that vest
Less than or equal to 342p Zero
Greater than or equal to 700p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over each dealing day in the month prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period is between the targets set out above, then the percentage of shares which vest will be calculated 
on a straight-line basis. The vesting date for the awards granted in FY2012 is the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
   Governance
59 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
FY2011 PSP awards 
For PSP awards granted during the financial year ended 3 April 2011, the Committee used a combination of three- and four–year 
performance period awards, with both awards subject to absolute Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance targets, as set out in the 
tables below.  
FY2011 three-year awards 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject to 
award that vest
Less than or equal to 225p Zero
328p 25%
Greater than or equal to 620p 100%
FY2011 four-year awards 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject to 
award that vest
Less than or equal to 250p Zero
372p 25%
Greater than or equal to 700p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over each dealing day in the month prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period is between the targets set out above, then the percentage of shares which vest will be calculated on a 
straight-line basis. 
The vesting date for the three- and four-year awards is the third and fourth anniversary of the date of grant respectively. As two awards were 
made under the PSP in FY2011, no PSP awards were made to Executive Directors in FY2012. 
FY2010 PSP awards 
All PSP awards granted during the financial year ended 4 April 2010 have a Performance Period of three years (commencing on the date 
of grant of award) and are subject to a TSR performance target, as shown in the table below: 
TSR
1
 target 
% of shares subject to 
award that vest
Less than or equal to 90p Zero
Greater than or equal to 170p 100%
1. TSR is defined as the aggregate of share price (average mid-market quotations for a Company share over each dealing day in the month prior to the maturity date) 
plus any dividends paid (or declared, if the shares ex-dividend on the maturity date) during the period, rolled up at 3% per annum over the remainder of the 
performance period. 
If TSR in the Performance Period falls between the two targets set out above, then the percentage of shares which vest will be calculated 
on a straight-line basis. 
Subject to the performance target attaching to an award being met, an award may be exercised at any time during the six months that 
follow the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
Prior to the adoption of the PSP Plan, the Volex Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was the Company’s principal long-term incentive 
scheme. Under the LTIP two types of awards were made: Share Matching Awards and Performance Share Awards. At 3 April 2011 and 
1 April 2012, all Share Matching Awards had lapsed. 
Performance Share Awards made under the LTIP are structured as an option to acquire shares in the Company for their nominal value. 
The option is normally capable of exercise if the participant is an employee at the point of exercise and demanding performance conditions 
set at the date of grant of the Performance Share Award are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period. Performance Share 
Awards to any individual in any one financial year were limited to 100% of basic salary. 
The Executive Directors have not been granted awards under the LTIP. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
60 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
 
FY2009 LTIP awards 
In relation to the Performance Share Awards made during the financial year ended 5 April 2009 all of the shares subject to each award were 
subject to the ‘share price target’ set out in the table below: 
Total shareholder return
1
 target 
% of shares subject to 
award that vest
Less than 115p Zero
Equal to 115p 25%
Equal to 155p 50%
Equal to 200p 100%
1. In determining the percentage of shares subject to an award that will vest, the share price target is compared with the average mid-market quotations for a Company 
share over the five dealing days prior to the maturity date (i.e. three years from the grant of the award). 
In addition to the share price targets, these awards were subject to an EPS underpin. Accordingly, for LTIP awards granted in July 2008 
to become capable of exercise fully, the EPS for the financial year ending 3 April 2011 (‘Actual EPS’) must equal or exceed 18p per share. 
As reported in the FY2011 Annual Report and Accounts, the EPS for the financial year ending 3 April 2011 was 21.8p (‘Actual EPS’).  
Both the share price and EPS performance conditions were satisfied in full during the year and, as a result, these FY2009 LTIP awards vested 
in full, and were exercised, during FY2012. None of the Directors participated in the FY2009 LTIP. 
At 1 April 2012 there are no remaining awards outstanding under the LTIP. 
Restricted Scheme 
The Company also operates a Restricted Share scheme. Any nominated employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may participate 
in the Restricted Scheme. It is intended that the Restricted Scheme will be limited to key executives. An award will take the form of a nil-cost 
option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, granted by the trustee of an employee benefit trust established by the Company. 
No awards were made to Executive Directors under the Restricted Scheme in FY2012. 
Pension arrangements  
The provision of pension benefits for Executive Directors is considered in the context of the overall remuneration package and in the light 
of each executive’s particular circumstances. Ray Walsh and Andrew Cherry are members of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, with 
entitlements to Company contributions of 20% of basic salary. It is the policy of the Company that only basic salary of the Executive Directors 
is pensionable. 
Performance graph 
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 
All Share Index and the FTSE Electronic and Electrical Equipment sector, both also measured by total shareholder return. These indices have 
been selected for this comparison because they represent the general and specific markets/sectors in which the Company is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. 
Volex
Five year total shareholder return
FTSE All Share electronic and electrical equipment FTSE All Share
Apr 07
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Apr 08 Apr 09 Apr 10 Apr 11 Apr 12 Governance
61 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ contracts 
Executive Directors 
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for each Executive Director continue until the Director’s contractual retirement date (or such 
date as agreed between the Director and the Company) unless terminated earlier by either party, subject to the contractual notice period 
of not more than one year.  
Details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Name of Director Term 
Effective date of service 
contract or letter of 
appointment Notice period
Andrew Cherry Indefinite 19.02.2009 6 months
David McKinney
1
 Indefinite 02.05.2012 12 months
Ray Walsh Indefinite 06.04.2009 12 months
1. David McKinney was appointed as a Director of the Company after the year end, on 2 May 2012.  
In accordance with the Company’s policy the Directors’ contracts do not include any specific provisions relating to compensation in the event 
of termination. In the event of termination of an Executive Director’s service agreement, the Company would give notice to the Executive 
Director and/or make payment in lieu of notice, with due allowance in appropriate circumstances for the Director’s duty to mitigate his loss. 
There were no payments for compensation of loss of office made to any Directors during the year.  
Ray Walsh’s service agreement provides for a payment for loss of service in the event of a change of control of the Company or similar event. 
This provision expired on 9 March 2012. Executive Directors’ service contracts, which include details of remuneration together with copies of 
the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment, will be available for inspection prior to and at the 2012 AGM. 
Under the Articles of Association of the Company at each AGM any Director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the 
previous AGM, and any Director then in office who at the date of the notice convening the AGM has (i) been appointed by the Board since 
the previous annual general meeting; or (ii) held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at 
either of them; or (iii) has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or 
more at the date of the meeting, is required to retire from office but is eligible for re-election. At the 2012 AGM, Ray Walsh, Andrew Cherry 
and David McKinney will be up for re-election. 
External appointments 
The Executive Directors do not hold any external Director appointments. 
Non-Executive Directors 
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement. The Company’s policy for Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
is to have contracts for services, documented in a Letter of Appointment. These Letters of Appointment were renewed after the year end and 
new rolling agreements were entered into, which remain in force until terminated by either party.  
Details of the Non-Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Name of Director 
Effective date of service 
contract or letter of 
appointment Notice period
Non-Executive Directors 
Richard Arkle 26.04.2012 3 months 
Chris Geoghegan 26.04.2012 3 months
Mike McTighe 26.04.2012 3 months
Paul Mountford
1
 03.12.2010 3 months 
Karen Slatford 26.04.2012 3 months
1. Paul Mountford resigned from his role as Non-Executive Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. By mutual consent, he was not paid any termination amounts. 
The fee paid to each Non-Executive Director in the year is set out in the table on page 63. The fee payable to the Company Chairman is 
reviewed and determined annually by members of the Committee (excluding the Company Chairman) following consultation with the Group 
Chief Executive and assisted by market data provided by Kepler Associates. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.  
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in the LTIP, the PSP Plan nor the Restricted Scheme and are not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme.   
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
62 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
 
 
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) 
The LTIS was approved by shareholders in 2008 when it was considered imperative by the Directors that the Non-Executive Directors be 
incentivised to return cash to shareholders over the three year period to 25 March 2012. Decisions on the LTIS are made by the Executive 
Directors of the Board. 
The terms of the LTIS were amended during FY2011, following approval by the shareholders in October 2010, with the number of LTIS awards 
receivable by each eligible Non-Executive Director now calculated as an option over a number of units based on the Average Value Attained
1
 
at the end of the three year period to 25 March 2012. 
The number of units awarded under the LTIS is 800,000 units and the details of the Average Value Attained target is shown in the 
table below:  
Average Value Attained target 
% of units
that may vest
Less than 114p Zero
Greater than or equal to 114p 87.5%
Greater than or equal to 250p 100%
Subject to the achievement of the Average Value Attained target as described above and the award-holder remaining in office at the 
relevant date, awards will vest in three equal tranches on 25 March in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014. Assuming these conditions have been 
satisfied, awards may be exercised at any time during the period commencing 21 days after the vesting date (of that tranche) until the fifth 
anniversary of the vesting date (of that tranche). The amendments made in 2010 will allow the Company to satisfy the LTIS award in either 
Company shares or cash.  
The Average Value Attained at 25 March 2012 amounted to 264.7p and all three eligible Non-Executive Directors were still in office at that 
date. Accordingly 266,666 units (one-third of the total 800,000 units) vested on 25 March 2012. Each holder is now entitled to exercise one 
third of the number of units held by the holder. At the date of this report, none of the Non-Executive Directors had exercised any portion of 
their award. The remaining two tranches of 266,667 units each will vest on 25 March 2013 and 25 March 2014, and each award holder will 
be entitled to exercise a further third of the award number on each of these dates, subject to the award holders remaining as Directors as of 
each such date. 
Awards held by Non-Executive Directors under the LTIS are shown on page 64 of this report. The Board intends that no further awards will 
be made under the LTIS. 
The market price of Volex plc shares, to which the PSP and LTIP awards relate, at 1 April 2012 was 257p. The highest and lowest market 
prices of the shares during FY2012 was 358p and 218p respectively. 
  
 
1 nary share in the Company on 25 March 2012 (or, if earlier, on a change of control of the Company) 
averaged over a period of 20 dealing days preceding that date, plus dividends paid in the three years preceding that (or, if the shares are ex-dividend on 25 March 
2012, the corresponding dividend declared). 
 Average Value Attained is defined as the average price per ordi . Governance
63 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
AUDITED INFORMATION 
Directors’ emoluments 
Details of the emoluments of those Directors who were in office during the financial period ended 1 April 2012 are set out below: 
 
Fees/basic
salary
£
Benefits in 
kind 
£ 
Annual 
bonuses 
£ 
2012
Total
£
2011
Total
£
Executive Directors   
Andrew Cherry 244,152 15,438 – 259,590 289,877
David McKinney
1
 – – – – –
Ray Walsh
2
 369,818 57,641 – 427,459 441,463
   
Non-Executive Directors   
Richard Arkle
3
 35,000 – – 35,000 35,000
Chris Geoghegan
4
 35,000 – – 35,000 35,000
Mike McTighe 125,000 – – 125,000 125,000
Paul Mountford
5
 30,000 – – 30,000 7,500
Karen Slatford 30,000 − – 30,000 30,000
 868,970 73,079 – 942,049 963,840
1. David McKinney was appointed a Director of the Company on 2 May 2012. 
2. Included in Ray Walsh’s benefits-in-kind is £31,697 received as a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution. 
3. For his services as a Non-Executive Director Richard Arkle receives an annual fee of £35,000, comprising a Non-Executive Director fee of £26,000 and an additional 
£9,000 for chairing the Audit Committee. 
4. As the Board’s Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chris Geoghegan receives an annual fee of £35,000, which includes a fee of £4,000 for chairing the 
Remuneration Committee. 
5. Paul Mountford resigned on 2 May 2012.  
The Directors do not receive general expense allowances but are reimbursed specific reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the 
Company’s business. There were no payments for compensation of loss of office made in the year and no payments of any kind were 
made to former Directors during the year. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
64 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report 
continued 
 
 
Directors’ interest in long-term incentive scheme   
Details of the Directors’ interest in long-term incentive schemes are set out below: 
Volex Group plc Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
 
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
held at
4 April 2011
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
granted during 
FY2012
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
lapsed during 
FY2012 
Number of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
held at
1 April 2012
Exercise price of 
shares subject to 
PSP options 
(£)
Andrew Cherry 905,623 – – 905,623 0.25
Ray Walsh 1,252,322 – – 1,252,322 0.25
No PSP awards vested during the year ended 1 April 2012. 
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) 
No LTIP options or awards were held during the year ended 1 April 2012 by any of the Directors.  
Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) 
Non-Executive Directors interests in the LTIS are as follows: 
 
Number of 
award units at
 4 April 2011
Number of 
award units 
granted during 
FY2012
Number of 
award units 
lapsed during 
FY2012 
Number of 
award units at 
1 April 2012
% interest in 
award units at 
1 April 2012
Chris Geoghegan 80,000 − − 80,000 10%
Mike McTighe 640,000 − − 640,000 80%
Karen Slatford 80,000 − − 80,000 10%
Total units in Bonus Pool 800,000 800,000
Details of the LTIS, including explanation of the vesting of the first tranche of 266,666 units, representing one-third of each Non-Executive 
Director’s LTIS interest in the year, are set out on page 62 of this Remuneration report. 
Directors’ pension entitlements 
Pension contributions in respect of Directors payable by the Group during the year were as follows: 
 
2012
£
2011
£
Andrew Cherry
1
 61,118 57,739
Ray Walsh
2
 54,182 30,625
1. Andrew Cherry is a member of the Volex Group Personal Pension Plan, a money purchase scheme, to which the Company makes a contribution of 20%. 
2. Ray Walsh elected to take £31,697 of his pension entitlement as a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution and this cash payment is reflected in the table of 
Directors’ emoluments on page 63. 
Directors’ interest in shares of the Company 
The interests in the share capital of the Company of those Directors who were in office at 1 April 2012, together with their interests at 3 April 
2011, or date of appointment if later, are detailed below. The table details separately beneficial interests and share options issued to the 
Directors (both prior to and upon their appointment), under the PSP and the LTIS. All interests relate solely to 25p Ordinary shares. 
 
Shares held at 
1 April 2012
Shares held at 
3 April 2011
PSP awards at 
1 April 2012
PSP awards at  
3 April 2011 
LTIS awards at 
1 April 2012
LTIS awards at 
3 April 2011
Richard Arkle 184,000 184,000 − − − −
Andrew Cherry 41,765 41,765 905,623 905,623 − −
Chris Geoghegan − − − − 80,000 80,000
Mike McTighe 107,000 105,000* − − 640,000 640,000
Paul Mountford − − − −
Karen Slatford − – − − 80,000 80,000
Ray Walsh 57,000 42,500 1,252,322 1,252,322 − −
* This figure has been amended from last year’s Annual Report to show Mike McTighe’s individual shareholdings. In previous years this figure has been the combined 
shareholding held by Mike and his children who were under the age of 18 and therefore were connected persons. 
There have been no changes to the Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company between 1 April 2012 and the date of this report. 
   Governance
65 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ interest in transactions with related parties 
On 23 August 2011 Andrew Cherry fully repaid an advance of £65,505, that he had originally received on 4 March 2011, from the Volex 
Group plc Employee Share Trust, a related party of the Company. This advance, which was outstanding at the beginning of the financial year 
and on which interest accrued at 4% per annum, was settled in cash and there is no balance remaining outstanding at 1 April 2012.  
Except for the above, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or with any other 
related party. 
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 May 2012. 
Chris Geoghegan 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
29 May 2012 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
66 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union. Under Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
– state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business. 
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They have general responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that 
comply with applicable law and regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the section of Board of Directors on pages 48 and 49, confirm that, to the best 
of their knowledge: 
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 
– the management report business review, contained in the Directors’ report and the operating and financial review section in this 2012 
Annual Report and Accounts, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces;  
– so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
– each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
 
By order of the Board 
Ray Walsh Andrew Cherry 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
29 May 2012 29 May 2012 
  Governance
67 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited financial statements and independent 
auditors’ report for the financial year ended 1 April 2012. 
Principal activities and business review 
Volex plc is a leading global provider of customised electrical and optical interconnect solutions and provides global support to leading 
producers of consumer products, telecommunication systems, networking devices, medical equipment and other industrial products.  
The Company operates through overseas subsidiary companies in Asia, Europe, North and South America. The subsidiary undertakings 
principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed on page 123.  
A review of the development and performance of the business of the Group, including the financial performance during the year, the key 
performance indicators focused on and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, can be found on pages 10 to 
44 and also the Corporate responsibility statement which can be found on pages 45 to 46. 
Change of name and presentation currency 
On 25 July 2011 the Company changed its name from Volex Group plc to Volex plc following the passing of a special resolution at the FY2011 
Annual General Meeting. 
During the year, the Company changed its presentation and reporting currency from Pounds Sterling, or GBP, to US Dollars, or USD. As the 
Company no longer operates any manufacturing facilities in the UK and as the proportion of GBP denominated business activity carried out 
by the Group has been decreasing, with the Group’s revenues and profits increasingly generated in USD, transitioning to a USD reporting 
currency, better reflects the underlying trading performance and reduces translation related distortions in reported results caused by 
exchange rate movements. A change in presentation currency is a change in accounting policy that is accounted for retrospectively. 
Statutory financial information included in the Company’s Annual Report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 3 April 2011 and 4 April 2010 
previously reported in GBP has been re-stated into USD. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Included on pages 40 to 44 is an outline of the principal risks facing the Group. Given the current economic circumstances and the guidance 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council, additional disclosures are included in Note 2 to the financial statements regarding the basis on 
which the Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. 
Cancellation of preference shares and dividend 
After obtaining shareholder approval at the FY2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company applied to the court to reduce the capital of the 
Company and cancel its 7% cumulative preference shares in order to simplify its capital structure. On 31 August 2011 a court order confirming 
the reduction of capital of the Company was registered by the Registrar of Companies, pursuant to which all of the 80,000 7% cumulative 
preference shares of £1.00 each were redeemed and cancelled. The reduction of capital was at par value together with the accrued 
dividend up to an including the date on which the preference shares were cancelled.  
The Directors have recommended that a final dividend of 3.0 cents per share be paid to the holders of ordinary shares on the register of 
members of the Company at the close of business on 27 July 2012, or the record date. After taking into account the 1.5 cents per share paid 
as an interim dividend to shareholders on the register at 6 January 2012, the total dividend payable in respect of FY2012 is 4.5 cents. (FY2011: 
2.0 pence). 
Shareholders will continue to have the option to receive this dividend in either USD or GBP with the Company’s Registrars providing 
a currency election facility. Any election made by shareholders for the FY2012 interim dividend will continue in force unless rescinded. 
Shareholders who prefer to receive their dividend in USD must make their election to receive their dividend in USD by 5pm on 10 August 2012. 
If no election is made, the dividend will be paid in GBP, the default currency for the dividend, with the GBP amount payable calculated by 
reference to the GBP:USD exchange rate prevailing at the record date. If you hold your ordinary shares in certificated form, you may only 
elect to receive your dividend in US Dollars by signing and returning a currency election form, available from Capita Registrars, Corporate 
Actions, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. If you hold your ordinary shares in uncertificated form, to elect to 
receive your dividend in US Dollars you must input a valid Dividend Election Input Message, in accordance with the CREST procedures 
described in the CREST manual. Partial elections will not be permitted.  
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
68 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report 
continued 
 
Financing and financial risk  
On 31 May 2011 the Company refinanced its borrowing facilities by signing and entering into a new four year $75m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility agreement with Lloyds, HSBC and Clydesdale banks. This new facility, which replaces the former revolving credit facility, 
provides greater financial flexibility and improved pricing and terms. Further details of this new financing facility are given in Note 19 to 
the accounts. 
The Company remained focused on effective financial risk management and made significant progress in the year in extending its 
commodity hedging programme to protect the Company’s margins and profits from the impact of commodity (particularly copper) 
price volatility. 
The Company’s financial risk management objectives and exposure of the Company to customer concentration, commodity price 
fluctuations, foreign exchange rates, pricing, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks is set out in Note 33 to the accounts and in the Managing 
Group risk section on pages 40 to 44. 
Research and development  
The Company’s research and development activities are focused on driving innovation throughout its product portfolio, to enable it to deliver 
new or enhanced customer-specific connection solutions. For example, we have developed prototype cable assemblies and connectors for 
a specific type of high-speed copper solution. We have continued to recruit design and development expertise to drive these activities and to 
build a forward-looking industry expertise that enables us to engage effectively in industry standards bodies and positions the Company well 
with customers for next-generation interconnect products and technologies.  
Continuous improvement  
The Group has continued to embed a range of management tools to promote a culture of continuous improvement across all our functions. 
In our manufacturing operations further LEAN management techniques have been incorporated to provide additional production efficiencies, 
while improved engagement with customers and suppliers has delivered benefits in our sales and supply chain functions. 
Furthermore the Company has recognised the critical importance of corporate culture to underpin the continuing transformation of Volex. 
The Company is pursuing and already has made a significant investment in a culture transformation programme being implemented 
throughout the Group. In addition to helping Volex transform itself into a customer-focused and innovation driven organisation, this culture 
programme is intended to provide a more rewarding work environment for our employees. 
Share capital 
As at 1 April 2012, the Company’s total issued share capital comprised 62,493,578 Ordinary shares of 25p each.  
Included in the 62,493,578 Ordinary shares of 25p are 5,871,815 (FY2011: 5,672,015) Ordinary shares held by the Volex Employee Share Trust 
as Treasury shares to satisfy the potential future vesting of long-term incentive awards held by certain Directors and key management. 
During the year 570,000 (FY2011: nil) treasury shares were utilised by the Volex Employee Share Trust to satisfy the vesting of such awards 
and market purchases of a further 769,800 shares (FY2011: nil) were made, at a cash cost of $3.3m, to support the Company’s ability to 
provide appropriate long-term incentive arrangements to certain Directors and key employees within the Group. Further details of the 
employee share schemes can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 58 to 60. 
The Ordinary shares carry no right to a fixed income and each Ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the 
Company. Details of the Company’s share capital can be found in Note 24 to the accounts. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special rights or control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
The Directors have the authority (on the terms set out in the Notice to the FY2011 Annual General Meeting): (i) to allot shares representing 
two-thirds of the issued share capital of the Company and (ii) to disapply statutory pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares representing 
not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company. These authorities are renewed annually at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Company also has authority, renewed annually, to purchase not more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company. Any shares 
purchased will either be cancelled, and the number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held in Treasury. The Directors will 
be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary shares at the 2012 AGM. 
   Governance
69 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Cautionary statement 
The purpose of the Annual Report is for the Company to provide information to its members. The Annual Report contains certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group. By their nature these 
statements involve uncertainty, since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated. 
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Summary review of operations 
 
2012 
$’000
2011
 $’000
Normalised operating profit (before non-recurring items and share-based payments) 32,004 26,075
Non-recurring Items (4,990) –
Share-based payments charge (3,976) (2,602)
Operating profit 23,038 23,473
Finance income 73 222
Financing costs (3,900) (3,383)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 19,211 20,312
Taxation (2,029) (3,660)
Profit for the period, being the retained profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent 17,182 16,652
Net assets employed by the Group were: 
 
2012 
$’000
2011 
$’000
Non-current assets 31,645 20,173
Other assets and liabilities 16,024 25,561
 47,669 45,734
Net cash / (debt) 3,643 (7,448)
Net assets 51,312 38,286
Gearing
1
 – 19%
1. Net debt divided by net assets. 
Directors and their interests 
(a) Directors 
The Directors who served during the year were as follows: 
Richard Arkle, Non-Executive Director 
Chris Geoghegan, Senior Independent Director 
Mike McTighe, Chairman 
Paul Mountford, Non-Executive Director  
Karen Slatford, Non-Executive Director  
Ray Walsh, Chief Executive Officer 
Andrew Cherry, Group Finance Director 
On 2 May 2012, Paul Mountford resigned from his role as a Director. On the same date David McKinney was appointed to the Executive 
Director position of Chief Operating Officer. There have been no other changes to the Board since the end of the financial year. Biographical 
details of the current Directors can be found on pages 48 to 49. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
70 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report 
continued 
 
(b) Election of Directors 
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company, Ray Walsh and Andrew Cherry will retire at the 2012 
AGM and being eligible, offer themselves for election by the shareholders. In addition, David McKinney, who was appointed a Director 
on 2 May 2012, offers himself for election by the shareholders. 
It is the Company’s policy that service contracts for each Executive Director continue for an indefinite term until such date as agreed between 
the Director and the Company or terminated earlier by either party. 
(c) Directors’ interests and remuneration 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration and their interests in the share capital of the Company are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 65. 
(d) Third-party indemnities 
The Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to the Directors, which remain in force, copies of which will be available for 
inspection at the forthcoming AGM. In addition, the Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to directors of the Company’s 
associated companies, which remain in force. 
Substantial shareholdings 
Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, issued by the Financial Services Authority, the major shareholders of the Company are 
as follows: 
Number of  
Ordinary shares 
Percentage
held
1
NR Investments Ltd 14,855,000 23.77
GoldenPeaks Active Value Master Fund  11,553,407 18.49
Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust 4,866,815 7.79
M&G Investment Management 2,464,370 3.94
Neue Helvetische Bank, Zurich 2,457,528 3.93
Legal & General Investment Management 2,071,882 3.32
1.  Percentage calculated on the total number of Ordinary and preference shares outstanding at the date of this report, which was 62,493,578. 
Restrictions on voting rights  
Volex’s Articles of Association provide that voting on resolutions at a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is 
demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by those members entitled under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to demand a poll. 
Subject to the following paragraph, on a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy, shall have one vote and, on a 
poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy, shall have one vote for every share in the capital of Volex.  
Appointment and replacement of Directors  
The Directors may appoint any person to be a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director provided the total number of 
Directors does not at any time exceed 15. In addition, provided the procedural requirements prescribed in Volex’s Articles of Association are 
followed, Volex may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a Director of Volex either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. 
At each AGM, all Directors who (i) were appointed by the Board since the last AGM, (ii) were elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM 
held in the second calendar year before the current year or (iii) have held office (other than employment or executive office) for a continuous 
period of nine years or more, shall automatically retire. 
At the meeting at which a Director retires, the members may pass an ordinary resolution to fill the office being vacated by electing the 
retiring Director or some other person eligible for appointment to that office. In default, the retiring Director shall be deemed to be elected or 
re-elected (as the case may be) unless (i) it is expressly resolved at the meeting not to fill the vacated office or the resolution for such election 
or re-election is put to the meeting and lost, or (ii) such Director has given notice that he is unwilling to be elected or re-elected, or (iii) the 
procedural requirements prescribed in Volex’s Articles of Association are contravened. 
As set out in the Articles of Association there are circumstances where a Director will immediately cease to hold office. These circumstances 
include where he or she is prohibited by law from being or acting as a Director, where a Director has been made bankrupt or is where he 
or she is unable to perform their duties through long-term ill health.  
   Governance
71 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Charitable and political contributions 
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations, accordingly there were no political donations made during the year. 
A charitable donation of £100 was made during the year to the Parkinson’s Disease Society of the United Kingdom. 
Amending Volex’s Articles of Association  
Companies Act 2006 requires that any alteration to Volex’s Articles of Association must be approved by a special resolution of 
the shareholders. 
Directors’ powers 
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Volex subject to any restrictions in Volex’s Articles of Association, the Companies 
Act 2006 and any special resolution. 
Under Volex’s Articles of Association, a Director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person connected with 
the Director, has an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of Volex other than by virtue of the Director’s (or their connected 
persons) interest in Volex’s shares or other securities. However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions (i) giving the Director 
any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of money lent or obligations incurred by him or any other person at the request of or for the 
benefit of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings, (ii) giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third-party in respect of a debt or 
obligation of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings for which the Director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee 
or by the giving of security, (iii) granting the Director an indemnity or provision of funding in relation to liabilities incurred by him in the 
execution and discharge of his duties, powers or office as a Director of any member of the Group, (iv) relating to an offer for subscription 
or purchase of securities of Volex or any of its subsidiary undertakings in which the Director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder 
of securities or as a underwriter or sub-underwriter, (v) concerning any other company in which the Director (together with any connected 
person) is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the Director (together with any connected person) is not 
interested in 1% or more of any class of equity share capital of such company or the voting rights available to the shareholders of such 
company, (vi) relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees, or (vii) 
relating to any insurance that Volex purchases or maintains for the benefit of its directors or persons including its Directors. The Board 
considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective. 
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Volex to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount 
of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the aggregate of the 
Group’s share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the Volex Articles of Association unless sanctioned by an ordinary 
resolution of Volex’s shareholders. 
Volex can make market purchases of its own shares provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and subject to and 
in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Significant agreements 
The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility in which the counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the agreement where 
there has been a change of control of the Company.  
The service agreement of Ray Walsh includes provisions for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of control, 
although that provision has now expired. This provision is not included in the service agreements of Andrew Cherry and David McKinney. 
Further details of the Directors’ service contracts can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on page 61.  
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
72 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report 
continued 
 
Supplier payment policy 
The Group’s policy is to pay suppliers on settlement terms agreed with each supplier. The total amount of Group trade payables falling due 
within one year at 1 April 2012 represents 90 days’ worth (2011: 90), as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year 
ended on that date. 
Audit and auditors 
In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee as disclosed on page 54 and Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, 
a resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company’s Articles of Association contain a qualifying third-party indemnity provision (as per the Companies Act 2006) that provides 
that the Company may pay for Directors’ indemnities out of its own assets. The Company has procured Directors’ and Officers’ insurance 
for this purpose. 
AGM 
The 2012 AGM of the Company will be held on 26 July 2012. In accordance with the Notice of Meeting, this is included at the end of this 
Annual Report. 
The meeting will consider items to be passed as ordinary or special resolutions. Each resolution will be proposed as a separate resolution. 
By order of the Board. 
Matt Nydell 
Company Secretary 
29 May 2012 
   Governance
73 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Independent auditors’ report 
To the members of Volex plc 
We have audited the financial statements of Volex plc for the 52 week period ended 1 April 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Financial Position, the 
Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows and the related 
notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion:  
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 1 April 2012 and 
of the Group’s profit and Group’s and parent Company’s cash flows for the 52 week period then ended; 
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
– the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006  
In our opinion:  
– the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
– the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
– the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 50-55 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance
74 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Independent auditors’ report 
continued 
To the members of Volex plc 
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or  
– the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or  
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
– the Directors’ statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going concern; 
– the parts of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and 
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
Nigel Reynolds  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
29 May 2012  Financial statements
75 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Consolidated income statement 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
 
 Notes
Group 
2012 2011 (restated)
Before 
non-recurring 
items and 
share based 
payments
$’000
Non-recurring
Items and
share based 
payments
$’000
Total
$’000
Before 
non-recurring  
items and 
share based  
payments 
$’000 
Non-recurring 
Items and
share based 
payments
$’000
Total
$’000
Revenue 3 517,769 – 517,769 490,009 – 490,009
Cost of sales (415,250) (4,990) (420,240) (397,940) – (397,940)
Gross profit 102,519 (4,990) 97,529 92,069 – 92,069
Operating expenses (70,515) (3,976) (74,491) (65,994) (2,602) (68,596)
Operating profit/(loss) 32,004 (8,966) 23,038 26,075 (2,602) 23,473
Finance income 5 73 – 73 222 – 222
Finance costs 6 (3,900) – (3,900) (3,383) – (3,383)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 28,177 (8,966) 19,211 22,914 (2,602) 20,312
Taxation 10 (3,445) 1,416 (2,029) (3,787) 127 (3,660)
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to the owners 
of the parent 7 24,732 (7,550) 17,182 19,127 (2,475) 16,652
Earnings per share (cents)  
Basic  12 43.7 30.4 33.7 29.3
Diluted 12 42.4 29.4 32.4 28.2
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
76 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
Notes 
Group 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000 
Profit for the period  17,182 16,652
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Gain/(loss) on hedge of net investment taken to equity  (479) 827
Cash flow hedges:  
Gain/(loss) arising during the period  1,295 –
Exchange gain/(loss) on translation of foreign operations  (886) (1,843)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes 32 (1,828) 1,500
Other comprehensive gain/(loss)  (1,898) 484
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  – –
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the period  (1,898) 484
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to the owners of the parent  15,284 17,136
  Financial statements
77 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Consolidated and Company statement  
of financial position 
As at 1 April 2012 (3 April 2011, 4 April 2010) 
 
Notes
Group  Company 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 13 3,085 3,109 2,928  - – –
Other intangible assets 14 2,897 2,120 998  1,955 1,795 542
Property, plant and equipment 15 20,022 12,465 11,378  426 209 291
Investments 16 – – –  153,197 145,534 137,534
Other receivables 18 543 322 323  320 322 303
Deferred tax asset 22 5,098 2,157 407  2,024 741 –
 31,645 20,173 16,034  157,922 148,601 138,670
Current assets    
Inventories 17 49,790 51,889 41,718  3,062 4,004 5,836
Trade receivables 18 90,612 105,200 77,929  3,349 5,104 4,959
Other receivables 18 15,092 12,927 13,306  57,061 38,318 77,524
Current tax assets 703 722 584  – – –
Derivative financial instruments 33 1,453 – –  1,453 – –
Cash and bank balances 29 43,578 20,397 27,638  – 4,086 4,625
 201,228 191,135 161,175  64,925 51,512 92,944
Total assets 232,873 211,308 177,209  222,847 200,113 231,614
Current liabilities    
Borrowings 19 2,398 27,542 428  12,572 6,499 –
Obligations under finance leases 20 117 195 97  117 195 97
Trade payables 21 88,551 91,641 68,523  1,547 1,888 1,666
Other payables 21 34,574 35,513 25,447  44,779 50,763 103,475
Current tax liabilities 5,938 4,393 8,194  – – –
Retirement benefit obligation 32 596 251 235  596 251 235
Provisions 23 1,078 2,940 6,151  832 1,029 2,855
Derivative financial instruments 33 54 296 563  34 215 302
 133,306 162,771 109,638  60,477 60,840 108,630
Net current assets/(liabilities) 67,922 28,364 51,537  4,448 (9,328) (15,686)
Non-current liabilities    
Borrowings 19 37,420 – 38,463  22,757 – 20,195
Obligations under finance leases 20 – 108 135  – 108 135
Trade and other payables 21 706 – –  58,938 59,006 72,233
Deferred tax liabilities 22 2,563 2,309 99  – – –
Retirement benefit obligation 32 2,976 1,883 3,384  2,976 1,883 3,384
Provisions 23 4,590 5,744 6,165  4,540 4,896 4,806
Non-equity preference shares 25 – 207 121  – 207 121
 48,255 10,251 48,367  89,211 66,100 100,874
Total liabilities 181,561 173,022 158,005  149,688 126,940 209,504
Net assets 51,312 38,286 19,204  73,159 73,173 22,110
Equity attributable to owners of the parent    
Share capital 24 28,180 28,180 25,940  28,180 28,180 25,940
Share premium account 2,586 2,586 2,586  2,586 2,586 2,586
Hedging and translation reserve (4,252) (4,182) (3,166)  (8,263) (8,050) (9,059)
Own shares 27 (5,271) (2,240) –  – – –
Merger reserve – – –  15,540 15,540 15,540
Non-distributable special reserve 26 – – –  – – 33,136
Retained earnings/(losses) 30,069 13,942 (6,156)  35,116 34,917 (46,033)
Total equity 51,312 38,286 19,204  73,159 73,173 22,110
The financial statements on pages 75 to 122 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 May 2012. 
They were signed on its behalf by: 
Ray Walsh  Andrew Cherry 
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director 
Volex plc Company Number: 158956 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
78 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Consolidated and Company statement 
of changes in equity 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
 
Group 
Share 
capital 
$’000
Share 
premium 
account 
$’000
Hedging and 
translation 
reserve 
$’000
Own 
shares 
$’000
Merger 
reserve 
$’000
Non distributable 
special reserve 
 $’000 
Retained 
earnings/
(losses) 
$’000
Total equity
 $’000
Balance at 4 April 2010 (restated) 25,940 2,586 (3,166) – – – (6,156) 19,204
Profit for the period attributable  
to the owners of the parent – – – – – – 16,652 16,652
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (1,016) – – 1,500 484
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (1,016) – – – 18,152 17,136
Issue of share capital 2,240 – – – – – – 2,240
Own shares acquired in the period – – – (2,240) – – – (2,240)
Reserve entry for share option charge – – – – – – 1,946 1,946
Balance at 3 April 2011 (restated) 28,180 2,586 (4,182) (2,240) – – 13,942 38,286
Profit for the period attributable  
to the owners of the parent – – – – – – 17,182 17,182
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (70) – – – (1,828) (1,898)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (70) – – – 15,354 15.284
Dividends – – – – – – (2,712) (2,712)
Own shares acquired in the period – – – (3,031) – – – (3,031)
Reserve entry for share option charge – – – – – – 3,485 3,485
Balance at 1 April 2012 28,180 2,586 (4,252) (5,271) – – 30,069 51,312
 
Company 
Share 
capital
 $’000
Share 
premium 
account 
$’000
Hedging and 
translation 
reserve 
$’000
Own 
shares 
$’000
Merger 
reserve 
$’000
Non distributable 
special reserve 
 $’000 
Retained 
earnings/ 
(losses)
 $’000
Total equity 
$’000
Balance at 4 April 2010 (restated) 25,940 2,586 (9,059) – 15,540 33,136 (46,033) 22,110
Profit for the year attributable  
to the owners of the parent – – – – – – 44,368 44,368
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – 1,009 – – – 1,500 2,509
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – 1,009 – – – 45,868 46,877
Issue of share capital 2,240 – – – – – – 2,240
Release of special reserve – – – – – (33,136) 33,136 –
Reserve entry for share option charge – – – – – – 1,946 1,946
Balance at 3 April 2011 (restated) 28,180 2,586 (8,050) – 15,540 – 34,917 73,173
Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent – – – – – – 1,254 1,254
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (213) – – – (1,828) (2,041)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period – – (213) – – – (574) (787)
Dividends – – – – – – (2,712) (2,712)
Reserve entry for share option charge – – – – – – 3,485 3,485
Balance at 1 April 2012 28,180 2,586 (8,263) – 15,540 – 35,116 73,159
 
  Financial statements
79 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows  
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
Notes
Group 
 
Company 
2012 
 
$’000 
2011 
restated 
$’000 
2012
$’000
2011
restated
$’000
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  29 30,353 11,087  (19,014) 10,998
    
Cash flow generated from/(used in) investing activities     
Interest received 73 222  – 149
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment  79 101  – –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (10,263) (4,363)  (399) (18)
Purchases of intangible assets  (1,986) (1,200)  (738) (1,113)
Acquisition of own shares (net of funds received on option exercise) (3,031) –  – –
Net cash outflow arising on disposal of operations – (247)  – (247)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) on intercompany funding – –  (8,357) 4,491
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  (15,128) (5,487)  (9,494) 3,262
    
Cash flows before financing activities  15,225 5,600  (28,508) 14,260
Cash generated before non-recurring items 19,932 5,847  (28,508) 14,507
Net cash outflow arising on disposal of operations  29 – (247)  – (247)
Cash utilised in respect of non-recurring items (4,707) –  – –
    
Cash flow generated from/(used in) financing activities     
Dividends paid (2,712) –  (2,712) –
Repayment of borrowings  (26,377) (14,387)  (7,300) (14,387)
Repayment of preference shares (130) –  (130) –
Refinancing costs paid 28 (1,655) (24)  (1,655) (24)
New bank loans raised 28 39,544 –  24,000 –
Repayments of obligations under finance leases 28 (181) (144)  (181) (144)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities  8,489 (14,555)  12,022 (14,555)
    
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  23,714 (8,955)  (16,486) (295)
    
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  28 18,525 27,210  4,086 4,625
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  28 (1,059) 270  (172) (244)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  28 41,180 18,525  (12,572) 4,086
 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
80 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
 
1. Presentation of financial statements 
Volex plc (‘the Company’) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 
and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered office is given on the inside back cover. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Review on pages 18 to 46. 
Financial statements are prepared for the period ending on the Sunday following the Friday that falls closest to the accounting reference date 
of 31 March each year. 
Restatement 
Following the disposal of the Wiring Harness division in 2009 and sustained international growth, the cash flows and economic returns of the 
Company and entities over which it has control (its subsidiaries), (together the ‘Group’), are now principally denominated in US Dollars (‘USD’). 
From 4 April 2011, the Group changed its currency in which it presents its consolidated and parent Company financial statements from 
Pounds Sterling (‘GBP’) to USD. 
A change in presentation currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively. Statutory financial information 
included in the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 3 April 2011 and 4 April 2010 previously reported in GBP has 
been restated into USD using the procedures outlined below: 
– assets and liabilities denominated in non-USD currencies were translated into USD at period end closing rates of exchange;  
– share capital, share premium and own reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing at 5 April 2004 (i.e. the transition date 
to IFRS) or the subsequent dates of transactions;  
– non-USD trading results were translated into USD at average rates of exchange;  
– the cumulative hedging and translation reserve was set to nil at 5 April 2004 (i.e. the transition date to IFRS). All subsequent foreign 
exchange translation movements comprising differences on the retranslation of the opening net assets of non-USD subsidiaries and the 
retranslation of the trading results of non-USD subsidiaries have been charged to the hedging and translation reserve; and 
– exchange differences recognised directly in the hedging and translation reserve arising from foreign exchange hedging instruments 
or monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur were 
translated into USD at average rates of exchange. 
All exchange rates used were extracted from the Group’s underlying financial records. The exchange rates used were as follows:  
USD/GBP exchange rate FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009
Closing Rate 1.5983 1.6111 1.5169 1.4738
Average Rate 1.5978 1.5510 1.5958 1.6924
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the parent company income 
statement. The profit for the parent company for the year was $1,254,000 (2011: $44,368,000). 
2. Significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of the financial instruments. 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (‘IFRSs as adopted by the EU’), International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) Interpretations and the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
   Financial statements
81 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period. Their adoption has not had 
any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions 
and arrangements.  
– IAS 32 (amendment) Financial Instruments Presentation – Classification of rights issues 
– IAS 24 (amendment) ‘Related party disclosures’ 
– IFRIC 14 (amendment) ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ 
– IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued amendments to a number of IFRSs in May 2010 as part of its annual 
improvement project. These amendments were applicable for the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 but did not result in any changes to the 
financial statements of the Group or Company. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Directors do not expect 
that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
– IAS 12 (amendment) ‘Income Taxes’ – effective for year end 31 March 2013 
– IAS 1 (amendment) ‘Financial Statement Presentation’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IAS 27 (amendment) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IAS 28 (amendment) ‘Associates and Joint Ventures’ effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Group is currently 
reviewing these standards to determine the likely impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. 
– IFRS 7 (amendment) ‘Financial Instruments’ – effective for year end 31 March 2013 
– IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee Benefits’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
– IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ – effective for year ended 30 March 2014 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of Volex plc incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities which it controls (its 
subsidiaries), (together the ‘Group’), and are drawn up to the relevant period end date. Control is achieved where the Company has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to be able to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The consideration for each acquisition 
is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement 
as incurred. 
Where the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, it is 
measured at its acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they 
qualify as measurement period adjustments. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an 
asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity 
are not recognised. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
82 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. If the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. 
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in the 
Business Review on pages 18 to 46. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Finance Review on pages 34 to 39. In addition Note 33 to the financial statements includes the Group objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. 
As highlighted in Note 19 to the financial statements, the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through a $75 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) with a syndicate of three banks. The principal terms of this financing facility are given in Note 19. 
The Group’s forecast and projections, taking reasonable account of possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should 
be able to operate within the level of the contracted and committed facility for the foreseeable future. The Group has access to additional 
undrawn committed facilities together with long established contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic 
areas and industries. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite 
the ongoing uncertain economic outlook. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Reports and financial statements. 
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. 
The excess of fair value over the nominal value of shares issued in consideration for investments in which ownership exceeds 90% 
is recorded in the Company’s merger reserve. 
Foreign currency translation 
The individual financial statements of each Group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in USD, which is the currency in which the majority of our business is performed. 
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for: 
– Exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/hedge 
accounting); and 
– Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor 
likely to occur and which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve 
and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. The principal balances on which these exchange differences arise are 
treated as quasi-equity. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the 
period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are 
used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.  Financial statements
83 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from third parties for goods and services provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
– significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer determined with reference to the specific contract in place; 
– the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; 
– it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group; and 
– the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. 
Revenue from the provision of engineering services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contracted services. 
Interest income is accrued on a timely basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment has been established. 
Taxation 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 
in reserves. 
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on 
a net basis. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
84 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses represent an excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired at the date of acquisition and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-
generating units. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from 
the business combination in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the 
other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. The impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in profit and loss and is not reversed in subsequent periods. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts. Goodwill arising 
on acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been written off to reserves and has not been reinstated in the balance sheet and will not be 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and any further costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, as follows:  
Long leasehold buildings up to 50 years or period of lease, if shorter 
Plant and machinery up to 15 years 
Freehold land is not depreciated. 
A gain or loss on disposal is determined by comparing the proceeds with the asset’s carrying amount and is recognised in the 
income statement. 
Intangible assets – computer software and licences 
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Acquired computer software 
licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and use the specific software. These costs are included in the balance 
sheet within intangible assets and are amortised straight-line over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding five years. 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Intangible assets – internally generated intangible assets – research and development expenditure 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
The Group is engaged in development activities which include both general product development and specific customer development 
projects. An internally generated intangible asset arising from these development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions 
are met: 
– an asset is created that can be identified; 
– it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and 
– the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Where the above conditions are not met, 
development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
   Financial statements
85 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the 
relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation increase. 
Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
The Group as lessee 
Assets held under finance leases and similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are 
capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their economic useful life. Assets 
are recognised at their fair value or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the 
lease. The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income 
statement over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of the capital repayments outstanding. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are recognised 
as a liability and are allocated on a straight-line basis as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term. 
The Group as lessor 
Rental income from operating leases, which have arisen from the sublet of vacant premises, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the relevant lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct materials, direct labour and an attributable proportion 
of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs 
expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is 
impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, 
and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within operating expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is 
written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against 
operating expenses in the income statement.  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
86 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value less bank overdrafts. 
Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including 
premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the consolidated income statement 
using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the 
period in which they arise. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are not 
recognised for future operating losses. 
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised as property provisions and measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense. 
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations 
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. 
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for restructuring and has raised a valid 
expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those 
affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are 
those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with ongoing activities of the entity. 
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sales of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the 
relevant products, at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligations. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the former of which is now closed to new entrants. 
For defined benefit schemes, the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets. The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income in full in the period in which they occur. As the defined benefit schemes are now closed, no service cost is incurred. 
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the income statement in the period is the amount of contributions payable 
in the period. The difference between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown either in accruals 
or prepayments in the balance sheet. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently 
administered fund. 
   Financial statements
87 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments 
Equity-settled share-based payments are issued to certain employees and are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the 
date of grant. The fair value excludes the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the determination of the fair value 
of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 31. 
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet 
date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based 
vesting conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. 
The fair value of cash-settled share-based payments is remeasured at each balance sheet date with a corresponding liability recognised 
on the balance sheet. The movement in this liability is recorded in the income statement. 
The requirements of IFRS 2 have been applied, in accordance with the transitional provisions, to all grants of equity instruments made after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as at 1 January 2005. 
Non-recurring items 
Costs that are one-off in nature and significant, such as restructuring costs, are deemed to be non-recurring by virtue of their nature and size. 
They are included under the statutory classification appropriate to their nature but are separately disclosed on the face of the income 
statement to assist in understanding the financial performance of the Group and the Company. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. Non-equity share capital, which includes preference shares, is classified within non-current liabilities. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
Financial assets 
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are initially measured 
at fair value, plus transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss which are initially measured 
at fair value. 
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’, ‘held-to-maturity’ 
investments, ‘available-for-sale’ financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. 
Effective interest method 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating interest income 
or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through 
the expected life of the financial asset/liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. 
Financial assets at ‘fair value through profit or loss’ (‘FVTPL’) 
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. Financial assets at 
FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised 
in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset. 
Held-to-maturity investments 
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the 
Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment. 
Available-for-sale financial assets (‘AFS’) 
AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as AFS or are not classified as (a) loans and receivables, (b) held-to-
maturity investments or (c) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
88 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Changes in the carrying amount of AFS monetary financial assets relating to changes in foreign currency rates, interest income calculated 
using the effective interest method and dividends on AFS equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Other changes in the carrying 
amount of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of 
investments revaluation reserve. Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously 
accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. 
Loans and receivables 
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market 
are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method 
less impairment. 
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective 
evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows 
of the investment have been impacted. For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it 
is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance 
account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expires, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received. 
Debt and equity instruments 
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangement. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ or other financial liabilities. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value and subsequently stated at fair value, with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the 
financial liability. 
Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. The Group 
enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks. The use of financial derivatives is governed by 
a Group policy approved by the Board of Directors which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives to hedge certain risk 
exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Further details of derivative financial 
instruments are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements. 
   Financial statements
89 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their 
fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated 
and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event, the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge 
relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in 
foreign operations. 
A derivative is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months 
and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities. 
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk as either 
cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted 
for as cash flow hedges. 
Similarly commodity derivative contracts which are entered into to mitigate commodity price fluctuations on firm purchasing commitments 
are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along 
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge 
and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the hedging and translation reserve; 
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Gains and losses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve are recognised immediately in profit or loss when the foreign operation 
is disposed of. 
Critical judgements and estimates in applying the accounting policies 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. Management has made the following 
judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. 
Property provisions 
As at 1 April 2012, the Group had property provisions of $5,371,000 (2011: $8,220,000, 2010: $10,321,000) relating to onerous lease obligations 
arising from vacated leased premises and dilapidations. The provisions have been recorded taking into account management’s best 
estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease over the remaining lease term and the level of sub-lease 
rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants. The net cost of the leases is then discounted using a 2.5% pre-tax risk free 
discount rate (2011: 3.82%). The provisions are regularly reviewed in light of the most current information available. 
Pension benefits 
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number 
of assumptions including the appropriate discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of the pension 
obligations. The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to 
determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining 
the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Other key 
assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in Note 32 to the 
financial statements. 
Taxation 
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures. Amounts 
provided are based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax law. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions are 
capable of being sustained. In arriving at this position, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should 
be taken against full recognition of the benefit. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
90 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
2. Significant accounting policies continued 
Deferred tax 
The Group operates in a large number of different tax jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in 
determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax 
assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income, time limits on the availability of 
taxable losses for carry forward and any future tax planning strategies 
Inventory provisions 
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which is calculated as the estimated sales proceeds less costs of sale. 
Factors considered in the determination of net realisable value are the ageing, category and condition of inventories, recent inventory 
utilisation and forecasts of projected inventory utilisation. Reviews of provisions held against damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventory 
are carried out at least quarterly by management and these reviews require the application of judgement and estimates. Changes to these 
estimates could result in changes to the net valuation of inventory. 
3. Segment Information 
The internal reporting provided to the Group’s Board for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of Group performance is based 
upon the end markets the Group’s products are supplied into. The four reportable segments are: 
Consumer The Consumer sector supplies interconnect solutions and power products to manufacturers of electrical/electronic devices and appliances 
(including laptop/desktop computers, printers, televisions, power tools and floor cleaning equipment).  
Telecoms/Datacoms The Telecoms/Datacoms sector supplies customised interconnect solutions to manufacturers of equipment servicing the telecoms network, 
high-performance computing and data-centre markets. 
Healthcare The Healthcare sector serves key accounts in the medical equipment field, supplying complex cable assembly and connector solutions for 
a broad range of medical equipment. 
Industrial The Industrial sector supplies cable assemblies to a diverse set of industrial markets, including test and measurement equipment, 
manufacturing/automation, refrigeration, vehicle telematics and renewable energy. 
The Board believes that this segmentation of the customer base best aligns the Group with its customers and markets and allows it to best 
leverage the global customer relationships in order to maximise opportunities for cross selling. 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reportable segment: 
Revenue 
2012 
 
$’000  
2011
(restated)
$’000
Consumer  330,372 304,336
Telecoms/Datacoms  99,440 109,948
Healthcare  51,663 41,536
Industrial  36,294 34,189
 517,769 490,009
   Financial statements
91 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3. Segment Information continued 
Gross profit 
Before 
non-recurring items
$’000
Non-recurring items 
$’000 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Consumer  59,113 (4,990) 54,123 53,609
Telecoms/Datacoms  21,034 – 21,034 20,653
Healthcare  14,186 – 14,186 9,735
Industrial  8,186 – 8,186 8,072
 102,519 (4,990) 97,529 92,069
Unallocated operating expenses (excluding share-based payments)  (70,515) (65,994)
Operating profit before share-based payments   27,014 26,075
Share-based payments   (3,976) (2,602)
Operating profit   23,038 23,473
Finance income   73 222
Finance costs   (3,900) (3,383)
Profit before tax   19,211 20,312
Taxation   (2,029) (3,660)
Profit after tax   17,182 16,652
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. 
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment before the allocation of operating expenses, share based payments expense, 
finance income, finance costs and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to the Group’s Board for the purpose of resource 
allocation and assessment of performance. 
The segment profits above are shown after the following charges for depreciation and amortisation: 
Depreciation and amortisation 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Consumer  1,222 1,741
Telecoms/Datacoms  448 598
Healthcare  187 147
Industrial  274 132
 2,131 2,618
Depreciation and amortisation included in unallocated overhead costs 1,472 813
Total depreciation and amortisation charge for the year 3,603 3,431
Asset and liability information is not provided to the Board on a segmental basis. In order to maximise the efficiency of asset utilisation, the 
Group’s assets are employed cross-segment and the Board believes that there is no meaningful basis in which such assets and liabilities 
can be allocated. 
Information about major customers 
Two (2011: three) of the Group’s customers individually account for more than 10% of total Group revenue, with the Group’s largest customer, 
operating in the Consumer sector, accounting for 19% (2011: 12%) of total Group revenue. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
92 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
3. Segment Information continued 
Geographical information 
The Group’s revenue from external customers and information about its non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) by geographical 
location are provided below: 
 Revenue Non-Current Assets 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000 
2010
(restated)
$’000
Asia (excluding India) 299,205 256,559 18,594 10,590 9,029
North America 100,446 105,848 742 662 965
Europe (excluding UK) 89,723 93,978 420 243 320
India 11,371 19,556 574 719 863
South America 17,024 14,068 430 368 388
UK – – 5,787 5,434 4,062
 517,769 490,009 26,547 18,016 15,627
Revenue is attributed to countries on the basis of the geographical location of the Group entity recording the sale. 
4. Non-recurring items 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
$’000
New product start-up costs 4,990 –
Exceptional start-up costs of $4,990,000 (2011: $nil) were incurred in relation to new product introductions; specifically the migration from PVC 
to halogen-free power cords. These new products necessitated wide ranging improvements to our manufacturing processes and 
investments in higher grade tooling and precision moulding technologies. The exceptional costs include the materials scrap costs and labour 
inefficiencies associated with the new product lines. 
5. Finance income 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Interest on bank deposits 73 72
Other interest – 150
 73 222
Finance income earned on financial assets was derived from loans and receivables (including cash and bank balances) only. No other gains 
or losses have been recognised in respect of loans and receivables other than those disclosed above and impairment losses recognised in 
respect of trade receivables (see Note 18). 
   Financial statements
93 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
6. Finance costs 
  Group 
 Notes 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans  1,839 2,259
Interest on obligations under finance leases  10 24
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 32 1,109 1,105
Return on pension assets 32 (1,135) (1,062)
Fair value (gain)/loss on interest rate swap contracts 33 (214) (285)
Unwinding of discount on long-term provisions 23 216 376
Loss on ineffective cash flow hedges  842 –
Other  – 188
Total interest costs  2,667 2,605
Amortisation of debt issue costs 28 1,233 778
Total finance costs  3,900 3,383
No gains or losses have been recognised on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (including bank overdrafts and loans) other than 
those disclosed above. 
7. Profit for the year 
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Net foreign exchange losses 1,936 1,298
Research and development costs 4,579 3,843
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,448 3,041
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1,155 390
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 331,215 316,137
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense 1,080 1,136
Staff costs (see Note 9) 90,895 80,862
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 317 220
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 48 23
Operating lease payments (see note 30) 6,009 7,225
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
94 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
7. Profit for the year continued 
Research and development costs disclosed on the previous page comprise the following: 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Employment costs 3,268 2,742
Raw materials and consultancy 916 413
Other  395 688
 4,579 3,843
Reconciliation of operating profit to normalised EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, non-recurring items and 
share-based payment charge): 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Operating profit 23,038 23,473
Add back: 
Non-recurring items 4,990 –
Share-based payment charge 3,976 2,602
Normalised operating profit 32,004 26,075
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,448 3,041
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1,155 390
Normalised EBITDA 35,607 29,506
8. Auditors’ remuneration 
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows: 
 Group 
 2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 301 279
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other audit services to the Group  
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 
– the audit of the Group’s Restatement of Historical Financial Information to USD 
369
40
341
Total audit fees 710 620
Other services pursuant to legislation 
Tax services 15 37
Other services 19 13
Total non-audit fees 34 50
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50 and includes an explanation 
of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when the auditors provide non-audit services. 
  
– Financial statements
95 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
9. Staff costs 
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: 
 Group 
 
2012
No.
2011
No.
Production 7,095 7,093
Sales and distribution 616 631
Administration 690 652
 8,401 8,376
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Wages and salaries 76,231 70,487
Social security costs 9,487 5,273
Share-based payment charge/(credit) (see Note 31) 3,976 2,602
Other pension costs (see Note 32) 1,201 2,500
 90,895 80,862
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and interests for 
the year required by the Companies Act 2006 are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 65 and 
form part of the financial statements. 
10. Taxation 
 Group 
 2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Current tax – charge for the period 4,409 5,746
Current tax – adjustment in respect of previous periods 303 (2,493)
Total current tax 4,712 3,253
Deferred tax (Note 22) (2,683) 407
Income tax expense 2,029 3,660
UK corporation tax is calculated at 26% (2011: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
The charge/(credit) for the period can be reconciled to the profit/(loss) per the income statement as follows: 
 
2012 
 
$’000 
2012 
 
% 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2011
%
Profit/(loss) before tax 19,211 100 20,312 100
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26% (2010: 28%) 4,995 26 5,687 28
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible and income that 
is not taxable in determining taxable profit 
3,116 16 2,289 11
Tax effect of non-utilisation of tax losses 959 5 1,829 9
Tax effect of adjustments in respect of previous periods 303 2 (2,493) (12)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (1,732) (9) (1,219) (6)
Tax effect of recognised deferred tax (2,683) (14) 407 2
Tax effect of loss utilisation (2,929) (15) (2,840) (14)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 2,029 11 3,660 18
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
96 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
11. Dividends 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 
Final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 3 April 2011 of 2.0 pence per share (2010: £nil) 1,850 –
Interim dividend for the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 of 1.5 cents per share (2011: $nil) 862 –
 2,712 –
Proposed final dividend for the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 of 3.0 cents per share (2011: 2.0 pence) 1,699 1,830
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. 
12. Earnings per Ordinary share 
The calculations of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 
  Group 
 
Notes 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Profit for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share 
being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
17,182 16,652
Adjustments for:  
Non-recurring items 4 4,990 –
Share-based payments charge 31 3,976 2,602
Tax effect of above adjustment  (1,416) (127)
Normalised earnings  24,732 19,127
 
 No. shares No. shares
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 56,582,380 56,821,563
Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary shares – share options 1,777,754 2,141,432
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 58,360,134 58,962,995
 
Basic earnings per share 
2012
Cents
2011
(restated)
Cents
Basic earnings per share 30.4 29.3
Adjustments for: 
Non-recurring items 8.8 –
Share-based payments charge 7.0 4.6
Tax effect of above adjustments (2.5) (0.2)
Normalised basic earnings per share 43.7 33.7
 
Diluted earnings per share 
2012
Cents
2011
(restated)
Cents
Diluted earnings per share 29.4 28.2
Adjustments for: 
Non-recurring items 8.6 –
Share-based payments charge 6.8 4.4
Tax effect of above adjustments (2.4) (0.2)
Normalised diluted earnings per share 42.4 32.4 Financial statements
97 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
12. Earnings per Ordinary share continued 
The normalised earnings per share has been calculated on the basis of profit before non-recurring items and share-based payments, net 
of tax. The Directors consider that this earnings per share calculation gives a better understanding of the Group’s earnings per share in the 
current and prior period. 
13. Goodwill 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Cost 
At beginning of the period 6,119 5,761
Exchange differences (48) 358
At the end of the period 6,071 6,119
 
Accumulated impairment losses 
At beginning of the period 3,010 2,833
Exchange differences (24) 177
At the end of the period 2,986 3,010
 
Carrying amount at the end of the period 3,085 3,109
Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 3,109 2,928
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the business units that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination. After recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows: 
 2012 
 
$’000  
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Volex North America 2,291 2,309 2,174
Volex Europe 709 715 674
Volex India 85 85 80
 3,085 3,109 2,928
The Group annually tests goodwill for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, revenue and costs growth rates and the level of capital expenditure required during the period. 
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the business unit. The growth rates are based upon industry growth forecasts. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recently approved annual budget and 5 year plan for the relevant 
businesses. No growth is forecast for cash flows for years beyond 2017. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is a pre-tax discount rate of 10.47% (2011: 12.74%, 2010: 10%), which reflects the Group’s 
estimated cost of capital. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
98 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
14. Other intangible assets 
 Group  Company 
Software and licences 
2012
$’000
2011 
(restated) 
$’000 
 2012
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
Cost   
At beginning of year 3,035 1,549  2,107 693
Additions 1,986 1,399  738 1,319
Disposals (123) (34)  – –
Exchange differences (101) 121  (26) 95
At end of the year 4,797 3,035  2,819 2,107
Accumulated amortisation   
At beginning of year 915 551  312 151
Amortisation charge for the period 1,155 390  552 146
Disposals (123) (34)  – –
Exchange differences (47) 8  – 15
At end of the year 1,900 915  864 312
Carrying amount at end of year 2,897 2,120  1,955 1,795
Carrying amount at start of year 2,120 998  1,795 542
Computer software is amortised over the estimated useful life, not exceeding five years. The amortisation charge for the period is fully 
expensed within operating expenses. 
The carrying amount of the Group’s and Company’s software and licences includes an amount of $130,000 (2011: $199,000, 2010: $nil) 
in respect of assets held under finance leases.  Financial statements
99 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
15. Property, plant and equipment 
Group  
Long 
leasehold 
buildings 
$’000  
Plant and
machinery
$’000 
Total
$’000
Cost    
At 4 April 2010 (restated)  3,909  39,301 43,210
Additions  196  4,167 4,363
Disposals  (13)  (1,012) (1,025)
Exchange differences  5  266 271
At 3 April 2011 (restated)  4,097  42,722 46,819
Additions  589  9,674 10,263
Disposals  (76)  (6,195) (6,271)
Exchange differences  (61)  (938) (999)
At 1 April 2012  4,549  45,263 49,812
Accumulated depreciation and impairment    
At 4 April 2010 (restated)  2,809  29,023 31,832
Depreciation charge for the period  160  2,881 3,041
Disposals  (8)  (893) (901)
Exchange differences  34  348 382
At 3 April 2011 (restated)  2,995  31,359 34,354
Depreciation charge for the period  151  2,297 2,448
Disposals  (76)  (6,068) (6,144)
Exchange differences  (23)  (845) (868)
At 1 April 2012  3,047  26,743 29,790
Carrying amount    
At 1 April 2012  1,502  18,520 20,022
At 3 April 2011  1,102  11,363 12,465
At 4 April 2010  1,100  10,278 11,378
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and machinery includes an amount of $88,000 (2011: $171,000, 2010: $232,000) in respect of assets 
held under finance leases. At 1 April 2012, the Group had no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
(2011: $nil, 2010: $nil). 
Of the $2,448,000 (2011: $3,041,000) depreciation charge for the period, $2,131,000 (2011: $2,618,000) was expensed through cost of sales 
and $317,000 (2011: $423,000) was expensed through operating expenses. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
100 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
15. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Company 
Plant and
Machinery
$’000
Cost 
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 1,153
Additions  18
Exchange differences  21
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 1,192
Additions  399
Disposals (789)
Exchange differences  (31)
At 1 April 2012  771
Accumulated depreciation and impairment 
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 862
Depreciation charge for the period  113
Exchange differences  8
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 983
Depreciation charge for the period  174
Disposals (789)
Exchange differences  (23)
At 1 April 2012 345
Carrying amount 
At 1 April 2012 426
At 3 April 2011 209
At 4 April 2010 291
The carrying amount of the Company’s plant and machinery includes an amount of $88,000 (2011: $171,000, 2010: $232,000) in respect of 
assets held under finance leases. At 1 April 2012, the Company had no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and 
equipment (2011: $nil, 2010: $nil).  Financial statements
101 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
16. Investments 
The Company’s fixed asset investments comprise investments in wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings and permanent loans as follows: 
Company 
Shares 
$’000 
Loans
$’000
Total
$’000
Cost  
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 51,906 98,624 150,530
Additions – 4,865 4,865
Exchange differences 3,223 (1,036) 2,187
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 55,129 102,453 157,582
Additions – 8,357 8,357
Exchange differences (441) (644) (1,085)
At 1 April 2012 54,688 110,166 164,854
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 5,525 7,471 12,996
Exchange differences 343 (1,291) (948)
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 5,868 6,180 12,048
Exchange differences (48) (343) (390)
At 1 April 2012 5,820 5,837 11,658
Carrying amount  
At 1 April 2012 48,868 104,329 153,197
At 3 April 2011 49,261 96,273 145,534
At 4 April 2010 46,381 91,153 137,534
In the United Kingdom, the Company includes an operational division, Volex Powercords Europe. Details of the Company’s principal 
subsidiary undertakings are set out on page 123. The investment in subsidiaries are all stated at cost. 
In the 52 weeks to 1 April 2012, the Company made a long term loan of $3,255,000 (2011: $1,880,000) to the Volex Group plc Employee Share 
Trust and $nil (2011: $404,000) to the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust. For further details on these loans see note 35. All loans are 
carried at amortised cost. 
17. Inventories 
 Group  Company 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Raw materials 19,343 23,917 17,749  693 – 9
Work-in-progress 153 1,284 1,668  – – –
Finished goods 30,294 26,688 22,301  2,369 4,004 5,827
 49,790 51,889 41,718  3,062 4,004 5,836
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
102 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
18. Trade and other receivables 
 Group Company 
Trade Receivables 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 91,866 106,292 78,867 3,364 5,288 5,059
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,254) (1,092) (938) (15) (184) (100)
 90,612 105,200 77,929 3,349 5,104 4,959
  
Other Receivables         
Amounts due from Group undertakings – – – 55,794 37,162 75,684
Other debtors 13,619 11,304 10,302 1,064 1,162 1,946
Prepayments 2,016 1,945 3,327 523 316 197
 15,635 13,249 13,629 57,381 38,640 77,827
  
Due for settlement within 12 months 15,092 12,927 13,306 57,061 38,318 77,524
Due for settlement after 12 months 543 322 323 320 322 303
 15,635 13,249 13,629 57,381 38,640 77,827
Trade receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Two of the Group’s customers (2011: three, 2010: two) individually account for more than 10% of total Group revenue, with the Group’s largest 
customer, operating in the Consumer sector, accounting for 19% (2011: 12%, 2010: 11%) of total Group revenue. Other than these customers 
the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. 
At 1 April 2012, the two customers represented 31% (2011: 26%) of the net trade receivables. 
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 65 days (2011: 73 days, 2010: 83 days). An allowance has been made for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and an analysis 
of the counterparty’s current financial position. 
Included in trade receivables are receivables with a carrying value of $11,122,000 (2011: $13,907,000, 2010: $11,393,000) and $600,000 
(2011: $1,190,000, 2010: $1,248,000) for the Group and Company respectively which are past due at the reporting date for which no provision 
has been made as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group 
and Company does not hold any collateral over these balances. 
 Group Company 
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
0–60 days 10,034 12,019 10,553 521 901 1,121
60–90 days 660 1,079 540 27 176 32
90–120 days 96 253 211 – 16 80
120+ days 332 556 89 52 97 15
 11,122 13,907 11,393 600 1,190 1,248
   Financial statements
103 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
18. Trade and other receivables continued 
 Group  Company 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2012 
$’000 
2011 
$’000 
 2012
$’000 
2011
$’000
Balance at beginning of the year 1,092 938  184 100
Amounts written off during the year (35) (96)  – –
Amounts recovered during the year (19) –  – –
Increase in allowance recognised in profit or loss 317 220  (169) 82
Exchange differences (101) 30  – 2
Balance at end of the year 1,254 1,092  15 184
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. With the exception of the three customers noted above, the concentration of credit 
risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision 
required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts. 
 Group  Company 
Ageing of impaired trade receivables 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
0–60 days 72 – 83  – – –
60–90 days 2 – 68  – – –
90–120 days – 19 94  – 5 80
120+ days 1,180 1,073 693  15 179 20
 1,254 1,092 938  15 184 100
19. Borrowings 
 Group  Company 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost    
Bank overdrafts 2,398 1,872 428  12,572 – –
Secured borrowings at amortised cost    
Bank loans 37,420 25,670 38,463  22,757 6,499 20,195
Total borrowings at amortised cost 39,818 27,542 38,891  35,329 6,499 20,195
    
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 2,398 27,542 428  12,572 6,499 –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 37,420 – 38,463  22,757 – 20,195
 39,818 27,542 38,891  35,329 6,499 20,195
The weighted average interest rates paid on the Group’s borrowings during the period were as follows: 
 2012 
%  
2011
%
2010
%
Bank loans and overdrafts 2.5 5.1 5.9
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
104 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
19. Borrowings continued 
On 31 May 2011 the Group entered into a new US$75 million multi-currency combined revolving overdraft and guarantee facility with a 
syndicate of three banks (Lloyds Banking Group plc, HSBC Bank plc and Clydesdale Bank plc – together ‘the Syndicate’). The facility is 
available until June 2015. 
The amount available under the facility at 1 April 2012 was $75,000,000 (2011:$42,100,000, 2010: $57,700,000). The facility was secured by 
fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain Group companies. 
At 1 April 2012, the facility incurred interest at a margin of 1.75% (2011: 2.75%, 2010: 3.25%) above LIBOR. 
Also drawn under the facilities, and not included above, are bonds, guarantees and letters of credit amounting to $2,989,000 (2011: 
$4,511,000, 2010: $5,613,000). 
Drawings under the facilities were made in various currencies. Total borrowings for the Group at 1 April 2012 can be analysed by currency 
as follows: 
Group 2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
US Dollar 26,102 9,187 22,127
Euro 7,357 19,169 18,267
British Pound 7,383 – –
Singapore Dollar 219 – –
 41,061 28,356 40,394
Less: debt issue costs (1,243) (814) (1,503)
 39,818 27,542 38,891
Undrawn borrowing facilities 
At 1 April 2012, the Group had available $30,950,000 (2011: $20,783,000, 2010: $21,237,000) undrawn committed borrowing facilities. 
20. Obligations under finance leases 
 Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum 
lease payments 
Group and Company 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:  
Within one year 122 195 109 117 195 97
In second and third years – 122 152 – 108 135
 122 317 261 117 303 232
Less: future finance charges (5) (14) (29) 
Present value of lease obligations 117 303 232 
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (117) (195) (97) (117) (195) (97)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months – 108 135 – 108 135
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its plant and machinery under finance leases. The average lease term is 2.5 years (2011: 2.5 years, 
2010: 3 years). For the current period the average effective borrowing rate was 4.1% (2011: 4.1%, 2010: 4.1%). Interest rates are fixed at the 
contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are 
secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets.  Financial statements
105 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
21. Trade and other payables 
 Group  Company 
Trade payables 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Trade payables 88,551 91,641 68,523  1,547 1,888 1,666
 
   
Other payables 
   
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – –  99,594 106,664 171,724
Other taxes and social security 7,041 2,906 3,780  1,430 861 480
Accruals and deferred income 28,239 32,607 21,667  2,693 2,244 3,504
 35,280 35,513 25,447  103,717 109,769 175,708
    
Due for settlement within 12 months 34,574 35,513 25,447  44,779 50,763 103,475
Due for settlement after 12 months 706 – –  58,938 59,006 72,233
 35,280 35,513 25,447  103,717 109,769 175,708
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period 
taken for trade purchases is 90 days (2011: 90 days, 2010: 79 days). The Group has financial risk policies in place to ensure that all payables 
are paid within the credit time frame. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value. 
22. Deferred tax 
Group 
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period. 
 
Unremitted
earnings
$’000
Trading 
losses 
$’000 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
$’000 
Other short-
term timing
differences
$’000 
Total
$’000
At 4 April 2010 (restated)  – 177 58 73 308
(Charge)/credit to income (2,084) 1,623 (251) 305 (407)
Exchange differences (94) 33 (5) 13 (53)
At 3 April 2011 (restated) (2,178) 1,833 (198) 391 (152)
(Charge)/credit to income (254) 3,168 85 (316) 2,683
Exchange differences 3 29 (16) (12) 4
At 1 April 2012 (2,429) 5,030 (129) 63 2,535
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes: 
 2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Deferred tax assets 5,098 2,157 407
Deferred tax liabilities (2,563) (2,309) (99)
 2,535 (152) 308
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of $86,000,000 (2011: $93,444,000, 2010: $81,913,000) available for offset 
against future profits. The Group has recognised $5,030,000 (2011: $1,833,000, 2010: $177,000) of deferred tax asset in respect of these 
unused tax losses. This is as a result of improved trading and the benefits arising from the global supply chain project. Included in 
unrecognised tax losses are losses of $38,000,000 (2011: $29,000,000, 2010: $33,372,000) that cannot be carried forward indefinitely. 
Of this amount, $100,000 (2011: $483,000, 2010: $758,000) expires during the next five accounting periods. Other losses may be carried 
forward indefinitely. 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
106 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
22. Deferred tax continued 
At the balance sheet date, a deferred tax liability of $2,429,000 (2011: $2,178,000, 2010: $nil) has been recognised on temporary differences 
of $25,000,000 (2011: $22,555,000, 2010: $21,237,000) relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to 
control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The temporary differences at 1 April 2012 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK 
of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions 
in which these subsidiaries operate. 
Company 
At the balance sheet date, the Company had unused tax losses of $33,000,000 (2011: $41,889,000, 2010: $27,304,000) available for offset 
against future profits. The Company has recognised $2,180,000 (2011: $741,000, 2010: $nil) of deferred tax asset in respect of these unused 
tax losses, following the implementation of a global supply chain optimisation project. The Company has increased the recognition of 
deferred tax assets relating to tax losses as the benefits from the global supply chain project are accruing with greater certainty. The losses 
may be carried forward indefinitely. Off-set against this deferred tax asset is a $156,000 deferred tax liability (2011: $nil, 2010: $nil) in respect 
of other temporary timing differences. 
In addition to the changes in rates of Corporation tax disclosed in note 10, a number of further changes to the UK Corporation tax system 
were announced in the March 2012 UK Budget Statement. Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 24% to 23% from 
1 April 2013 is expected to be included in the Finance Act 2012. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate to 22% 
from 1 April 2014. These further changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in 
these financial statements. It is not expected that these changes will have a material impact on the Group’s or the Company’s tax balances.  
23. Provisions 
Group 
Property
$’000
Corporate 
restructuring 
$’000 
Other
$’000 
Total
$’000
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 10,321 927 1,068 12,316
Charge/(credit) in the year 253 – (330) (77)
Utilisation of provision (3,034) (852) (461) (4,347)
Unwinding of discount (Note 6) 322 54 – 376
Exchange differences 358 18 40 416
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 8,220 147 317 8,684
Charge/(credit) in the year (1,631) 11 – (1,620)
Utilisation of provision (1,356) – (146) (1,502)
Unwinding of discount (Note 6) 216 – – 216
Exchange differences (78) (7) (25) (110)
At 1 April 2012 5,371 151 146 5,668
Less: included in current liabilities (831) (101) (146) (1,078)
Non–current liabilities 4,540 50 – 4,590
   Financial statements
107 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
23. Provisions continued 
Company 
Property 
$’000 
Corporate
restructuring
$’000
Total
$’000
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 6,774 887 7,661
Charge/(credit) in the year 300 – 300
Utilisation of provision (1,773) (906) (2,679)
Unwinding of discount  222 – 222
Transfers 145 – 145
Exchange differences 257 19 276
At 3 April 2011 5,925 – 5,925
Charge/(credit) in the year 479 – 479
Utilisation of provision (1,092) – (1,092)
Unwinding of discount  139 – 139
Transfers – – –
Exchange differences (79) – (79)
At 1 April 2012 5,372 – 5,372
Less: included in current liabilities (832) – (832)
Non-current liabilities 4,540 – 4,540
Property provisions 
Property provisions represent the anticipated net costs of onerous leases and associated dilapidations. The provisions have been recorded 
taking into account management’s best estimate, following appropriate advice, of the anticipated net cost of the lease over the remaining 
lease term and the level of sub-lease rental income, if any, that can be obtained from sub-tenants. This provision will be utilised as the rental 
payments, net of any sub-lease income, fall due through to 2020. 
Corporate restructuring 
The provision at 4 April 2010 of $927,000 included an amount relating to the compensation for loss of office payable to the former CEO of the 
Group, who left the Group on 9 March 2009. During the prior year full and final settlement was made with regards to this claim. 
Other 
Other provisions include the Directors’ best estimate, based upon past experience, of the Group’s liability under specific product warranties 
and legal claims. The timing of the cash out-flow with respect to these claims is uncertain. 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
108 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
24. Share capital 
 
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Authorised:  
75,000,000 (2011: 75,000,000, 2010: 75,000,000) Ordinary shares of 25p each 34,513 34,513 34,513
Issued and fully paid:  
62,493,578 (2011: 62,493,578, 2010: 56,821,563) Ordinary shares of 25p each 28,180 28,180 25,940
During the prior year, the Company issued 5,672,015 shares to employee share trusts in order to fulfil future employee share option 
exercises. For further details see Note 27. 
Under the terms of the Group’s various share schemes, the following rights to subscribe for Ordinary shares are outstanding: 
 Number of shares 
Date of grant Option price (p) Exercise period 2012 2011 2010
Discretionary Share Option Schemes    
3 July 2000 1,475 July 2003 – July 2010 – – 13,500
18 June 2001 788 June 2004 – June 2011 – – 13,500
20 June 2003 87 June 2007 – June 2013 – – 45,000
Long–Term Incentive Plan    
15 June 2007 25 June 2010 – Dec 2010 – – 140,736
9 July 2008 25 July 2011 – Jan 2012 – 581,646 591,646
Performance Share Plan    
7 September 2009 25 Sept 2012 – Mar 2013 1,117,945 1,302,945 1,407,945
3 November 2009 25 Nov 2012 – May 2013 – 90,000 90,000
11 January 2010 25 Jan 2013 – July 2013 90,000 90,000 90,000
31 August 2010 25 Aug 2013 – Aug 2020 1,750,000 2,045,000 –
31 August 2010 25 Aug 2014 – Aug 2020 1,150,000 1,225,000 –
1 December 2010 25 Aug 2013 – Aug 2020 30,000 30,000 –
6 June 2011 25 Aug 2014 – June 2021 325,000 – –
5 July 2011 25 July 2014 – July 2021 79,652 – –
5 July 2011 25 July 2014 – July 2021 211,348 – –
Restricted share scheme    
6 September 2010 – Sept 2013 – Mar 2014 42,016 42,016 –
Non-Executive Director long-term incentive scheme    
1 October 2010 – Mar 2012 – Mar 2017 266,666 266,666 –
1 October 2010 – Mar 2013 – Mar 2018 266,667 266,667 –
1 October 2010 – Mar 2014 – Mar 2019 266,667 266,667 –
   5,595,961 6,206,607 2,392,237
For further details of the Group’s share option schemes see Note 31. 
25. Non-equity preference shares 
In the 52 weeks to 1 April 2012, the Company cancelled its 80,000 cumulative preference shares of £1 each at a cost of $130,000. The shares 
had rights to a fixed cumulative preference dividend payable, at the rate of 7% per annum, on the amount paid up or credited as paid up 
thereon on 31 March and 30 September in each year but not to any further participation in the profits of the Company. Prior to cancellation, 
accrued interest of $77,000 was paid. 
These preference shares had previously been recorded as non-current liabilities since they had no fixed repayment date. 
   Financial statements
109 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
26. Non-distributable special reserve 
On 6 December 2010, the Company applied and was granted a Court Order releasing it from its undertaking to maintain a special reserve 
created in connection with a capital reduction carried out by the Company on 18 October 2005. As a result the balance of $33,136,000 in the 
non-distributable reserve account was transferred to the accumulated losses reserve. 
27. Own shares 
 
2012
 $’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
At beginning of the period 2,240 –
Issued in the period – 2,240
Acquired in the period 3,256
Disposed of on exercise in the period (225) –
At end of the period 5,271 2,240
The own shares reserve represents both the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and the nominal share capital of 
shares in the Company issued to the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust to satisfy future 
share option exercises under the Group’s share option schemes (see Note 31).  
The number of ordinary shares held by the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust at 1 April 2012 was 4,866,815 (2011: 4,667,015, 2010: nil) 
and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust was 1,005,000 (2011: 1,005,000, 2010: nil). The market value of the shares as at 1 April 2012 
was $24,143,000 (2011: $28,326,000, 2010: $nil). 
Unless and until the Company notifies a trustee of either trust to the contrary, and in the case of the Volex Group plc Employee Share Trust, 
in respect to shares held in the trust in which a beneficial interest has not vested, rights to dividends in respect to the shares held in the trust 
are waived. 
28. Analysis of net debt 
Group 
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
$’000
Bank  
loans 
$’000 
Finance 
leases 
$’000 
Debt issue 
Costs
$’000
Total
$’000
At 4 April 2010 (restated) 27,210 (39,966) (232) 1,503 (11,485)
Cash flow (8,955) 14,387 144 24 5,600
Exchange differences 270 (905) (16) 65 (586)
Other non-cash changes – – (199) (778) (977)
At 3 April 2011 (restated) 18,525 (26,484) (303) 814 (7,448)
Cash flow 23,714 (13,167) 181 1,655 12,383
Exchange differences (1,059) 988 5 7 (59)
Other non-cash changes – – – (1,233) (1,233)
At 1 April 2012 41,180 (38,663) (117) 1,243 3,643
Debt issue costs relate to bank facility arrangement fees. Amortisation of debt issue costs in the year amounted to $1,233,000 
(2011: $778,000).  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
110 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
29. Notes to the statement of cash flows 
Group  Company 
 
2012
$’000
2011 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Profit for the period 17,182 16,652  1,254 44,368
Adjustments for:   
Finance income (73) (222)  (159) (343)
Finance costs 3,900 3,383  1,825 2,066
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings – –  – (46,208)
Income tax expense 2,029 3,660  (379) 53
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 2,448 3,041  174 113
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,155 390  552 146
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 48 23  0 0
Share option charge 3,976 2,602  3,976 2,602
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes – –  (507) (938)
(Decrease)/Increase in provisions (3,122) (4,347)  (613) (2,552)
Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 27,543 25,182  6,123 (693)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories 968 (9,340)  954 1,833
(Increase)/decrease in receivables 9,161 (24,708)  (17,200) 44,132
Increase/(decrease) in payables (1,340) 29,501  (6,116) (32,650)
Movement in working capital 8,789 (4,547)  (22,362) 13,315
Cash generated from operations 36,332 20,635  (16,239) 12,622
Cash generated by operations before non-recurring items 41,039 20,635  (16,239) 12,622
Cash utilised by non-recurring items (4,707) –  – –
Taxation paid (3,199) (6,774)  (887) (605)
Interest paid (2,780) (2,774)  (1,888) (1,019)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 30,353 11,087  (19,014) 10,998
Cash outflow arising on disposals 
Group  Company 
Net cash outflows arising on disposal 
2012
$’000
2011 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Settlement of deferred contribution – (247)  – (247)
In the 53 weeks ended 5 April 2009, the Group disposed of its Wiring Harness division. In the prior year, $247,000 was paid to the purchaser 
under the sale agreement, representing full and final settlement of all amounts due.  
Cash and cash equivalents 
Group Company 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Cash and bank balances 43,578 20,397 27,638 – 4,086 4,625
Bank overdrafts (2,398) (1,872) (428) (12,572) – –
 41,180 18,525 27,210 (12,572) 4,086 4,625
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group, short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less and 
bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
   Financial statements
111 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
30. Operating lease arrangements 
Group  Company 
 
2012 
 
$’000 
2011 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
The following have been recognised during the year:    
Minimum lease payments made under operating leases    
Paid 7,433 9,916  1,666 1,678
Recognised in operating profit 6,009 7,225  242 180
Payments made under operating leases net of sub-lease receipts and charged against the onerous lease provision in the year was 
$1,424,000 (2011: $2,691,000) for the Group and $1,424,000 (2011: $1,498,000) for the Company.  
At the balance sheet date, the Group and Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
Group  Company 
 
2012 
 
$’000 
2011 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Within one year 6,807 6,354  1,797 1,685
In the second to fifth years inclusive 11,183 11,375  4,685 5,132
After five years 2,214 6,585  2,214 2,885
 20,204 24,314  8,696 9,702
Operating lease payments primarily represent rentals payable by the Group for its office and manufacturing properties. Leases are 
negotiated for an average term of five years. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants under non-cancellable sub-leases for the following future minimum 
lease payments: 
Group  Company 
 
2012 
 
$’000 
2011 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Within one year 1,065 831  352 326
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,799 1,088  810 957
 2,864 1,919  1,162 1,283
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
112 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
31. Share-based payments 
 Group 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Share-based payment charge 3,485 1,946
National insurance charge in relation to share awards 491 656
 3,976 2,602
During the period the Group had three types of equity-settled share option schemes in operation; a Long Term Incentive plan (‘LTIP’), a 
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) and a Non-Executive Director Long Term Incentive Scheme (‘NED-LTIS’). In addition, the Group had issued 
Restricted Share Awards (‘RSAs’) under the Restricted Share Scheme.  
Options issued under the LTIP are exercisable between three years and ten years from the date of grant subject to the continued 
employment of the participant and achievement of earnings per share and share price performance targets. All awards under the LTIP have 
an exercise price of 25p, which is equivalent to the nominal value of the underlying Ordinary share. Full details of how the scheme operates 
are explained on page 59 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.  During the year, the last and sole remaining grants under the LTIP, which 
were awarded in FY2009, vested and were fully exercised by the beneficiaries.  As a result, at 1 April 2012, there were no remaining awards 
outstanding under the LTIP. 
Options issued under the PSP are exercisable between three years and ten years from the date of grant subject to the continued 
employment of the participant and achievement of share price performance targets. All awards under the PSP have an exercise price of 25p, 
which is equivalent to the nominal value of the underlying Ordinary share. Full details of how the scheme operates are explained on pages 
58 to 59 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Certain awards issued under the PSP have been, with the recipients’ agreement, converted 
into shares held under a Joint Share Ownership Plan (‘JSOP’).  These shares are jointly held by the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust, 
which under the terms of the agreement holds the majority of ownership rights until such time as the original awards vest.  As the 
performance conditions and other key terms of the JSOP are the same as those of the PSP, and as the JSOP is used only as a structure to 
deliver PSP awards, these JSOP awards have been reported as PSP awards. 
The NED-LTIS seeks to reward certain Non-Executive Directors subject to their continued employment and certain share price targets as at 
25 March 2012. The awards vest in equal tranches at 25 March 2012, 25 March 2013 and 25 March 2014 and are exercisable for 5 years 
from the vesting date. The Group has the option to provide the award in shares of the Company or cash equivalent to the number of shares 
that would be awarded multiplied by the market price of the Company’s shares at the date of exercise. Full details of how the scheme 
operates are explained on page 62 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The RSAs are nil cost options that vest, subject to continued employment, after three years from the date of grant. RSA awards have an 
exercise price of $nil. 
In the prior year, options issued under the Discretionary Share Option Schemes (‘DSOS’) lapsed as a result of the performance conditions not 
being met.  
Details of the share awards outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of those awards are as follows: 
2012  2011 
 
Number of share 
awards
Weighted average 
exercise price (p)  
Number of share 
awards
Weighted average 
exercise price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of period  6,206,607 22  2,392,327 39
Granted during the period 652,000 25  4,147,016* 20
Exercised during the period (570,000) 25  – –
Expired during the period (692,646) 25   (332,736) 123
Outstanding at the end of the period 5,595,961 21   6,206,607 22
Exercisable at the end of the period 266,667 –  – –
* The awards granted in the prior year include 800,000 NED-LTIS awards which were issued in replacement of an existing right to a cash award.  
Of the share awards that expired during the period, 692,646 (2011: 120,000) lapsed in respect of leavers and no options (2011: 212,736) 
expired due to failure to meet performance conditions. 
The awards outstanding at 1 April 2012 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6 years (2011: 7 years). 
   Financial statements
113 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
31. Share-based payments continued 
Of the 5,595,961 awards outstanding at 1 April 2012, 4,753,945 had an exercise price of £0.25 and 842,016 had an exercise price of £nil. 
Of the 6,206,607 awards outstanding at 3 April 2011, 5,364,591 had an exercise price of £0.25 and 842,016 had an exercise price of £nil. 
In FY2012, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted during the year was $1,734,000 (2011: $9,060,826). 
The fair values of the awards granted in the year were calculated at the date of grant using a stochastic (Monte Carlo binomial) model. 
The inputs into the valuation models were as follows: 
 2012 2011
Weighted average share price £3.41 £2.46
Weighted average exercise price £0.25 £0.20
Expected volatility 50% 50%
Expected life 3.25 years 6.36 years
Risk-free rate 1.41% 1.95%
Expected dividends 0.65% –
Expected volatility was determined with reference to historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioural considerations. 
The RSAs were valued at their market price of $2.39 on day of grant. 
32. Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Company operates two Inland Revenue approved defined contribution schemes and makes contributions to a Group pension plan. 
Overseas the Group operates two defined contribution schemes, one in the USA and one in Ireland.  
The total cost charged to the Group’s income statement in the year was $1,201,000 (2011: $2,500,000). The total cost charged to the 
Company’s income statement in the year was $715,000 (2011: $514,000). 
Defined benefit schemes 
In September 2010 the Company’s two Inland Revenue approved defined benefit pension schemes were merged, after appropriate 
approval had been obtained from the members and trustees of both schemes. During FY2011, the assets and liabilities of the Volex No. 1 
Pension Scheme were transferred into the Volex Executive Pension Scheme, with the latter scheme now the sole vehicle for the provision 
of accrued pension rights in the future. Wind-up of the Volex No. 1 Pension Scheme was completed during FY2012 with the signing, by the 
Trustees and the Company, of the Deed of Dissolution, in November 2011.  
Future accrual of retirement benefits under the scheme(s) ceased on 31 March 2003 when the scheme(s) were replaced with defined 
contribution arrangements. The last full actuarial valuation of the scheme(s) was carried out by a qualified independent actuary on 
31 July 2010, and the assumptions used and results from this valuation have been incorporated, as appropriate, in the following IAS19 
disclosures. This valuation has been updated on an approximate basis to 1 April 2012 and utilises the projected unit credit valuation method.  
The key assumptions utilised are: 
 Valuation at 
 2012 2011
Discount rate 4.6% 5.5%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.3% 6.4%
Future pension increases 2.3% 2.9%
Price inflation 3.3% 3.7%
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
114 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
32. Retirement benefit schemes continued 
The following mortality assumptions have been made: 
 2012 2011
Future life expectancy for a pensioner currently aged 65 (years) 
– Male 23.3 23.2
– Female 24.4 24.3
Future life expectancy at age 65 for a non–pensioner currently aged 55 (years) 
– Male 24.2 24.0
– Female 25.4 25.3
 
Amounts recognised in income statement (Note 6) 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Interest cost (1,109) (1,105)
Expected return on scheme assets 1,135 1,062
Finance income / (costs) 26 (43)
No other amounts have been recognised in the income statement (2011: $nil). 
Actuarial losses of $1,828,000 (2011: gain of $1,500,000) have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Amounts recognised in balance sheet 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Fair value of scheme assets 18,245 18,660
Present value of defined benefit obligations (21,817) (20,794)
Deficit in scheme recognised in the balance sheet (3,572) (2,134)
Current liabilities 596 251
Non-current liabilities 2,976 1,883
 3,572 2,134
The Company has contributed $294,000 to its defined benefit pension plans in the period ended 1 April 2012 (2011: $242,000). 
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
At beginning of period (20,794) (20,407)
Interest cost (1,109) (1,105)
Actuarial gains/(losses) (1,089) 1,371
Benefits paid 983 653
Foreign exchange 192 (1,306)
At end of period (21,817) (20,794)
 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
At beginning of period 18,660 16,788
Expected return on scheme assets 1,135 1,062
Actuarial gains/(losses) (739) 129
Contributions from the sponsoring company 294 242
Benefits paid (983) (653)
Foreign exchange (122) 1,092
At end of period 18,245 18,660
   Financial statements
115 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
32. Retirement benefit schemes continued 
Composition of assets 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Equity instruments 11,677 13,288
Debt instruments 6,021 4,852
Property 547 520
 18,245 18,660
None of the fair values of the assets shown above include any of the Company’s own financial instruments or any property occupied or other 
assets used by the Company (2011: $nil). 
Expected long-term rates of return 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on 
risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the 
portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted 
based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions for the portfolio. 
The expected long-term rates of return are as follows: 
 
2012
%
2011
%
Equity instruments 6.9 7.0
Debt instruments 5.2 5.2
Property 6.9 7.0
 6.3 6.4
The actual return on scheme assets for the year was a gain of $422,000 (2011: $1,191,000). 
Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
At beginning of the year 2,448 948
Net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the year (1,828) 1,500
At end of the year 620 2,448
 
Five-year history of experience adjustments 
2012 2011 
(restated) 
2010 
(restated) 
2009
(restated)
2008
(restated)
Fair value of scheme assets $’000 18,245 18,660 16,788 13,584 23,147
Present value of defined benefit obligations $’000 (21,817) (20,794) (20,407) (16,290) (26,487)
Deficit in scheme $’000 (3,572) (2,134) (3,619) (2,706) (3,340)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities  
$’000 56 23 83 (88) 991
% scheme liabilities – – – 0.5% 3.7%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets  
$’000 (713) 129 4,143 (3,939) (1,821)
% scheme assets (4%) 1% 25% (29%) (8%)
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the 52 weeks to 31 March 2013 is $596,000 
(2011: $251,000). 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
116 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
33. Financial instruments 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.  
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 19, cash and cash equivalents and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as contained in the statement of 
changes in equity. 
The Board reviews the capital structure on a regular basis including facility headroom, forecast working capital and capital 
expenditure requirements.  
The Group has a revolving credit facility (‘RCF’), which after amortisation had an available limit of $75,000,000 as at 1 April 2012 
(2011: $42,100,000). At 1 April 2012 the amounts drawn under this facility included term loans of $24,000,000 and €11,000,000 
(2011: $7,300,000 and €13,500,000) and overdrafts of $2,398,000 denominated in a variety of currencies. The average combined 
utilisation during the year was $40,127,000 (2011: $32,800,000).  
At 1 April 2012 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of $30,950,000 (2011: $20,783,000).  
Based on the Group’s projected financial performance the Board are confident that the combination of the above facilities provides adequate 
liquidity headroom for the successful execution of the Group’s operations and the Group will be able to operate in agreement with the 
required covenant levels.  
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
Financial instruments 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank borrowings and overdrafts, finance leases, cash and short-term deposits. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk arising from its borrowings, 
forward currency contracts to manage the currency risks arising from its operations and copper forward contracts to manage the 
commodity price risk arising from its operations. 
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements. Except as detailed below, the Directors consider that the carrying amounts of the financial assets and financial liabilities 
recorded at amortised cost approximate their fair values: 
 
Book value
2012
$’000
Book value
2011
(restated)
$’000
Book value
2010
(restated)
$’000
Fair value 
2012 
 
$’000 
Fair value
2011
(restated)
$’000
Fair value
2010
(restated)
$’000
Financial assets – loans and receivables  
Cash 43,578 20,397 27,638 43,578 20,397 27,638
Trade and other receivables 92,635 108,277 88,232 92,635 108,277 88,232
Financial liabilities – Amortised cost  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 39,818 27,542 38,891 41,061 28,356 40,394
Obligations under finance leases 117 303 232 117 303 232
Trade and other payables 107,433 121,256 93,970 107,433 121,256 93,970
Non-equity preference shares – 207 121 – 277 252
Financial derivatives for which hedge accounting has been applied  
Derivative financial instruments 1,453 – – 1,453 – –
Financial derivatives for which hedge accounting has not been applied  
Derivative financial instruments (54) (296) (563) (54) (296) (563)
In the prior year, the fair value of the non-equity preference shares was derived from a net present value calculation using a discount rate 
of 12.74%. 
The financial derivatives above fall into level 3, as defined by IFRS 7: Financial Instruments Disclosures. The fair value has been calculated at 
the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.  Financial statements
117 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
33. Financial instruments continued 
Financial risk management 
The Group’s Corporate Treasury function provides services to the business, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financing, 
monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group. These risks include market risk (interest rate risk, currency 
risk and commodity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Group seeks to minimise these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge these risk exposures and external borrowings 
denominated in currencies that match the net asset currency profile of the Group. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
these risks and they are summarised below. The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments. It is, and 
has been throughout the periods under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
Market risk 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and copper 
commodity prices. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises principally from borrowings issued at variable rates which expose the Group to cash flow  
interest-rate risk.  
Management does not consider the risk arising from finance leases to be significant. 
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 
2012 
Within 1
year
$’000
1–2
years
$’000
2–3
years
$’000
3–4 
years 
$’000 
4–5 
years 
$’000 
More than
5 years
$’000
Total
$’000
Fixed rate:   
Obligations under finance leases (117) – – – – – (117)
Floating rate:   
Cash assets 43,578 – – – – – 43,578
Bank loans and borrowings (2,398) – – (37,420) – – (39,818)
 
2011 
Within 1
year
(restated)
$’000
1–2
years
(restated)
$’000
2–3
years
(restated)
$’000
3–4 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
4–5 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
More than
5 years
(restated)
$’000
Total
(restated)
$’000
Fixed rate:   
Obligations under finance leases (195) (108) – – – – (303)
Floating rate:   
Cash assets 20,397 – – – – – 20,397
Bank loans and borrowings (27,542) – – – – – (27,542)
 
2010 
Within 1
year
(restated)
$’000
1–2
years
(restated)
$’000
2–3
years
(restated)
$’000
3–4 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
4–5 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
More than
5 years
(restated)
$’000
Total
(restated)
$’000
Fixed rate:   
Obligations under finance leases (97) (77) (58) – – – (232)
Floating rate:   
Cash assets 27,638 – – – – – 27,638
Bank loans and borrowings (428) (38,463) – – – – (38,891)
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
118 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
33. Financial instruments continued 
Interest rate swap contracts 
The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, and by 
the use of interest rate swap contracts. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite; 
ensuring the most cost effective hedging strategies are applied. 
Under interest rate swap contacts, the Group agrees to exchange differences between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on 
agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued 
fixed rate debt held and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at the 
reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the 
contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year. 
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding at the 
reporting date. 
Average contract 
fixed interest 
Notional principal 
amount 
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts 
2012
%
2011
%
2010
%
2012 
$’000 
2011
$’000
2010
$’000
Less than one year 2.2 2.2 2.2 14,999 30,780 45,266
1–2 years 2.2 2.2 15,389 30,177
2–3 years – 2.2 – 15,089
Fair value (54) (295) (563)
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is three months LIBOR. The Group will settle the 
difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis. 
The interest rate swap contracts are not designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and consequently the fair value gain (excluding 
the impact of foreign exchange) of $214,000 has been reflected in the results for the year (2011: $285,000) (see Note 6). 
Interest rate sensitivity 
During the year the Group reduced the extent of cover provided by interest rate swaps from 100% at 3 April 2011 to 45% at 1 April 2012. The 
sensitivity analysis prepared is after including the movement in fair value on the interest rate swaps outstanding as at 1 April 2012. For floating 
rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the 1 April 2012 was outstanding for the whole year.  
Had interest rates been 0.5% higher/ 0.25% lower in the year, and all other variables were held constant, Group profit before tax would have 
been $32,000 higher/$18,000 lower (2011: $34,000 higher/$7,000 lower, 2010: $88,000 higher/$22,000 lower). A 0.5% increase/0.25% 
decrease interest rate sensitivity test has been performed since this represents the Directors’ assessment of a reasonably possible change 
in interest rates. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect 
to the Euro and Sterling. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net 
investments in foreign operations.  
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s 
policy is to hedge its related translation exposures through the designation of certain amounts of its foreign currency denominated debt 
as a hedging instrument. 
   Financial statements
119 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
33. Financial instruments continued 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows: 
Liabilities  Assets 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
Euro 18,076 36,356 25,309  11,737 18,842 23,225
US Dollar 102,840 87,101 77,756  95,849 87,272 67,144
Chinese Renminbi 13,507 9,359 5,679  8,159 6,852 2,455
Indian Rupee 791 4,112 12,906  4,882 7,501 20,243
Other (includes GBP) 12,208 12,674 12,126  17,039 8,207 2,803
Foreign currency sensitivity 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in USD against the relevant foreign currencies. The 10% rate 
used represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes 
only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign 
currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes both external loans and loans to foreign operations within the Group where the 
denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.  
 GBP impact  EURO impact 
 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010 
(restated) 
$’000  
2012 
 
$’000 
2011
(restated)
$’000
2010
(restated)
$’000
10% depreciation in foreign currency    
(i) Profit before tax 617 (206) (3,158)  (210) (119) (684)
(ii) Equity* (12,005) (10,218) (140)  271 4,276 (2,782)
10% appreciation in foreign currency    
(i) Profit before tax (505) 246 3,861  172 142 837
(ii) Equity* 9,822 12,488 171  (222) 4,276 3,399
(i) This is mainly attributable to the exposure on GBP/EURO monetary assets and liabilities in the Group at the balance sheet date. 
(ii) This is mainly attributable to changes in the carrying value of external loans designated a hedge of overseas investments and of intercompany loans for which 
settlement is not planned. 
* Excludes any deferred tax impact. 
Copper commodity price risk 
Copper price volatility is the single largest commodity price exposure facing the Group. Many of the Group’s products, in particular power 
cords used in the Consumer sector, are manufactured from components that contain significant amounts of copper. Where possible the 
Group will pass on copper price movements to its customers. In order to mitigate the remaining volatility associated with copper, the Group 
has entered into arrangements with its key suppliers to purchase copper. Coupled with these purchases, the Group has entered into a 
number of contracts with financial institutions which are linked to the average copper price as published by the London Metal Exchange 
(‘LME’). These contracts have been deemed cash flow hedges of forecast future copper purchases. As at year end, the open copper 
contracts are as follows: 
Copper cash flow hedges   2012
Contracted copper price   
Contracted
 volume (MT)
Fair Value
$’000
$7,000 – $7,500   880 1,028
$7,500 – $8,000   700 418
$8,000 – $8,500 
   
200 7
   1,780 1,453
All contracts expire within 12 months of 1 April 2012.  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
120 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables. Credit risk refers to the risk that 
a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
Bank and cash balances comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value. The credit risk on these assets is limited because the counterparties 
are predominantly financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. 
The Group’s credit risk is therefore primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The Group’s customers are predominantly large blue chip 
OEMs, contract equipment manufacturers and distributors. The Group regularly reviews the credit worthiness of significant customers and 
credit references are sought for major new customers where relevant. The Board recognises that credit risk is a feature of all businesses, 
especially international businesses. However, it believes that all reasonable steps to mitigate any loss are taken. 
The net amount of trade receivables reflects the maximum credit exposure to the Group. No other guarantees or security have been given. 
For further information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables, see Note 18. 
   Financial statements
121 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
33. Financial instruments continued 
Liquidity risk 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities, regular monitoring of forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Included in Note 19 is a description of undrawn facilities as at the balance 
sheet date. 
In addition to the banking facilities available to the Group, during the year the Group entered into a non-recourse invoice discounting facility. 
Under the terms of the arrangement, the Group can sell up to $10 million of trade receivables associated with a specific customer. As at 
1 April 2012, the Group had utilised $9.5 million of this facility. 
The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings to show the timing of cash flows associated with 
the financial liabilities from the balance sheet date to the contracted maturity date. The amounts disclosed represent the contracted (based 
on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay) undiscounted cash flows. 
2012 
Carrying
amount
$’000
Contractual
cash flows
$’000
Within 1 
year 
$’000 
1–2 
years 
$’000 
2–5
years
$’000
More than
5 years
$’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 107,433 107,433 106,727 450 80 176
Obligations under finance leases 117 122 122 – – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 39,818 41,061 2,398 – 38,663 –
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps 54 54 54 – – –
 
2011 
Carrying
amount
(restated)
$’000
Contractual
cash flows
(restated)
$’000
Within 1 
year 
(restated) 
$’000 
1–2 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
2–5
years
(restated)
$’000
More than
5 years
(restated)
$’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 121,256 121,256 121,256 – – –
Obligations under finance leases 303 317 195 122 – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 27,542 28,356 28,356 – – –
Non-equity preference shares 207 – – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps 296 312 275 37 – –
 
2010 
Carrying
amount
(restated)
$’000
Contractual
cash flows
(restated)
$’000
Within 1 
year 
(restated) 
$’000 
1–2 
years 
(restated) 
$’000 
2–5
years
(restated)
$’000
More than
5 years
(restated)
$’000
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 93,970 93,970 93,970 – – –
Obligations under finance leases 232 261 109 86 66 –
Bank overdrafts and loans 38,891 40,394 428 39,966 – –
Non-equity preference shares 121 – – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities   
Interest rate swaps 563 577 312 265 – –
The Group had available to it, $30,950,000 of unused financing facility as at 1 April 2012 (2011: $20,783,000, 2010: $21,237,000). 
  
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
122 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Notes to the financial statements 
continued 
For the 52 weeks ended 1 April 2012 (52 weeks ended 3 April 2011) 
34. Contingent liabilities 
As a global group, subsidiary companies, in the normal course of business, engage in significant levels of cross-border trading. 
The customs, duties and sales tax regulations associated with these transactions are complex and often subject to interpretation. 
While the Group places considerable emphasis on compliance with such regulations, including appropriate use of external legal advisors, 
full compliance with all customs, duty and sales tax regulations cannot be guaranteed. 
The Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Group companies. The Company considers 
these to be insurance arrangements and treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that 
the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
35. Related party transactions 
Group 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Compensation of key management – Directors of Parent Company 
2012
$’000
2011
(restated)
$’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,504 1,493
Post employment benefits 184 137
Share-based payments 2,800 1,728
 4,488 3,358
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options, pension contributions, pension entitlements, fees for consulting services and interests 
for the period are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 65. 
On 23 August 2011, Andrew Cherry fully repaid an advance of $105,535 (£65,505) from the Volex Group Employee Share Trust. This advance 
had been issued on 4 March 2011 and had been outstanding as at 3 April 2011. The Volex Group Employee Share Trust is consolidated into 
the Group figures and therefore the amount was included within other receivables as at 3 April 2011. For further details on this transaction, 
see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 65. 
Company 
During the period the Company levied the following charges on its subsidiary undertakings: 
 
2012
$’000
2011
$’000
Management fees 17,188 15,951
Royalty fees 4,790 4,738
Interest 159 193
 22,137 20,882
Amounts due to and from subsidiary undertaking are shown in Notes 18 and 21. 
During the period, the Company provided an interest free loan of $3,255,000 (2011: $1,880,000) and $nil (2011: $404,000) to the Volex Group 
plc Employee Share Trust (‘EST’) and the Volex Group Guernsey Purpose Trust (‘GPT’) respectively. The EST and GPT used these funds to 
acquire 769,800 (2011: 4,667,015) and nil (2011: 1,005,000) shares in the Company respectively to satisfy future employee exercises of long-
term incentive awards under the Group’s various incentive schemes. As at 1 April 2012, 570,000 options had been exercised, allowing the 
Trusts to repay $330,000 to the Company. The balance of the loans remained outstanding as at 1 April 2012.  
On 23 August 2011, the EST fully repaid an interest free loan of $105,535 (£65,505) from the Company. This loan had been issued on 4 March 
2011 and had been outstanding as at 3 April 2011. For further details of this transaction, see the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 65. 
  Financial statements
123 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Principal operating subsidiaries 
United Kingdom 
Volex Powercords Europe is a trading division of Volex plc. 
Volex Group Holdings Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Volex plc which is registered in England and Wales and which acts as 
a holding Company, as detailed below. 
Overseas 
The principal overseas subsidiary undertakings, the business of which is the manufacture and/or sale of interconnect and cable assembly 
products, all of which are wholly owned, are as follows: 
Name of entity Notes Country of incorporation/registration and operation
Volex Pte Ltd 1 Singapore
Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 5 Singapore
PT Volex Indonesia 7 Indonesia
PT Volex Cable Assembly 7 Indonesia
Volex Cable Assemblies (Phils) Inc. 2 Philippines
Volex Japan KK 2 Japan
Volex (Taiwan) Co. Ltd 2 Taiwan
Volex (Thailand) Co. Ltd 2 Thailand
Volex Cable Assembly (Vietnam) Pte Ltd 2 Vietnam
Volex Cable Assemblies Sdn Bhd 3 Malaysia
Volex Cables (HK) Ltd 3 Hong Kong
Volex Interconnect (India) Pvt Ltd 8 India
Volex Interconnect Systems (Suzhou) Co. Ltd 3 China
Volex Cable Assembly (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd 3 China
Volex Cable Assembly (Zhongshan) 3 China
Volex Holdings Inc 1 USA
Volex Inc. 4 USA
Volex Canada Inc. 1 Canada
Volex de Mexico SA de CV 6 Mexico
Volex do BrasilLtda 9 Brazil
Volex Europe Ltd 3 Ireland
Volex Poland SP z.o.o 9 Poland
Volex Sweden AB 1 Sweden
1.   Interests held by Volex plc 
2.  Interests held by Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 
3.  Interests held by Volex Group Holdings Limited 
4.  Interest held by Volex Holdings Inc 
5.  Interest held by Volex Pte Ltd 
6.  Interest held by Volex Holdings Inc and Volex Inc 
7.  Interest held by Volex Pte Ltd and Volex (Asia) Pte Ltd 
8.  Interest held by Volex Plc and Volex Group Holdings Limited 
9.  Interest held by Volex Plc and Volex (No. 4) Limited 
 
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Financial statements
124 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Five year summary 
Results 
Unaudited
IFRS
2012
$’000
Unaudited
IFRS
2011
(restated)
$’000
Unaudited 
IFRS 
2010 
(restated) 
$’000 
Unaudited
IFRS
2009
(restated)
$’000
Unaudited
IFRS
2008
(restated)
$’000
Revenue – total Group 517,769 490,009 365,437 516,710 521,206
Revenue from continuing operations 517,769 490,009 365,437 451,429 448,332
Revenue from discontinued operations – – – 65,281 72,874
Gross margin – total Group 97,529 92,069 73,665 69,423 61,458
Gross margin from continuing operations 97,529 92,069 73,665 70,544 61,651
Gross margin from discontinued operations – – – (1,121) (193)
Operating expenses – total Group (74,491) (68,596) (57,309) (64,924) (57,835)
Operating expenses from continuing operations (74,491) (68,596) (57,309) (59,257) (52,036)
Operating expenses from discontinued operations – – – (5,667) (5,799)
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 – total Group 32,004 26,075 21,313 11,284 8,717
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 from continuing operations 32,004 26,075 21,313 18,072 14,708
Normalised operating profit
(i)
 from discontinued operations – – – (6,788) (5,991)
Operating exceptional items (4,990) – (4,943) (6,988) (5,346)
Share-based payment (charge)/credit (3,976) (2,602) (14) 203 252
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 19,211 20,312 11,028 6,228 4,307
Depreciation and amortisation – continuing operations 3,603 3,431 3,610 3,386 5,109
 
 
Cents Cents
(restated)
Cents 
(restated) 
Cents
(restated)
Cents
(restated)
Basic normalised earnings/(loss) per share – total Group
(ii)
 43.7 33.7 23.5 16.8 7.7
Basic earnings/(loss) per share – total Group 30.4 29.3 14.8 (50.8) (11.9)
 
Balance sheet 
$’000 $’000
(restated)
$’000 
(restated) 
$’000
(restated)
$’000
(restated)
Non-current assets 31,645 20,173 16,034 16,548 20,672
Other assets and liabilities 16,024 25,561 14,655 14,483 67,034
 47,669 45,734 30,689 31,031 87,706
Less net debt 3,643 (7,448) (11,485) (21,793) (42,219)
Net assets 51,312 38,286 19,204 9,238 45,487
Gearing - 19% 60% 236% 93%
(i) Defined as operating profit before non-recurring items and share-based payment charge. 
(ii) Defined as earnings/(loss) per share before share based payment charges, loss on disposal of operations and non-recurring items. 
  Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
In this year’s report
Contents
Overview
01 What we do
10 Highlights
11 Chairman’s letter
12 Volex at a glance
14 Our business model
14 Our strategic drivers
16 Our measurements of success
Business review
18 Chief Executive’s market and performance review
22 Operating review
22  Consumer
24  Telecoms/Datacoms
26  Healthcare
28  Industrial
30  Manufacturing operations and supply chain
31  Technology
33  People, processes, platforms
34 Financial review
40 Group risk management
45 Corporate responsibility
Governance
47 Chairman’s introduction to governance 
48 Board of Directors
50 Corporate governance report
56 Directors’ remuneration report
66 Directors’ report
73 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements
75 Consolidated income statement
76  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
77  Consolidated and Company statement of 
financial position
78  Consolidated and Company statement 
of changes in equity
79  Consolidated and Company statement 
of cash flows
80 Notes to the financial statements
123 Principal operating subsidiaries
124 Five year summary
125 Shareholder information
Shareholder information Reducing our 
Environmental Impact
As part of our desire to reduce our 
environmental impact, you can view  
key information on our website at  
www.volex.com.
Our Investor Relations section includes 
information such as the most recent  
news items, results presentations, 
annual and interim reports, share-price 
performance and contact information.
Paper information 
This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is 
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
. The paper is made 
at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management 
system accreditation. This report was printed by Pureprint 
Group using their pureprint environmental print technology 
which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the 
printing process. Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental 
management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
Design and production 
Radley Yeldar
Read more online  
www.volex.com
http://www.volex.com
Registered office 
and advisors
Registered office
10 Eastbourne Terrace, London, W2 6LG, UK
www.volex.com
Registered number
158956 (Registered in England and Wales)
Registrars
Capita Registrars plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU
www.capita-irg.com
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Lloyds TSB Bank plc  
Clydesdale Bank plc  
HSBC Bank plc
Stockbrokers
Investec Securities 
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Solicitors
Travers Smith LLP  
Hogan Lovells LLP
Financial PR
Buchanan Communications Limited
Financial calendar
2012/13 
Interim results announced w/c 29 October 2012
Year end 31 March 2013
Final results announced w/c 27 May 2013
2013/14 
Interim results announced w/c 28 October 2013
Year end 30 March 2014
Final results announced w/c 26 May 2014
125 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Power 
behind  
the Power
Volex plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Volex plc
10 Eastbourne Terrace 
London W2 6LG 
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 3370 8830 
F +44 (0)20 3370 8831
www.volex.com
Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
