 A leading supplier of 
residential ventilation in the 
UK, Sweden and Germany
Volution Group plc Annual Report 2014
Volution Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 At a Glance
06 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
08 Our Business Model
10 Brands in Action
12 Innovation in Action
14 Scale in Action
16 People in Action
18 Technology Highlight
20 Our Strategy
22 Key Performance Indicators
24 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
28 Corporate Social Responsibility
30 Operational Review
32 Financial Review
Governance Report
36 Introduction to Governance
38 Board of Directors
40 Corporate Governance
41 Board Governance
44 Nomination Committee Report
46 Audit Committee Report
50 Directors’ Remuneration Report
63 Directors’ Report
66 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Financial Statements
67 Independent Auditor’s Report
70 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
71 Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position
72 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
73 Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows
74 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
118 Parent Company Statement 
of Financial Position
119 Parent Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity
120 Parent Company Statement 
of Cash Flows 
121 Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
Additional Information
127 Glossary of Technical Terms
128 Shareholder Information
Find out more online 
www.volutiongroupplc.com
Volution Group plc is a leading supplier of 
ventilation products with primary markets 
in the UK and Northern Europe.
We aim for our products to enhance customers’ 
experience of ventilation by reducing energy, 
improving design and making them easier to use. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 01
Revenue £m
£120.7m
Reported loss 
before tax £m
£(15.5)m
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 £m
£28.5m
Basic and 
diluted EPS
2
 p
(14.0)p
Adjusted 
operating profit
1
 £m
£26.5m
Adjusted operating 
cash flow
3
 £m
£22.8m
Adjusted operating 
margin %
22.0%
Net debt
4
 £m
£42.9m
102.3
(4.2)
23.8
(2.3)
22.2
20.9
21.7 120.7
(15.5)
28.5
(14.0)
26.5
22.8
22.0
172.7
Strategic Report
Highlights
Highlights
 > Performance in line with management expectations 
at the time of the IPO
 > Revenue growth driven by acquisitions: 
 > 3.2% organic revenue growth  
(5.2% on a like‑for‑like currency basis)
 > Inorganic revenue growth of 14.8%, notably as a result 
of the acquisition of PAX in Sweden completed in 
August 2013 
 > Organic revenue growth was helped by an increase in new 
build residential systems sales in the UK, where the Group 
enjoyed an 1 1.2% growth
 > Integration of inVENTer (acquired in April 2014) 
progressing, in line with the anticipated timetable 
 > The Group is enjoying strong demand for its products, 
especially newer, higher value added ventilation systems
 > OEM (Torin‑ Sifan) had a challenging year with lower sales 
of boiler spares 
 > The Group’s reported loss before tax was impacted by 
exceptional costs (including IPO costs), re‑ financing costs, 
costs of acquisitions and higher finance costs under 
previous ownership
 > Net debt reduced by £129.8 million mainly as a result 
of the conversion of investor debt to equity and the 
repayment of some bank debt from the proceeds 
of the new shares issued
Forward-looking statements
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain statements, statistics 
and projections that are or may be forward‑ looking. The accuracy and 
completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements 
regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and 
objectives for the management of future operations of Volution Group plc 
and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed. These statements 
typically contain words such as “intends”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “estimates” 
and words of similar import. By their nature, forward‑ looking statements 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will occur in the future. Although Volution Group plc 
believes that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, 
no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct. 
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of 
Volution Group plc, which could cause actual results and developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward‑ looking 
statements. Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules 
of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Volution Group plc 
has no intention or obligation to update forward‑ looking statements 
contained herein.
2013
2013
2013
2013
2013
2013
2013
2013
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
2014
The Group uses some alternative performance measures to track and assess the underlying performance of the business. These measures 
include adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating cash flow.
Notes
1.  Details of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted 
profit before tax can be found in note 10 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
2.  Details of earnings per share can be found in note 15 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
3.  Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as adjusted EBITDA plus or 
minus movements in operating working capital, less net investments 
in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including 
cash held in escrow).
4.  Net debt is defined as interest‑ bearing loans and borrowings less cash 
and cash equivalents.
42.9 Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 02
Chairman’s Statement
As the newly appointed Chairman of Volution Group plc it is a 
privilege to introduce this, our first Annual Report and Accounts 
following our successful premium listing on the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in June 2014. This has been the result 
of a sound strategy of organic growth combined with selective, 
value‑ adding acquisitions which has supported the achievement 
of a strong growth in revenues and profitability over a number of 
years. As we begin our journey as a listed company, I am confident 
about the prospects for the business.
As a newly listed company, our vision remains the same. We intend 
to maximise our core strengths and track record to outperform our 
underlying construction markets and to further gain market share in 
each of our core geographical markets. We have identified a number 
of key strategic initiatives and these are set out on pages 20 to 21.
Results
We are reporting a very positive set of results for the financial 
year ended 31 July 2014. The successful listing in June enabled 
repayment of £61.9 million of bank debt and conversion of 
£91.7 million of investor debt to share capital and premium, 
strengthening our balance sheet, which will allow us to invest 
organically and in strategic acquisitions, strengthening our 
offering and geographical footprint. Group revenue in the year 
was £120.7 million, an 18% increase compared with the prior 
year. Our underlying result, as measured by adjusted EBITDA, 
was £28.5 million, 23.6% of revenue and a £4.7 million 
improvement compared to the prior year.
The recent acquisition of inVENTer in Germany, in April 2014, 
is being integrated into the wider Group and is progressing, 
in line with the anticipated timetable. 
A recent continuing decline in sales to certain larger customers 
of inVENTer is a point of focus for us. 
Summary
 > Successful premium listing on the main 
market of the London Stock Exchange
 > Very positive set of results for the 
financial year ended 31 July 2014 
 > Intention is to maximise our core 
strengths and continue to outperform 
in our underlying construction markets
 > Commitment and the substantial effort 
of all our employees has contributed to 
the Group’s performance
 > Performance in 2014 has given 
us a solid platform to build upon
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 03
Organic growth* for the Group was helped by an increase in 
new build residential systems sales in the UK, where the Group 
enjoyed an 11.2% growth. The Group is also benefiting from 
strong demand for our products, especially the newer, higher 
value ventilation systems.
The revenue for OEM (Torin‑ Sifan) declined by 2.9% as a 
consequence of lower sales of boiler spares due to a mild winter.
Dividend
The Board intends that the Company will pay an interim dividend 
and a final dividend to be announced at the time of our interim 
and preliminary results. It is expected that our first dividend will 
be an interim dividend payable following publication of our financial 
results for the six months ending 31 January 2015. 
Our initial dividend policy is to target a dividend of approximately 
30% of the Group’s adjusted net income for each financial year.
People
Volution has a skilled workforce as well as experienced and 
integrated senior and regional management teams with proven 
credentials in the industry. The Group has built strong cohesive 
teams across our businesses with the focus on training and effective 
people development and retention to improve our capability and 
performance. I would like to recognise the commitment and the 
substantial effort of all our employees and thank them for their 
contribution to the Group’s performance. It is their continued 
dedication and commitment to the business which is integral 
to our success, together with a clear strategic plan.
We have implemented a new remuneration policy in line with that 
of a listed company, to ensure that the interests of the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management Team are aligned to those of 
our shareholders, with a significant portion of their remuneration 
being tied to performance targets. Further details of the new 
remuneration policy are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 50 to 62.
Health, safety and environment
The Group is committed to continuous improvement in health, 
safety and environmental matters, and our performance continues 
to be of a high industry standard. We remain diligent in monitoring 
and improving our processes and results.
Governance
The Group aims to comply with the high standards of corporate 
governance required of a company with a premium listing on the 
London Stock Exchange. We begin this new chapter as a public 
company with, what I believe to be, a very strong and experienced 
Board that brings together new appointees as well as Directors 
with historical knowledge of the companies within the Group 
and within our industries.
The new Board consists of our Chief Executive Officer, 
Ronnie George, who has a significant shareholding in the 
business and has been building the Group in recent years, 
and our Chief Financial Officer, Ian Dew, who has over 25 years’ 
experience in the building products industry. In addition to me, 
there are two newly appointed independent Non‑ Executive Directors, 
Tony Reading as our Senior Independent Director and chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and Paul Hollingworth, chair of the 
Audit Committee. Adrian Barden as an independent Non‑ Executive 
Director was already acting in such capacity prior to listing. Each 
director has been chosen to bring a range of public company, 
commercial and industry skills required to drive the business 
forward. Gavin Chittick represents our principal shareholder 
(Windmill Holdings B.V., who own 61.4% of the issued share 
capital), as a Non‑ Executive Director on the Board.
Outlook
Looking ahead, our performance in 2014 has given us a solid 
platform to build upon. We have a strong product offering with 
a number of trusted, well established brands. With a clear 
strategy and our depth of management experience, we remain 
confident that the business is well positioned for future growth, 
and we expect to make continued progress in 2015.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
23 October 2014
As the newly appointed Chairman 
of Volution Group plc, it is a privilege 
to introduce this, our first Annual 
Report and Accounts following our 
successful premium listing on the 
main market of the London Stock 
Exchange in June 2014.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
*  Organic growth is a like‑ for‑ like measure of business performance (also calculated 
at constant currency to eliminate translation effects on consolidation). It includes 
the growth of recent acquisitions over the like‑ for‑ like performance of the 
acquired business in the corresponding period, irrespective of ownership, 
expressed as a percentage of prior year reported revenue. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 04
At a Glance
Volution Group plc is a leading supplier of ventilation products with primary markets in 
the UK and northern Europe. We operate through two divisions: the Ventilation Group 
and OEM (Torin‑ Sifan).
Ventilation Group
The Ventilation Group consists of five key 
brands, Vent‑ Axia, Manrose, Fresh, PAX 
and inVENTer, focused primarily on the 
UK, Swedish, Norwegian and German 
ventilation markets. 
We are the market leader in the UK 
residential ventilation products market, 
the Swedish residential refurbishment 
ventilation products market and the 
German decentralised heat recovery 
residential ventilation systems market.
OEM (Torin-Sifan)
Torin‑ Sifan is a leading supplier of motors, 
motorised impellers, fans and blowers for 
the European HVAC industry. The majority 
of Torin‑ Sifan’s products are sold in the 
residential and commercial heating and 
ventilation products markets.
85.3%
53.0%
UK residential
Ventilation Group
16.0%
UK commercial 
21.2%
Nordics
14.7%
OEM (Torin-Sifan) 
UK overseas
6.6%
Germany
3.2%
% of Ventilation Group gross sales*
*  Gross sales is defined as invoiced sales before deduction of rebates and 
settlement discounts. This measure is used where the allocation of rebates 
and settlement discounts to market sectors is not currently possible.
% of Volution Group gross sales Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 05
Our history
1936
Joe Akester invents the Vent‑ Axia Silent 6, 
the world’s first Bakelite extractor fan
1964
Torrington Fan Company UK established 
in Swindon. It remains the Torin‑ Sifan 
head office to this day
1975
The first ventilation products developed 
by Gemla Plastic Industry AB
1987 Manrose Manufacturing starts trading
1990 Fresh AB purchased by Göran Atmer
1996
Manrose moves to Reading, UK, site and 
internalises the moulding of its plastics
1999
Öko‑ Haustechnik inVENTer GmbH starts 
manufacturing of inVENTer ventilation system
2003
Airstream Products Limited sold. Baxi Air 
Management division acquired. Manrose 
opens Slough assembly to increase capacity
2005
Öko‑ Haustechnik inVENTer GmbH sees 
first sales from activities overseas, Czech 
Republic and Slovakia
2007
Cable Management group sold. Manrose 
Manufacturing acquired by the Group
2010 Fresh AB acquires Fresh AS in Norway
2013 Volution Holdings acquires PAX AB
PAX started manufacturing 
ventilation products
1959
Torrington Fan Company was  
established in Connecticut, USA
1899
Gemla Plastic Industry AB founded by Gösta 
Nilsson. Torrington changes name to Torin
1969
Torin UK launches a range of EC motors that 
are sold widely to IBM and Xerox
1980
Gemla Plastic Industry AB  
changes name to Fresh AB
1988
Manrose internalises the  
assembly of the fan ranges
1991
Torin UK and Sifan Systems  
merge to form Torin‑ Sifan
1997
Volution Holdings formed in management 
buyout of the ventilation and cable 
management businesses from Smiths 
Group backed by Montagu private equity 
2002
Quartz Fan Coils sold 2004
AAC Capital and Management Team  
acquires Volution Holdings
2006
Ronnie George joins Volution Holdings 2008
TowerBrook acquires Volution Holdings 2012
Volution Holdings acquires the assets and 
business of Öko‑ Haustechnik inVENT er GmbH 
Volution Group plc is formed and listed 
on the London Stock Exchange
T orin‑ Sifan opens new EC Manufacturing and 
T echnology Centre in Swindon
 2014
2012 Volution Holdings acquires Fresh AB
2014
1899 Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 06
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Overview
I am delighted that Volution Group plc is now a listed public company, 
after having had several successful years of private equity ownership. 
With our listing, I believe we will have an even greater opportunity 
to implement the strategic plan, particularly in the area of continuing 
international growth through acquisitions. I am also highly appreciative 
of the support that we have had from our principal shareholder 
and our new investors, and their understanding and backing 
of our long‑ term vision.
Our results for 2014 were strong, reflecting growth both organically 
and through acquisitions. Revenue was up year‑ on‑ year by 18% 
at £120.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA grew strongly to £28.5 million 
or 23.6% of revenue, up 19.8% compared with 2013.
Two acquisitions were completed during the year, significant 
investment was made in new products, and a new production 
facility acquired and equipped at Torin‑ Sifan. We also saw good 
organic growth, especially in the important area of higher value 
ventilation systems used in new residential dwellings.
Ventilation Group: UK
In the UK market, the Ventilation Group achieved sales growth 
in all market sectors. The UK repair, maintenance and improvement 
(RMI) market that we split into both public and private areas of 
focus, continued to show recovery. Our focus on the quiet energy 
efficient solutions in demand in the private market did very well for 
us as did our initiatives to deliver improved ventilation with greater 
controls and functionality for public sector social housing. This 
was despite a backdrop of an overall general market decline.
In the new build residential market, we are starting to benefit from 
the positive effects of additional house completions. The house 
building industry and the social housing RMI market are both driven 
by regulation and consumer preference to construct homes that 
are more carbon and energy efficient. This has seen a move 
towards the use of centralised heating and ventilation systems 
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
 > Clear strategic plan to grow organically 
and through acquisitions
 > Strong results for 2014 reflecting 
growth both organically and 
through acquisitions
 > Two acquisitions completed in the 
year, significant investment made in 
new products and a new production 
facility opened at Torin‑ Sifan
 > Good organic growth, especially in the 
area of higher value ventilation systems 
used in new residential dwellings
 > Appreciative of the support from our 
principal shareholder and our new 
investors, and their understanding 
and backing of our long‑ term vision Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 07
that are designed to meet the required carbon emission reductions 
without loss of the benefits of air‑ tight construction. Sales growth 
in this area was up 11.2% in the financial year ended 2014 and 
we would expect this trend to continue in the coming years. 
As indoor air quality (IAQ) becomes even more of a concern in 
the future, the Group, with its wide range of brands and in‑ depth 
industry knowledge, is well placed to bring new ventilation 
solutions to the market to meet these growing requirements.
Ventilation Group: International growth through acquisitions
In August 2013, we acquired PAX in Sweden for a total cash 
consideration of £11.5 million. We now have a leading position 
in the Swedish market for ventilation refurbishment in residential 
dwellings. The integration of PAX has been successful and we 
have in place a very strong combined management team under 
the leadership of the country manager for the Nordic region.
The synergies provided by this acquisition have allowed us 
to develop a stronger sales approach to the Swedish market 
in trade and retail accounts across both the Fresh and PAX 
brands. We are actively pursuing further growth opportunities in 
the Nordic region with investments made in our sales teams to 
focus their attentions in the Norwegian, Danish and Finnish markets.
In April 2014, we acquired the assets and intellectual property of 
inVENTer for a cash consideration of £19.1 million. This was the 
culmination of our strategy to find the right acquisition in Germany. 
inVENTer has a leading position in the lucrative and fast growing 
heat recovery ventilation refurbishment market. The inVENTer 
brand has been trading for over 15 years and provides us with 
the ideal platform for further growth into other areas of the residential 
ventilation market in Germany. The integration of inVENTer is 
proceeding well.
At the time of the acquisition of inVENT er we were aware of a decline 
in sales to a small number of its larger customers. The purchase 
consideration was reduced accordingly. After acquisition, sales to 
these customers continued to decline, necessitating an impairment 
of our intangible asset, customer base (recognised at fair value 
at the time of acquisition). We have had growth in sales to other 
customers that were not included in the valuation of our customer 
base. Recovery of sales in the affected regions, the appointment 
of new sales agents, and the roll out of a new range of centralised 
heat recovery systems is an area of focus for us during the 
current financial year.
OEM (Torin-Sifan)
Torin‑ Sifan had a more challenging year due to the mild winter, with 
our sales of gas boiler combustion motors declining from the prior 
year. This area of the business will continue to be important to us. 
Over the last two years, we have made a significant investment in 
developing a new range of high performing air movement products 
that meet the energy efficiency demands placed on this industry. 
With these new electronically commutated (EC) products and 
the Group’s investment in a modern production site close to 
the well‑ established Torin‑ Sifan Swindon headquarters, we believe 
we are in a good position to ensure our long‑ term future growth.
Three strategic pillars 
Our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
 > organic growth in our core markets;
 > growth through a disciplined and value‑ adding acquisition 
strategy; and
 > to further develop Torin‑ Sifan’s range and build customer 
preference and loyalty.
In our core markets, we expect to continue to benefit from a 
favourable regulatory backdrop that focuses on reducing carbon 
emissions from buildings; the need for improving energy efficiency; 
and the emerging understanding of the importance of indoor air 
quality in the developed world. The Group will continue to gain 
from these market developments with our specialised approach 
to each market area. By building on our internal resources and 
focusing on product management and product development, this 
will enable us to deliver product and system solutions to meet 
customers’ needs.
The ventilation market in Europe remains highly fragmented and 
we intend to continue to explore selective acquisition opportunities 
to increase our international footprint. Our track record over the 
last two years of making acquisitions and successfully integrating 
them into our Group shows our ability to add new competencies 
and to expand into new markets and this serves us well for future 
acquisitions in the coming years.
I would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work 
demonstrated by our employees along with our management 
teams from across our Group companies. Our people are key 
to the success of the Group. I would like to thank them all for 
their support during this historic year and for their continued 
contribution to our success. 
These are exciting times for us as we move forward as a listed 
public company, with the stability and platform that it provides 
to us in achieving our strategic goals.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
23 October 2014
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board 
on 23 October 2014.
By order of the Board
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 08
Our Business Model
It is not one component of the Group’s business model that creates value, 
but a mixture of all of the elements that builds our compelling proposition 
and our strength in our core markets. 
Our key differentiators
We have four key differentiators that are 
our pivotal focus: Brands, Innovation, 
Scale and People.
Brands
Innovation
Scale
People Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 09
Brands
With our leading brands and products across 
multiple segments, we create high entry 
barriers for new competitors. 
By using the strength of our Group portfolio 
with our product categories and product 
ranges across the brands, we create 
opportunities and positions that are difficult 
to replicate. 
Brands in Action
> page 10
People
We understand the value that people bring 
to our organisation. Our people make the 
difference to our success and therefore 
a key focus for us is to identify and 
nurture talent. 
The Volution Management Development 
Programme provides a pathway for the next 
generation of leaders within our Group to be 
identified and is one of the key components 
of our human resource planning.
People in Action
> page 16
Innovation
It is our track record in developing higher 
specification, higher value and cutting‑ edge 
products that sees us recognised for our 
leadership in Innovation.
We pride ourselves in bringing higher value 
solutions to our customers. Whether it is 
a quieter, more desirable design of extract 
fan, or a more efficient heat recovery unit, 
we are always focused on improving the 
customer’s experience.
Innovation in Action
> page 12
Scale
With nine assembly and manufacturing plants 
in Europe, located in the UK, Sweden and 
Germany, we have the ability to increase 
production to meet growing demand.
In 2012, we brought the balance of our assembly 
capabilities back to the UK from China. 
This “re‑ shoring” decision was cost‑ neutral 
and enhanced the level of flexibility and 
responsiveness to our customers. We are 
now better placed to respond with speed 
to changes in demand and to manage 
our cost base more efficiently with our 
flexible workforce.
Scale in Action
> page 14 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 10
Strategic Report
Brands
Our brand portfolio is one of our strongest assets. It differentiates us and enables our customers 
to discriminate positively towards us. Our ability to manage products and categories across 
our brands allows us to occupy strong positioning within our core markets.
Brands in Action
Designer fans in the UK
The cultural and style trends within Sweden have enabled us to 
develop a range of extractor fans with unique and highly stylised 
aesthetics. The continuing success of products within the range, 
particularly the Intellivent 2.0 from our Fresh brand, has provided 
a learning exchange for other brands within the Group to introduce 
these aesthetics products into their markets. For example, Vent‑ Axia 
has recently introduced the Intellivent 2.0 product into the UK 
as the iQ fan.
This, along with some existing products from the Ventilation 
Group, has formed the building blocks for a completely new 
range of stylised, energy‑ efficient, silent‑ running fans. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 11
Decentralised heat recovery in Germany and Sweden
Within the Group, PAX has a decentralised heat recovery solution 
in the EOS product. 
At the same time, inVENTer specialises in decentralised, ceramic 
heat exchangers that provide easily installed, through‑ the‑ wall 
solutions that are ideal for refurbishment.
These two product ranges when combined complement each 
other and together form a unique proposition. PAX and inVENTer 
are able to share their product portfolios and their individual 
experiences and thus combine their new ideas into a complete 
product offer. 
Using the brands to develop a penetrative sales model
Our sales strategy is highly specialised for residential ventilation 
products in our core geographical markets of the UK, Sweden, 
Norway and Germany. The strategy targets each of the key decision 
makers in the value chain, ranging from distributors, specifiers, 
developers and local authorities. The range and depth of our 
brands allow us to establish price positions and specifications 
across different segments without conflicts.
The strategy comprises two distinct approaches, with members 
of the sales team focused on specific sales techniques, brands 
and sales channels. 
Sales representatives are organised within teams that focus on 
particular market opportunities, e.g. DIY and retail, trade distribution 
and refurbishment, commercial property, own label and national 
accounts. This ensures that sales teams are focused on both 
identifying and capitalising on the opportunities within their sector, 
whilst also benefiting from specialist knowledge to ensure higher 
standards of client service. It also results in multiple sales 
representatives covering specific accounts, to ensure penetration 
of our brands that are suitable for the specific sales channels.
This approach ensures that we get feedback directly from the 
customers and end users, enabling us to develop and shape 
our ideas further for the next generation of products.
 > ‘‘Pull-through’’ or specified demand: a ventilation solution 
chosen by the contractor or developer is defined by specification; 
hence, it is subject to influence from architects, consultants 
or other specifiers, including housing and tenant associations, 
national builders, developers and local authorities. The key 
element of this sales strategy is to focus on targeting specifiers’ 
needs and so create the “pull‑ through” demand. Demand for 
specified products is mostly specification led rather than price led. 
Specification is particularly prevalent in the residential and 
commercial new build sectors and social housing refurbishment 
where technical specification, functionality, performance and 
reliability are key requirements. 
 > ‘‘Push-through’’ demand: a contractor (or end user/customer) 
select products without direct third‑ party influence. This strategy 
drives sales through coverage of distributors such as electrical 
wholesalers, DIY retailers, industrial distributors and builders’ 
merchants, who have influence in determining the brands 
chosen for sales.  Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 12
Strategic Report
Innovation
The ventilation industry continues to evolve. Changes to European energy efficiency legislation 
and increasing consumer awareness regarding indoor air quality continue to have a positive 
influence on our markets. This brings new opportunities to make the most of our synergies 
across the Group and share our knowledge to innovate and develop products and 
approaches to meet these demands. 
Innovation in Action
Ventilation Group new product introductions
Key product introductions in the year included the new Intellivent 2.0 
from Fresh, Sentinel Kinetic 200ZP and Response fan from Vent‑ Axia 
and the Continuum fan from Manrose.
The Intellivent 2.0, launched in January 2014 has increased sales 
for what is one of Sweden’s leading DIY fans. The new upgrade 
increases airflow, reduces noise and simplifies maintenance.
The Sentinel Kinetic 200ZP is the first counterflow high efficiency 
low profile central heat recovery unit developed by the Group and 
supports the building industry’s growing demand for centralised 
ventilation systems. 
The Response fan from Vent‑ Axia is the first fan available that 
provides a display read‑ out of airflow and pressure loss. This 
circumvents the need for installers to carry out any post‑ installation 
testing so simplifying and speeding up the work on site. 
The Response was awarded Best Brand New Product of the Year 
in the prestigious Housebuilder Product Awards 2014.
The Continuum fan is the first continuous running extract fan 
launched under the Manrose brand. This fan is designed to be an 
alternative to using a noisier kitchen fan and operates at a lower 
level at all times so reducing the need for a high peak airflow 
when cooking.
Best brand new 
product of the year
in the Housebuilder Product Awards 2014 
awarded to the Vent-Axia Response Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 13
Using legislation for proactive 
market development 
Increasingly stringent environmental regulations are expected 
to drive structural growth in the ventilation product markets in 
which we compete. As a Group we are active members of trade 
associations in all the countries we have a major presence in and 
work hard to interpret the changes to legislation which drive our 
industry that will in turn add value to our Group. Being part of the 
dialogue allows us to adjust our product portfolio proactively as 
regulations change. We are also well placed to understand future 
trends in our industry and innovate accordingly.
 > In the UK we are members of British Electrotechnical and 
Allied Manufacturers’ Association (BEAMA) and Federation 
of Environmental Trade Associations (FETA).
 > In Sweden we are members of Svenska Grossistföreningen 
and Svenskventilation.
 > In Germany we are members of Fachverband für Gebäude 
und Klima (FGK), VFW Bundesverband für Wohnungslüftung 
e.V. NAThüringen Nachhaltigkeitsabkommen Thüringen 
(a regional organisation) and Gesellschaft für Technische 
Kommunikation e.V. 
Specialist skills and knowledge
Besides our own internal development team, Torin‑ Sifan works 
with a number of technical partners to broaden our research, 
development and innovation capabilities.
Collaborations with Southampton University, Newcastle University, 
and many other independent specialists have allowed us to 
benefit from new approaches such as the use of powerful new 
software that carries out complex analyses related to product 
efficiency mapping and electromagnetic finite element analysis.
This approach has added a new dimension to our thinking and 
also provided us with a challenging view about how we develop 
our concepts.
OEM (Torin-Sifan) new 
product innovations 
Also taking advantage of the regulatory environment, Torin‑ Sifan 
has been developing the next generation of low energy motors for 
EC fans targeting the residential ventilation market. Due for launch 
in the second half of 2015, the evolution 360 range will provide 
customers with reduced noise, greater energy efficiency and 
higher performance than has previously been available from 
the company.
Focus on indoor air quality 
and health
The legislative requirements for improvements in energy efficiency 
is seeing new builds with better insulation and improved air tightness 
and so increasing the importance of ventilation. We believe the 
ventilation industry has a responsibility to help inform consumers 
of the risks of insufficient ventilation and we have been working 
with BEAMA to develop an industry‑ wide campaign to build 
public awareness around air quality and health benefits. This 
campaign called the “my health, my home” campaign was 
launched in September 2014. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 14
Strategic Report
Scale
As the Group grows, the advantage in scale becomes even more apparent. 
The ability to scale operations allows us to secure supply for our increasing volume, 
as well as maximising sales opportunities through new product introductions and 
the sharing of Group resources and expertise.
Scale in Action
Meeting demand
Within the Ventilation Group, we have seven facilities that enable 
us to have fast, flexible responses to customers while ensuring 
scalability for increasing demand. 
Prior to acquisition, the PAX business sourced plastic components, 
mainly for the Passad fan, from an external trade moulder. Available 
capacity within the plastic moulding facility located within the Fresh 
site allowed us to transfer this PAX element in house. As well as the 
inherent cost saving and improved delivery reliability, the transfer 
has allowed us to share best practice in terms of plastic materials 
and plastic part design.
The inVENTer business opened a new purpose built production 
facility to replace a fragmented footprint. The new site, one of the 
most energy‑ efficient buildings of its type in Europe, has enabled 
the consolidation of activity and indirect labour efficiencies to 
be achieved.
In 2012 we actively re‑ shored the balance of our assembly capabilities 
back to the UK from China to be close to our key markets. The 
Reading facility provides us with a moulding resource annually in 
excess of 36 million unique plastic mouldings that are now able 
to be distributed quickly within our core European markets.
Over 36 million
unique plastic mouldings produced annually Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 15
OEM (Torin-Sifan) in action  
EC manufacturing facility
Building upon our long‑ serving employee base, we have been 
working closely with the local authority, Swindon Borough Council 
in the UK where Torin‑ Sifan’s headquarters (HQ) is based, to 
define a roadmap for expansion within an area recently defined 
as a technology development area spanning automotive, rail, 
telecoms and retail sectors. 
Stage one of this expansion has been successfully completed 
with Torin‑ Sifan locating operations for EC products within a new 
purpose‑ built lean manufacturing 25,000 sq ft facility that is within 
close proximity (four miles) of their existing HQ.
This new facility has the capacity to allow Torin‑ Sifan to double 
existing EC product volumes in this purpose‑ built quality and 
service‑ focused environment.
 
Infrastructure
Improvements to business infrastructure at Torin‑ Sifan have 
been a key goal during the year with significant investment 
in additional floor space to house our growing range of higher 
energy‑ efficiency EC products. We are well placed to respond 
to anticipated demand for these new products to meet the 
more stringent EU energy‑ efficiency legislation.
New product development and speed to market
A move to create a centre of excellence for technical development 
within the UK that serves the wider Group has progressed well 
during the year. This department provides support on product 
design, development and testing. Under the control of the 
Ventilation Group Technical Director, a new product development 
process has been standardised allowing each of the ventilation 
companies to follow a common format.
Best‑ in‑ class product design is regularly shared between 
the central technical department and the engineers working 
at the local sites. Product development roadmaps have been 
developed for each country in conjunction with local marketing 
and commercial representatives and this ensures products are 
developed in line with specific market requirements maximising 
the opportunities across our sales channels.
The central laboratory located in the UK received significant 
investment during this year to meet the requirements of the 
business going forward. The floor area has been expanded to 
allow for increased product throughput as well as measurement 
accuracy improved by upgrading many of the airflow, electrical and 
noise measurement devices. An upgraded chiller unit is on order that 
will allow the high volume production of air down to temperatures 
of ‑ 20 degrees Celsius. This temperature is important to ensuring 
product conformance for the Scandinavian markets. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 16
Strategic Report
People
Our people are our business. We passionately believe that our employees drive our organisation 
and individually help build our success. We are proud of our achievements and strive to create 
an environment where we recognise and develop talent within the organisation helping 
people realise their potential.
People in Action
Nurturing talent
The Group employs over 1,000 people in five countries across nine 
manufacturing sites. We recognise that a skilled and committed 
workforce is core to our Group’s success and we support and 
nurture our people by investing in their development to allow our 
people to grow and thrive in a rewarding environment. The Board 
has invested in a strong and experienced management team whose 
remit is to ensure the right people are in place across the Group’s 
companies. This is essential to our future ability to build strong 
relationships with our customers and partners.
The Group employs a diverse workforce and we pride ourselves in 
providing equal opportunities for all. We place high value on rewarding 
our people for their commitment, their integrity and their service. 
We aim to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly 
or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, 
sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, 
being part time or on the grounds of age. Our diversity is shown 
throughout the organisation where out of our 1,000 employees, 
34% are female and 22% of our senior staff are female. 
Graduate recruitment programme
We are focused on the retention and development of our employees, 
but at the same time recognise that introducing new talent is also 
important. Across the Group we have been developing closer 
links and relationships with universities with the aim of attracting 
graduates. As well as a structured development plan, our graduate 
recruitment programme provides structured internal and external 
training and induction programmes to help ensure retention. 
1,000+
employees
9
manufacturing sites Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 17
Management development 
programme 
The success of the Group’s future business relies on nurturing 
the leaders of tomorrow. During the year we saw the launch of 
our management development programme (MDP) that brought 
key employees from across the Group together to provide 
a perspective beyond their day‑ to‑ day operational activities. 
Facilitated by an external coach, the MDP provides the participants 
with a business challenge that enables them to explore causes and 
business impacts, identify and recommend specific improvements, 
implement solutions and quantify the return on investment.
The successful completion of this twelve month programme has 
resulted in key employees having a better understanding of the 
wider context within which they operate and the actions required 
to move the Group forward. There are plans to expand the MDP 
with the further identification of key talent.
Employee engagement
In Sweden, we have employee representatives on the local 
management board that ensure that there are good communication 
routes and the opportunity for direct employee feedback. This 
leads to very high staff retention rates and employee satisfaction. 
Across a number of companies within the Group, we also have 
annualised anonymous questionnaires that enable employees 
to provide feedback to the management teams and provide 
feedback to forums. 
An example of the positive impact good employee 
relations can have on engagement, over the past two years, 
Torin‑ Sifan has awarded 15 long‑ service awards ranging 
from 15 to 25 years. 
Quite simply, our people are our business and their drive 
and motivation makes the difference to our success.
Resources for the future – 
OEM (Torin-Sifan) 
T o support the next generation of UK engineers, T orin‑ Sifan actively 
supports the Engineering Development Council by participating 
in secondary school initiatives to encourage young people into 
engineering and in providing school leavers with a paid year 
in industry prior to choosing their university and subject. Our 
former school leaver secondees have found the experience 
invaluable and we have found that staying in contact with them 
means we are in a good position for them to choose us when 
they graduate.
Wider training for employees
We have an active performance review process including 
annual appraisals and training plans. This process allows for 
individual needs to be identified that are then complemented 
with skills development through online self‑ managed learning. 
We have also started to run English lessons for all staff within 
inVENTer to ensure that they can take an active role within the 
Group, as English is the common company language. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 18
Mechanical 
Ventilation with 
Heat Recovery 
(MVHR)
We provide ventilation solutions across a wide range of product categories. However, with 
homes across Europe becoming more airtight and better insulated, centralised, energy efficient 
heat recovery ventilation is one of the fastest growing categories.
The principle
MVHR is a whole dwelling ventilation system that supplies 
and extracts air continuously at a low rate with the facility to be 
boosted as required meeting building regulations across Europe.
The unit is normally installed in the loft space or cupboard. Using 
rigid ducting it supplies fresh filtered air to the habitable rooms 
(bedrooms, living areas) and extracts stale polluted air from the “wet” 
rooms (bathrooms, kitchens and WCs). Supply and extract diffusers 
are fitted to the ceilings and are adjusted to balance the system 
making sure the correct amount of air is provided in each area.
The unit incorporates a heat exchanger (see diagram opposite) 
that recovers the heat from the exhaust air and uses it to temper 
the incoming air before it is delivered to the habitable rooms. 
The efficiency of the heat exchanger can be up to 95%, so returning 
the majority of the heat back to the dwelling. This reduces the 
heat loss associated with ventilation providing the most energy 
efficient form of ventilation available.
Technology Highlight
Fresh incoming air
Warm incoming air
Extract air from the home
Stale air to outside
Fresh incoming air
Warm incoming air
Extract air from the home
Stale air to outside Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 19
Health benefits and customer interface
The units incorporate filters and run continuously providing fresh 
filtered air all day. The units have become increasingly sophisticated 
over recent years and we now have products certified in the UK, 
Germany and France meeting each countries stringent test standards.
There are a number of areas where we provide value to our 
customers through this device. The primary differentiators are 
around the way the units operate, with a range of sensors and 
remote switching options enabling customers to operate their 
ventilation in line with their lifestyles. 
We have unique frost protect cycles for very cold winters, highly 
customised summer bypass algorithms preventing over heating 
in the summer as well as a full suite of integrated and remote 
sensors including temperature, humidity and CO
2
.
With a new range of products currently under development, 
we will soon have what we believe to be the most advanced 
range of new generation devices available.
MVHR case study
Our Vent-Axia division will supply Sentinel Kinetic Plus 
ventilation units for the 414 flats in the Saffron Square 
development in Croydon, UK.
The Sentinel Kinetic Plus is a cutting‑ edge MVHR system 
designed for larger new build properties and light commercial 
applications. A whole house, multi‑ room ducted solution, this 
MVHR system combines supply and extract ventilation in one 
unit. Warm, moist air is extracted from “wet” rooms through 
ducting and passed through the heat exchanger before being 
exhausted to the outside. Fresh incoming air is preheated via 
the integral heat exchanger which recovers more than 90% 
of the heat energy that would otherwise be wasted.
We are delighted to be 
involved in such an exciting 
project. Saffron Square is one of 
a number of major developments 
we are working on. Heat recovery 
ventilation is a must for energy 
efficient developments, reducing 
excessive moisture in the air, 
combating condensation and 
subsequent mould growth and 
saving money on maintenance 
and decoration.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 20
Our Strategy
The three strategic pillars
We will continue to build on our core strengths and strong industry track record to gain 
further market share in each of our core geographical markets. We intend to achieve our 
goals through a combination of organic growth and selective acquisitions. To achieve this, 
we have identified three key strategic pillars.
Continue to grow through a focused sales strategy 
for each of our core market segments. Focus on 
opportunities arising from increasingly favourable 
regulatory environments and continue to build 
public awareness to create upselling opportunities 
to increase margins. Continue to develop new 
products, deliver benefits from recently acquired 
businesses, and drive cross‑ selling initiatives.
Actions
 > Drive demand growth of our core markets 
benefiting from regulation and educating 
end users
 > Bespoke sales and marketing strategy 
to address each market segment
 > Provide innovative products to address 
evolving market demand and generate 
upselling opportunities
Organic growth in our core markets
We will continue to seek to acquire and integrate 
select businesses, primarily, but not exclusively 
in the residential ventilation market. Our focus 
will be principally on opportunities in Europe 
where there are clear synergies.
Actions
 > Make acquisitions to establish leading 
positions in new markets
 > Deliver revenue and cost synergies 
from acquisitions
 > Increase cross‑ selling and export growth, 
replicating process in UK and Nordics
Growth through a disciplined and value-adding acquisition strategy
In the context of a favourable legislation‑ led shift 
towards more technologically advanced, more energy 
efficient and quieter EC/DC motorised impellers.
Actions
 > Development of technically superior 
new products
 > Expand new product development function 
and enhance customer responsiveness
Further develop T orin-Sifan’s range and build customer preference and loyalty Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 21
Achievements during FY14
 > Continued growth in our value‑ added product 
lines including the Lo‑ Carbon range
 > Further enhancement and growth of our sales 
teams across Europe
 > Launched new products in all key markets 
and channels
Focus for FY15
 > Range development maximising the opportunity 
of our new Enterprise Resource Planning System 
with initial implementation planned for the first 
half of 2015
 > Sharing experience across Group companies 
to continually improve sales planning
 > Introduce a new range of central heat 
recovery systems
Organic growth in our core markets
Achievements during FY14
 > Acquisition of PAX in Sweden and inVENTer 
in Germany
 > Introduction of Intellivent 2.0 which increased 
sales into the DIY market
 > Introduction of designer fans from Sweden 
in UK
Focus for FY15
 > Further integration of inVENTer within 
the Group
 > Implementation of cross‑ company synergies 
following FY14 acquisitions
 > Focus on decentralised systems in the Nordics
Growth through a disciplined and value-adding acquisition strategy
Achievements during FY14
 > Early prototyping of new range finalised
 > Development of the R&D team
Focus for FY15
 >  Launch of new motor platform
 > Integration of new platform into customers’ 
bespoke applications
Further develop T orin-Sifan’s range and build customer preference and loyalty Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 22
Key Performance Indicators
Financial Performance
Non-financial Performance
The Board has chosen a number of key performance indicators to measure the Group’s 
progress against our strategic plans. The key performance indicators are presented below.
Revenue
1
 £m
Tracks our performance against our strategic aim to grow 
the business
£120.7m
Comments
 > Strong sales development 
in the year
 > Two acquisitions in the year 
contributed significantly to 
our growth: PAX (Sweden) in 
August 2013 and inVENTer 
(Germany) in April 2014
 > Revenue growth was 18%
 > Organic growth on a 
like‑ for‑ like exchange rate 
basis was 5% 
Adjusted operating profit and  
adjusted operating profit margin
1,2
 £m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the Group
£26.5m (22.0%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability and margins
Employee retention %
To ensure we continue to retain employees, we monitor the 
number of voluntary resignations from our businesses and 
calculate the percentage retention as a function of total 
average full‑ time equivalent employees
93.5%
(2013: 93.7%)
Comments
 > The high level of staff retention 
continued in 2014
Sales of low-carbon products
Tracks our success at upselling and the effect of regulations 
on sales of more energy‑ efficient low‑ carbon products 
(value of low‑ carbon product sales expressed as a 
percentage of total sales)
43%
(2013: 37%)
Comments
 > The trend towards higher value 
added low‑ carbon products 
continues, supported by the 
acquisition of inVENTer
Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin
1,2
  
£m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the 
Group before depreciation
£28.5m (23.6%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability, margin improved 
slightly in the year
Adjusted profit before tax and 
adjusted profit before tax margin
1,2
 £m (% of revenue)
Tracks the underlying financial performance of the Group
£14.0m (11.6%)
Comments
 > Strong growth in underlying 
profitability and margins
2011
87.8
2012
89.3
2013
102.3
2014
120.7
2011
20.2 (23.1)
2012
21.6 (24.2)
2013
23.8 (23.3)
2014
28.5 (23.6)
2011
18.7 (21.3)
2012
20.2 (22.6)
2013
22.2 (21.7)
2014
26.5 (22.0)
2011
5.1 (5.8)
2012
6.3 (7.0)
2013
9.2 (9.0)
2014
14.0 (11.6) Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 23
Notes
1 Amounts for 2011 and 2012 have been restated to IFRS.
2  The Group uses some alternative performance measures to track and assess the underlying performance of the business. The Board considers that these 
measures which exclude exceptional and other unusual items give a more useful indication of the underlying performance of the business. These measures 
include adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating cash flow. 
3  Net debt is defined as bank borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt
3
 £m
To ensure we have an efficient capital structure with head 
room to support organic and inorganic growth
£42.9m
Comments
 > Re‑ financing at the time 
of listing, in June 2014, 
significantly reduced our 
leverage to the targeted level
 > Leverage (expressed as a 
ratio of net debt
3
 to adjusted 
EBITDA
2
) was 1.5x (2013: 7.1x)
42.9
Earnings per share (basic and diluted) p
To provide a measure of shareholder value 
(14.0)p
Comments
 > EPS reflects the capital 
structure under previous 
ownership and the substantial 
exceptional cost in the year, 
incurred largely as a result of 
the listing of the Company on 
the London Stock Exchange
Adjusted operating cash flow conversion
1,2
 %
Tracks the efficiency of cash generation (important for our 
acquisition strategy), after capital expenditure, at the 
operational level
86%
Comments
 > Good cash generation even 
after higher than normal capital 
expenditure of £4.5 million
Adjusted operating cash flow
2
 £m
Monitors cash generation (important for our acquisition 
strategy), after capital expenditure, at the operational level
£22.8m
Comments
 > Adjusted operating cash flow in 
2014 remained strong despite 
a significant increase in capital 
investment to £4.5 million 
(2013: £2.6 million)
2011
18.1
2012
21.2
2013
20.9
2014
22.8
2011
97
2012
105
2013
94
2014
86
2013
172.7
2014
2013 2014
(14.0)
(2.3) Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 24
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Mitigation
Economic risk
A decline in general economic activity  
and/or a specific decline in activity in  
the construction industry.
Demand for our products serving the residential 
and commercial RMI and new build markets would 
decline. This would result in a reduction in revenue 
and profitability.
Our ability to achieve our ambition for 
continuing organic growth would be  
adversely affected. 
Geographic spread from our international acquisition strategy helps to mitigate the impact  
of local fluctuations in economic activity.
New product development, the breadth of our product portfolio and the strength and 
specialisation of our sales forces should allow us to outperform the market against a 
general decline.
We are heavily exposed to the RMI market which is more resilient to the effects of general 
economic decline.
Our business is not capital intensive and our operational flexibility allows us to react quickly 
to the impact of a decline in volume.
Foreign exchange risk
The exchange rates between currencies  
that we use may move adversely.
The commerciality of transactions denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of our 
businesses and/or the perceived performance of 
foreign subsidiaries in our Sterling denominated Group 
accounts may be adversely affected by changes in 
exchange rates.
Our ambition to grow internationally through 
acquisition exposes us to increasing levels 
of translational foreign exchange risk.
Significant transactional risks are hedged by using forward currency contracts to fix 
exchange rates for the ensuing financial year.
Revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are partially hedged 
by corresponding foreign currency bank debt.
Acquisitions
We may fail to identify suitable acquisition targets at 
an acceptable price or we may fail to consummate 
or properly integrate the acquisition.
Revenue and profitability would not grow in line with 
management’s ambitions and investor expectations.
Failure to properly integrate a business may distract 
senior management from other priorities and adversely 
affect revenue and profitability.
Financial performance could be impacted by failure 
to integrate acquisitions.
Our strategic ambition to grow by 
acquisition may be compromised.
The ventilation industry in Europe is fragmented with many opportunities to court  
acquisition targets.
Senior management has a clear understanding of potential targets in the industry 
and a track record of three acquisitions over the past two years.
Management is experienced in integrating new businesses into the Group.
Innovation
We may fail to innovate commercially or technically 
viable products to maintain and develop our product 
leadership position.
Scarce development resource may be  
misdirected and costs incurred unnecessarily. 
Failure to innovate may result in an ageing 
product portfolio which falls behind that of  
our competition.
Our organic growth ambitions depend in part 
upon our ability to innovate new and improved 
products to meet and create market needs.  
In the medium term, failure to innovate may 
result in a decline in sales and profitability.
Our product innovation is driven by a deep understanding of the ventilation market 
and its economic and regulatory drivers. The Group starts with a clear marketing 
brief before embarking on product development.
The Group believes that the table below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties 
that our business faces. Occurrence of any of these risks may significantly impact 
the business or impair the achievement of our strategic goals. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 25
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Mitigation
Economic risk
A decline in general economic activity  
and/or a specific decline in activity in  
the construction industry.
Demand for our products serving the residential 
and commercial RMI and new build markets would 
decline. This would result in a reduction in revenue 
and profitability.
Our ability to achieve our ambition for 
continuing organic growth would be  
adversely affected. 
Geographic spread from our international acquisition strategy helps to mitigate the impact  
of local fluctuations in economic activity.
New product development, the breadth of our product portfolio and the strength and 
specialisation of our sales forces should allow us to outperform the market against a 
general decline.
We are heavily exposed to the RMI market which is more resilient to the effects of general 
economic decline.
Our business is not capital intensive and our operational flexibility allows us to react quickly 
to the impact of a decline in volume.
Foreign exchange risk
The exchange rates between currencies  
that we use may move adversely.
The commerciality of transactions denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of our 
businesses and/or the perceived performance of 
foreign subsidiaries in our Sterling denominated Group 
accounts may be adversely affected by changes in 
exchange rates.
Our ambition to grow internationally through 
acquisition exposes us to increasing levels 
of translational foreign exchange risk.
Significant transactional risks are hedged by using forward currency contracts to fix 
exchange rates for the ensuing financial year.
Revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are partially hedged 
by corresponding foreign currency bank debt.
Acquisitions
We may fail to identify suitable acquisition targets at 
an acceptable price or we may fail to consummate 
or properly integrate the acquisition.
Revenue and profitability would not grow in line with 
management’s ambitions and investor expectations.
Failure to properly integrate a business may distract 
senior management from other priorities and adversely 
affect revenue and profitability.
Financial performance could be impacted by failure 
to integrate acquisitions.
Our strategic ambition to grow by 
acquisition may be compromised.
The ventilation industry in Europe is fragmented with many opportunities to court  
acquisition targets.
Senior management has a clear understanding of potential targets in the industry 
and a track record of three acquisitions over the past two years.
Management is experienced in integrating new businesses into the Group.
Innovation
We may fail to innovate commercially or technically 
viable products to maintain and develop our product 
leadership position.
Scarce development resource may be  
misdirected and costs incurred unnecessarily. 
Failure to innovate may result in an ageing 
product portfolio which falls behind that of  
our competition.
Our organic growth ambitions depend in part 
upon our ability to innovate new and improved 
products to meet and create market needs.  
In the medium term, failure to innovate may 
result in a decline in sales and profitability.
Our product innovation is driven by a deep understanding of the ventilation market 
and its economic and regulatory drivers. The Group starts with a clear marketing 
brief before embarking on product development. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 26
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Mitigation
Supplies
Raw materials or components may become difficult 
to source because of material scarcity or disruption 
of supply. 
Sales and profitability may be reduced during the 
period of constraint.
Prices for the input material may increase and our 
costs may increase.
Organic growth may be reduced.
Our product development efforts may be 
redirected to find alternative materials 
and components.
We establish long‑term relationships with key suppliers to promote continuity of supply and 
where possible we have alternative sources identified.
People
Our continuing success depends on retaining key 
personnel and attracting skilled individuals.
Skilled and experienced employees may decide to 
leave the Group, potentially moving to a competitor. 
Any aspect of the business could be impacted with 
resultant reduction in prospects, sales and profitability.
Our competitiveness and growth potential, 
both organic and inorganic, could be 
adversely effected.
Regular employee appraisals allow two‑way feedback on performance and ambition.
A senior management development programme was initiated in 2013 to provide key 
employees with the skills needed to grow within the business and to enhance their 
contribution to the business.
The Group aims to reward and incentivise employees competitively.
IT systems
We may be adversely affected by a breakdown in 
our IT systems or a failure to properly implement any 
new systems.
Failure of our IT and communication systems could 
affect any or all of our business processes and have 
significant impact on our ability to trade, collect cash 
and make payments.
We could temporarily lose sales and market 
share and could potentially damage our 
reputation for customer service.
Disaster recovery and data backup processes are in place, operated diligently 
and tested regularly.
A significant Enterprise Resource Planning system upgrade is underway managed by 
a dedicated team of experienced senior employees from the business. A disaster failover 
site is being implemented to cover this upgrade.
Customers
A significant amount of our revenue is derived from a 
small number of customers and from our relationships 
with heating and ventilation consultants.
Any deterioration in our relationship with a significant 
customer could have an adverse significant effect on 
our revenue to that customer.
Our organic growth ambitions would 
be adversely affected.
We have strong brands, recognised and valued by our end users and this gives us 
continued traction through our distribution channels and with consultants and specifiers.
We have a very wide range of ventilation and ancillary products that enhance our brand 
proposition and make us a convenient “one‑stop‑shop” supplier.
We continue to develop new and existing products to support our product portfolio 
and brand reputation. 
We provide an excellent level of customer service.
Legal and regulatory environment
Changes in laws or regulation relating to the carbon 
efficiency of buildings or the efficiency of electrical 
products may change.
The shift towards higher value‑ added and more 
energy‑ efficient products may not develop as 
anticipated resulting in lower sales and profit growth.
If our products are not compliant and we fail to 
develop new products in a timely manner we may lose 
revenue and market share to our competitors.
Our organic growth ambitions may 
be adversely affected.
We may need to review our acquisition  
criteria to reflect the dynamics of a new 
regulatory environment.
We may have to redirect our new product 
development activity.
We participate in trade bodies that help to influence the regulatory environment in which 
we operate and as a consequence we are also well placed to understand future trends 
in our industry.
We are active in new product development and have the resource to react to and anticipate 
necessary changes in the specification of our products. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 27
Risk Impact Strategic consequence Mitigation
Supplies
Raw materials or components may become difficult 
to source because of material scarcity or disruption 
of supply. 
Sales and profitability may be reduced during the 
period of constraint.
Prices for the input material may increase and our 
costs may increase.
Organic growth may be reduced.
Our product development efforts may be 
redirected to find alternative materials 
and components.
We establish long‑ term relationships with key suppliers to promote continuity of supply and 
where possible we have alternative sources identified.
People
Our continuing success depends on retaining key 
personnel and attracting skilled individuals.
Skilled and experienced employees may decide to 
leave the Group, potentially moving to a competitor. 
Any aspect of the business could be impacted with 
resultant reduction in prospects, sales and profitability.
Our competitiveness and growth potential, 
both organic and inorganic, could be 
adversely effected.
Regular employee appraisals allow two‑ way feedback on performance and ambition.
A senior management development programme was initiated in 2013 to provide key 
employees with the skills needed to grow within the business and to enhance their 
contribution to the business.
The Group aims to reward and incentivise employees competitively.
IT systems
We may be adversely affected by a breakdown in 
our IT systems or a failure to properly implement any 
new systems.
Failure of our IT and communication systems could 
affect any or all of our business processes and have 
significant impact on our ability to trade, collect cash 
and make payments.
We could temporarily lose sales and market 
share and could potentially damage our 
reputation for customer service.
Disaster recovery and data backup processes are in place, operated diligently 
and tested regularly.
A significant Enterprise Resource Planning system upgrade is underway managed by 
a dedicated team of experienced senior employees from the business. A disaster failover 
site is being implemented to cover this upgrade.
Customers
A significant amount of our revenue is derived from a 
small number of customers and from our relationships 
with heating and ventilation consultants.
Any deterioration in our relationship with a significant 
customer could have an adverse significant effect on 
our revenue to that customer.
Our organic growth ambitions would 
be adversely affected.
We have strong brands, recognised and valued by our end users and this gives us 
continued traction through our distribution channels and with consultants and specifiers.
We have a very wide range of ventilation and ancillary products that enhance our brand 
proposition and make us a convenient “one‑ stop‑ shop” supplier.
We continue to develop new and existing products to support our product portfolio 
and brand reputation. 
We provide an excellent level of customer service.
Legal and regulatory environment
Changes in laws or regulation relating to the carbon 
efficiency of buildings or the efficiency of electrical 
products may change.
The shift towards higher value‑added and more 
energy‑efficient products may not develop as 
anticipated resulting in lower sales and profit growth.
If our products are not compliant and we fail to 
develop new products in a timely manner we may lose 
revenue and market share to our competitors.
Our organic growth ambitions may 
be adversely affected.
We may need to review our acquisition  
criteria to reflect the dynamics of a new 
regulatory environment.
We may have to redirect our new product 
development activity.
We participate in trade bodies that help to influence the regulatory environment in which 
we operate and as a consequence we are also well placed to understand future trends 
in our industry.
We are active in new product development and have the resource to react to and anticipate 
necessary changes in the specification of our products. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 28
Corporate Social Responsibility
Volution Group is founded upon the excellence of our people, products and technology. 
We are committed to operating in a manner that protects human rights, provides 
real opportunities for our employees, protects the environment and makes a positive 
contribution to the community.
Overview
We embrace a culture of continual improvement in all aspects 
of our business. We aim to understand and respond to the needs 
of shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, the communities 
in which we work and the wider public. 
We operate six manufacturing facilities in the UK, including our 
headquarters in Crawley. We also have two manufacturing facilities 
in Sweden and one in Germany. All of our operations work to the 
highest standards of quality, health and safety and environmental 
(HSE) management. A number of our Group companies have 
attained ISO 9001 (Quality Management System Standard) 
accreditation and the ambition is for the Group to achieve this 
across all of our companies.
Health and safety
We are committed to achieving and maintaining the highest 
standards in health and safety practice. An open culture towards 
HSE engages all employees and helps maintain our excellent 
safety record. We invest in specialist roles and training to support 
this process. Each employee and contractor is given information, 
instruction and the training necessary to enable safe working. 
All of our employees and contractors recognise that it is their 
legal duty to take reasonable care for their own safety and the 
safety of others in their work area with working safely a condition 
of employment.
Ethics
Through our supplier approval process, we endeavour to ensure 
that our goods, machinery, equipment and services are procured 
from organisations that treat their employees equally and fairly 
and in accordance with all local legislation. Where appropriate, 
we make sure that any materials used in the production of goods 
are from sustainable sources, subject to availability and value for 
money. In addition, we will ensure that any materials, equipment 
or machinery bought by the Group are produced in environments 
that ensure the health and safety of the local workforce.
Environment
We endeavour to limit our impact, as far as possible, on 
the environment within which we operate and also protect 
the environment that we all share. Across the Group, energy 
reducing initiatives are in place including using recycled plastics 
in manufacturing, recycling waste paper and cardboard and 
working with our customers to reduce waste on site. Low‑carbon 
products are also donated to environmental projects to 
demonstrate innovative energy reduction techniques.
Our product development programme is focused around our 
Low‑ carbon initiative, using technology which reduces power 
consumption and recovers, recycles and reuses energy that 
would otherwise be wasted. At all times we will produce products 
that are as energy efficient as possible and will continue to research 
and develop energy efficient solutions for the marketplace. This 
has been recognised independently through a number of awards 
from industry associations for our energy‑ efficient products.
A number of Group companies have attained ISO 14001 
(Environmental Management Standard) accreditation; the ambition 
for the Group is to achieve this across all of our companies.
To help reduce omissions in the UK, we offer participation in a 
bike‑ to‑ work scheme and in Crawley in the UK we have membership 
of a scheme providing staff with subsidised public transport to 
help reduce car journeys.
Community 
Integrity forms a fundamental part of our values and it is important 
to the Group that all employees conduct themselves in a professional 
manner at all times. Through the individual brands, we support 
local initiatives such as manufacturing and business forums and 
provide talks and training for local groups. Some of our manufacturing 
sites provide facilities for local communities to hold events, bringing 
the local community together in one place. Our brands support 
local sports teams such as football and ice hockey teams. 
Our people across all of our companies hold numerous events 
throughout the year in support of a variety of charities, donating 
funds raised to selected charities. These have included Children 
in Need in the UK. 
Within Fresh in Sweden we have also been working closely with 
Samhall for many years. The ambition of Samhall is to provide 
employment for individuals with impairment and this has seen 
Samhall working with Fresh to provide a team within the assembly 
area. Some of the employees have been with Fresh for a number 
of years (the longest achieving 15 years’ service). This relationship 
has been seen to be a great benefit to both employees and Fresh 
as a whole.
Education and training
For the fourth year running, we have been working with the EDT 
(Engineering Development Trust) to help inspire children and youths 
(male and female) to choose a future career in science and 
engineering. We have supported this in two ways.
First, we provide engineers to act as mentors during a ten week 
interactive project (Go4set) in secondary schools within the Swindon 
area. This is designed to change young people’s perception 
of what engineering is and to allow them to experience and 
understand some of the key associated skills. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 29
Second, we participate in the Year in Industry scheme that 
provides paid work placements for school leavers who have 
completed their A levels and want to experience industry before 
choosing their university and subject.
We are proud of our involvement in such a worthwhile scheme 
and plan to continue our involvement in the future.
In Germany, inVENTer produces a brochure for use during the 
training of installers by Gentner Verlag GmbH. The eight page 
brochure is targeted at installers at an early stage of their education 
so they are well trained on ventilation at the start of their careers. 
The brochure includes general information on ventilation, planning 
according to DIN 1946‑ 6 (the ventilation standard), the functional 
principle of decentralised ventilation and its advantages. 
At Volution Group, we work to uphold our company values and 
strive to enhance our contribution to our local communities, the 
environment and society at large.
Grow 
Our sales and profit, our people, our capability, capacity 
and our ambition. Grow our value and invest for the future.
Innovate 
Our products, services and solutions.
Customer service 
Strive for quality and excellence in everything we do.
Professional and reliable 
With customers, suppliers, colleagues, shareholders 
and all relationships.
Integrity 
Environmentally, socially and in our governance.
Commitment 
100% every day, everywhere.
Fun 
Enjoying what we do, respecting those around us.
Greenhouse gas emissions
As the Group is now listed on the London Stock Exchange we are 
required to measure and report our direct and indirect greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. As 
this is our first GHG emissions report in line with UK mandatory 
reporting requirements set out by the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), there is no comparative year.
The mandatory requirement is for the disclosure of the scope 
1 and 2 emissions only. These are direct emissions such as heating, 
vehicle fuel and indirect emissions, for example purchased electricity. 
Our total GHG footprint in line with DEFRA’s mandatory reporting 
requirement is shown in the table below.
Emissions data for year ended 31 July 2014
Emissions from
2014 
CO
2
e tonnes
Electricity, gas and other fuels 3,495
Petrol and diesel vehicle fuels 841
Refrigerants 106
Total footprint 4,442
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: 
CO
2
e tonnes per £m of revenue 36.80
Note that:
 > data collected is in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014. 
The conversion factors used are those published by DEFRA;
 > some extrapolation or estimation techniques have been used 
to calculate the Group footprint, specifically regarding the 
calculation of emissions from cooling units;
 > this is the Group’s first year of mandatory emissions reporting 
following listing on 23 June 2014 and therefore 2014 represents 
our base reporting year; and
 > the figures disclosed above for 2014 have been reviewed 
by BDO LLP .
GROWTH     INNOVATION     SERVICE     RELIABILITY     INTEGRITY     COMMITMENT     FUN     PROFESSIONALISM 
Our 
Company 
Values Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 30
Operational Review
Within the Ventilation Group, the increase in sales volume, coupled 
with the business objective to remain the leading supplier in terms 
of customer service to the market, has driven the requirement to 
increase production output from the various facilities.
The site at Crawley has seen an increase in production output 
of over 60% compared with financial year ended 31 July 2012. 
As well as an increase in residential fan sales this rise in output 
was due to the full year effect of the “re‑ shoring” exercise of six 
product ranges back from manufacturing assembly in the Far East. 
Both the assembly facility at Slough and the Dudley manufacturing 
sites achieved a 5% increase in production volume in the year. 
Residential fan sales drove the output from Slough and increased 
call‑ off for whole house MVHR (mechanical ventilation with heat 
recovery) product for Dudley.
Prior to acquisition by the Group, PAX sourced plastic components, 
mainly for the Passad fan, from an external trade moulder. Available 
capacity within the plastic moulding facility located at our Gemla 
site allowed the transfer of the PAX tools and the subsequent 
injection moulding of all of PAX plastic parts. As well as the reduced 
cost and improved delivery reliability, the transfer project has 
allowed a sharing of best practice in terms of plastic materials 
and plastic part design.
The launch of Intellivent 2.0 proved a major success for Fresh 
but the increased sales put pressure on the assembly cell output. 
Lean manufacturing loss reduction techniques were deployed 
within the cell and the output has increased over 30% per shift 
without adding any additional employees. Improvement work 
continues within this area and a study of the suitability of further 
automation is underway.
inVENTer opened a new purpose‑ built production facility in 
May 2014, bringing together production under one roof, to 
replace facilities spread over several sites. The site consolidation 
has already enabled indirect labour efficiencies to be achieved. 
Operational efficiency improvement work studies have begun to 
ensure this newly acquired company benefits from best practice 
benchmarking that regularly takes place across the Group.
Ventilation Group
Revenue £m
£101.3m 
(2013: £82.3m) Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 31
OEM (Torin-Sifan)
Revenue £m
£19.4m 
(2013: £20.0m)
As an existing and long‑ established manufacturer of electronically 
commutated (EC) products, Torin‑ Sifan clearly understands the 
growing influences of low‑ carbon EU legislation on the heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) markets. Having reassessed 
the European market in terms of competition, it has recognised 
the opportunity to satisfy the increasing market demand for a 
capable and service oriented original equipment manufacturer (OEM) 
supply partner. This supply partner should have the experience and 
capability to develop and manufacture complex EC products that 
satisfy the need for highly efficient, quiet and controllable air movement 
products for residential and commercial HVAC applications.
To validate this view, in October 2012 we undertook a market 
research programme with an extensive study into the application 
requirements, technology needs, demand volumes, and appetite 
for alternative supply partners with over 20 leading European 
manufacturers of HVAC equipment. The positive results of this 
survey confirmed Torin‑ Sifan’s view of market demand for high 
performing air movement products that meet the performance 
demands of today’s pressure‑ hungry extract and heat recovery 
continuous whole house ventilation systems. This kick‑ started 
a programme to recruit the necessary skills and resources to 
embark on the development of a range of EC motor impellers 
targeted to provide market‑ leading performance. 
We also recognised that in order to maximise the opportunity in 
this market, we would need to increase our available production 
capacity. Therefore, in tandem with the new product developments, 
Torin‑ Sifan also implemented a complementary infrastructure 
extension and improvement programme that resulted in the creation 
of a new 25,000 sq ft manufacturing facility purpose‑ designed 
upon lean manufacturing foundations to meet the quality and 
service requirements demanded for EC products using complex 
electronic technology. As we now move from the development 
phase to implementation, we have already turned to engaging 
potential customers and planning the European launch of our 
EC product range at the forthcoming industry’s primary trade 
gathering at the ISH (International Sanitary and Heating) trade 
fair in Frankfurt. This will provide the perfect industry opportunity 
for Torin‑ Sifan to confirm its position as an OEM that is ready 
for low‑ carbon product growth.
Continual improvement
Continual improvement activity within the operations department 
of the Group is focused on improving the customer experience, 
in both service and product quality and reliability.
Various multi‑ department forums are in place to review product 
reliability in the field. Experiences of the end customer (as well 
as product installers) are collected and considered as valuable 
input into new product design as well as design changes that 
may be considered to in‑ market products. During the financial 
year ended 2014, the Ventilation Group established an IMP 
(in‑ market product) technical team in the UK to enhance the 
customer experience. The IMP team also supports the local 
manufacturing facilities in driving forward their productivity 
improvements, thus increasing production capacity and 
reducing product cost. A significant labour productivity 
improvement was realised when the new inVENTer production 
facility was opened. The new facility allows the full manufacturing 
process to be conducted under one roof therefore reducing 
non‑ value added activities and also improving the efficiency 
of our labour force. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 32
Financial Review
Trading performance
Group revenue in the year was £120.7 million, an 18.0% 
increase compared with the prior year. This comprised 3.2% 
organic growth (5.2% on a like‑ for‑ like currency basis), with 
14.8% the result of acquisitions.
Our Ventilation segment’s revenue was £101.3 million in the year, 
a 23.1% increase on prior year (25.7% on a like‑ for‑ like currency 
basis). Inorganic growth came substantially from the acquisition 
of PAX in Sweden which was completed in August 2013 and 
was supported by the full year effect of the Fresh acquisition 
in October 2012 and the more recent acquisition of inVENTer 
in Germany in April 2014. 
The Group is enjoying strong demand for our ventilation products, 
especially newer, higher value‑ added ventilation systems. Organic 
growth was helped by an increase in new build residential systems 
sales in the UK with an 11.2% growth in new build residential 
applications. Growth in the UK residential refurbishment sector 
was 2.8%; in the UK commercial sector, growth was 5.2% and 
exports from the UK grew by 2.0%.
Our OEM (Torin‑ Sifan) segment revenue was £19.4 million in the 
year and has declined by 2.9% mainly as a consequence of lower 
sales of spare parts for non‑ condensing boilers during the recent 
mild winter. There is a correlation between mild winters and lower 
sales of these replacement parts.
Our underlying result, as measured by adjusted EBITDA, was 
£28.5 million, 23.6% of revenues, a £4.7 million improvement 
compared to the prior year, as the Group benefited from 
the recent acquisitions in the Ventilation segment. The new 
acquisitions all contributed to profit. In addition, cost reductions 
and other synergy benefits were secured in our newly acquired 
Swedish businesses.
The Group’ s reported loss before tax in the year was £15.5 million 
compared to a loss of £4.2 million in the prior year. The reported 
result for the year has been significantly impacted by:
Ian Dew
Chief Financial Officer
Key highlights
 > Successful listing on the London Stock 
Exchange on 23 June 2014
 > Strong revenue growth of 18% 
 > Acquired two businesses, PAX (Sweden) 
and inVENTer (Germany), in the year
 > Strong growth in underlying profitability 
and improving margins
 > Closing debt leverage of 1.5x following 
re‑financing at the time of listing Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 33
 > exceptional items:
 > costs directly related to the IPO process, £5.5 million 
(2013: £nil);
 > expenses incurred as a consequence of the two 
acquisitions in 2014, £1.1 million (2013: £1.9 million); 
 > re‑ structuring, integration of acquisitions and other 
exceptional costs, £1.2 million (2013: £0.9 million); and
 > other significant costs:
 > amortisation of intangible fixed assets (customer base 
and trademarks) recognised at fair value on acquisition 
of the Group and of our subsidiaries, £11.1 million 
(2013: £10.1 million);
 > the impairment, in inVENTer, of the value of our intangible 
asset customer base, £1.9 million; 
 > the cost of two re‑ financing exercises in 2014 and the write 
off of unamortised costs from re‑ financing in December 2013, 
£8.3 million (2013: £0.6 million); and
 > finance expenses relating to the higher level of gearing in 
the eleven months prior to listing which will substantially 
reduce in the coming financial year.
Acquisitions
The Group’s trading benefited in the year from the full year effect 
of the acquisition of Fresh in Sweden, acquired in October 2012, 
and from the acquisitions in the year of PAX in Sweden and 
inVENTer in Germany. The effect of the acquisitions was additional 
gross sales of £16.4 million (before rebates and settlement 
discounts), representing 14.8% inorganic growth in revenue.
In October 2012, Fresh was acquired for a total cash consideration 
of £7.5 million. Fresh is one of Sweden’s leading suppliers of 
residential ventilation products, including fans, systems, wall vents, 
ducting systems and fittings. Fresh products are distributed 
primarily through Swedish retail DIY outlets. During the financial 
year ended 2013, Fresh was consolidated into the Group result 
for ten months.
In August 2013, PAX was acquired for a total cash consideration 
of £11.5 million. PAX is a leading supplier of ventilation products, 
towel rails and oil‑ filled radiators in the Swedish market primarily 
through the trade wholesale channel. In the financial year ended 
2014 PAX was consolidated into the Group result for eleven months.
In April 2014, inVENTer was acquired for a cash consideration 
of £19.1 million. inVENTer is a leading supplier of decentralised 
heat recovery ventilation systems for new build and refurbishment 
applications in residential dwellings in Germany. In 2014, inVENTer 
was consolidated into the Group result for three months.
During the year, continuing integration of the Swedish businesses 
and associated operational and organisational synergies have 
enhanced revenue, profitability and margins.
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items, by virtue of their size, incidence or nature, 
are disclosed separately in order to allow a better understanding 
of the underlying trading performance of the Group. These items, 
which totalled £7.8 million in 2014 (2013: £2.8 million), include 
costs incurred as a consequence of the IPO, costs associated 
with the acquisitions of Fresh, PAX and inVENTer, costs associated 
with inventory fair value adjustments at the time of acquisitions and 
costs associated with the re‑ organisation of businesses following 
acquisition. Details of these and other exceptional items can be 
found in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Board believes that the performance measures, adjusted 
EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before 
tax, stated before deduction of exceptional items, give a 
clearer indication of the underlying performance of the business. 
A reconciliation of these measures of performance to profit before 
tax is summarised in the table above and detailed in note 10 
to the consolidated financial statements.
2014 2013 Movement 
Revenue (£m) 120.7 102.3 18.0%
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m) 28.5 23.8 19.7%
Adjusted operating profit
1
 (£m) 26.5 22.2 19.4%
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 (£m) 14.0 9.2 51.9%
Reported loss before tax (£m) (15.5) (4.2) —
Basic and diluted EPS
2
 (p) (14.0) (2.3) —
Adjusted operating cash flow
3
 (£m) 22.8 20.9 9.1%
Net debt
4
 (£m) 42.9 172.7 £(129.8)m
The Group uses some alternative performance measures to track and assess the underlying performance of the business. These measures include adjusted EBITDA, 
adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating cash flow. 
Notes
1. Details of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax can be found in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
2. Details of earnings per share can be found in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
3.  Adjusted operating cash flow can be defined as adjusted EBITDA plus or minus movements in operating working capital, less net investments in property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets (including cash held in escrow).
4. Net debt is defined as bank borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 34
Financial Review continued
Exceptional items continued
In addition to exceptional items, four other categories of expense 
are highlighted in order to clarify the underlying performance of 
the Group:
 > on acquisition of a business, we obtain an independent 
valuation of identifiable acquired intangible fixed assets, 
such as trademarks and customer base, and recognise 
these assets in our consolidated statement of financial 
position; we then amortise them over their useful lives. 
In the year, the amortisation charge of these intangible 
assets was £11.1 million and is explained fully in note 18 
to the consolidated financial statements; 
 > as a consequence of a decline in sales to our larger customers 
in inVENTer, the value of our intangible asset customer base, 
was reassessed to be £5.4 million as at 31 July 2014, an 
impairment of £1.9 million. Actions are in place to recover sales 
in affected areas and sales growth in our smaller customers 
is partly offsetting the decline in our larger customers;
 > as a consequence of the re‑ financing at the time of listing we 
expensed, as part of finance cost, £8.3 million (2013: £0.6 million) 
of third party bank re‑ financing costs incurred in relation to 
capital re‑ structurings in February 2012, December 2013 and 
June 2014. Details can be found in note 9 to the consolidated 
financial statements; and
 > at each reporting period date we re‑ measure the fair value 
of financial derivatives and recognise any gains or losses 
immediately in finance cost. In the year we recognised a cost 
of £0.2 million (2013: £0.4 million). Details can be found in 
note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Finance revenue and cost
Finance costs of £21.2 million in the year (2013: £14.1 million) 
largely reflect the interest cost of the pre‑ listing financial structure 
prior to 17 June 2014. Prior to listing the business was under 
private equity ownership and was predominantly financed by 
bank borrowings and senior unsecured debt (investor loan notes). 
On listing we undertook an extensive capital re‑ structuring: all 
investor loan notes totalling £91.7 million were converted to equity 
and £61.9 million of the proceeds from the issue of new shares 
was used to repay bank debt, thus reducing the interest cost 
significantly for the last six weeks of the year and for future periods.
Finance costs include the write off of accumulated third party 
bank financing costs, mentioned above, of £8.3 million.
Taxation
The net income tax credit of £1.3 million (2013: £2.1 million credit) 
consists of current income tax expense arising from the standard 
rate of corporation tax in each country where our businesses are 
incorporated and tax resident, as adjusted for permanent and 
temporary timing differences and the effect of changes in tax rate. 
As a consequence of establishing, at the time of acquisition, the fair 
value of our identifiable intangible assets (trademarks and customer 
base) we also recognised a corresponding deferred tax credit which 
is credited against income tax expense in line with the corresponding 
amortisation of the intangible assets to which it relates. 
Full details of the Group net tax credit can be found in note 14 
to the consolidated financial statements.
Operating cash flow
The Group continued to be cash generative in the year with 
adjusted operating cash inflow of £22.8 million (2013: £20.9 million). 
This represents a cash conversion, after capital expenditure of 
86% (2013: 94%). The decrease in cash conversion is largely 
explained by an increase in capital expenditure on an ERP system 
upgrade of £0.8 million (2013: £0.5 million), which is currently 
underway, and significant new product development projects. 
The Group continues to manage its working capital efficiently 
with operating working capital representing 15.3% of revenue 
(2013: 13.9%). The increase in the working capital percentage 
of revenue can be largely explained by the additional working capital 
of inVENTer, with only three months of corresponding revenue.
Net debt and re-financing
Net debt as at 31 July 2014 was £42.9 million (2013: £172.7 million) 
made up of bank borrowings of £53.9 million (2013: bank borrowings 
£71.6 million, investor loan notes £117.0 million) offset by cash 
and cash equivalents of £11.0 million (2013: £15.9 million). 
Explanation of adjusted measures of profitability
(See note 10 to the consolidated financial statements)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Reported loss before tax (15.5) (4.2)
Exceptional items 7.8 2.8
Amortisation of financing costs and other finance costs 8.6 0.5
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles (customer base and trademarks) 13.1 10.1
Adjusted profit before tax 14.0 9.2
Net interest payable 12.5 13.0
Adjusted operating profit 26.5 22.2
Depreciation and other amortisation 2.0 1.6
Adjusted EBITDA 28.5 23.8 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 35
During the year there was a considerable amount of capital 
re‑structuring. 
In December 2013, the debt facilities were extended by £41.1 million, 
which were drawn down to repay a portion of the loan notes held 
by the principal shareholder (Windmill Holdings B.V.) and certain 
of our other shareholders and Directors on a pro‑ rata basis 
(£40.0 million was repaid using a combination of these new 
borrowings (net of fees) and £2.8 million of cash on balance sheet).
In April 2014, £10.6 million of our bank acquisition facility was 
drawn upon and £8.0 million of additional investor loan was 
secured in order to partly finance the acquisition of inVENTer.
On listing in June 2014, the Group converted all of its £91.7 million 
investor debt into share capital and premium. Also on listing, the 
proceeds of the primary offer of £72.0 million were used to pay fees 
associated with the listing (£7.5 million paid in the year, of which 
£5.1 million was disclosed as part of exceptional items and 
£2.4 million was treated as a deduction from share premium) 
and repay £61.9 million of bank borrowings, leaving an additional 
£2.6 million of cash on the balance sheet to provide additional 
finance headroom. Following the capital re‑ structuring at listing, 
Group debt is exclusively third party bank borrowings and our 
closing net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio is 1.5x.
Movements in net debt position
£m
Opening net debt (172.7)
Movements from normal business operations
– adjusted operating cash flow 22.8
– interest paid/accrued (12.6)
– income tax paid (3.2)
– exceptional items (0.8)
– other (1.9)
Movements from acquisitions
– acquisition consideration (29.8)
– acquisition costs (0.9)
Movements from the IPO
– conversion of investor debt to equity 91.7
– share issue proceeds 72.0
– IPO costs (7.5)
Closing net debt (42.9)
Bank facilities and liquidity
The Group’s bank facilities, post‑ listing, consist of fully drawn term 
loans of £53.9 million, a revolving credit facility (RCF) of £13.0 million 
(of which £1.5 million is allocated to cover bank guarantees, letters 
of credit and foreign exchange) and an unutilised approved acquisition 
facility of £20.0 million. The RCF must be cleared down to £9.0 million 
for five days once every twelve months. The term loans are repayable 
in full in February 2019. As at 31 July 2014 we had £11.5 million 
of undrawn committed bank facilities and a £20.0 million 
acquisition facility in addition to £11.0 million cash and cash 
equivalents on the balance sheet.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in the foreign 
currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies 
other than the functional currency of our operating businesses. 
We have significant Euro income in the UK which is largely balanced 
by Euro expenditure. For US Dollars we have little income but 
significant expenditure. Our policy is to limit our transactional foreign 
exchange risk by purchasing the majority of our forecast US Dollar 
requirements for, and in advance of, the ensuing financial year.
We are also exposed to translational currency risk as the Group 
consolidates foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities, income 
and expenditure into Group reporting denominated in Sterling. 
We have hedged against the translation risk for Fresh and PAX 
by redenominating £20.5 million of our bank borrowings to SEK 
(value at 31 July 2014 was £17.8 million). We have partially hedged 
our translational risk for inVENT er by having Euro denominated bank 
borrowings to the amount of £10.0 million as at 31 July 2014. 
We do not hedge the results of overseas subsidiaries.
During the year the average exchange rate between GBP and 
Swedish Krone moved adversely compared to 2013, from 10.23 
to 10.76. This had a negative effect on the reported revenue and 
profitability of our Swedish operating companies when translated to 
GBP for consolidation. If we had translated the 2014 performance 
of our Swedish businesses at the 2013 exchange rate our 
reported Group revenues would have been £1.9 million higher.
Equity structure
Immediately prior to listing, the Group implemented a capital 
re‑ organisation. The existing shareholdings of the Group were 
converted to one class of share in Volution Group plc. Investor 
loan notes, and associated accrued interest, were converted to 
shares in Volution Group plc and a further 48 million new shares 
were issued for sale to new investors. The proceeds of the primary 
issue of 48 million shares at £1.50 each was £72.0 million. This was 
used primarily to pay down our bank borrowings and pay for the 
costs of the listing. 
Immediately upon listing, the equity structure consisted of 200 million 
ordinary shares with a nominal value of £0.01 each. Following listing, 
Volution Group plc underwent a court‑ approved capital reduction 
to cancel £57.6 million of share premium and create a corresponding 
amount of distributable reserves. This was completed before the 
end of the financial year.
Earnings per share
The basic and diluted loss per share for the year was 14.0 pence. 
This reflects the capital structure under previous ownership, which 
was highly indebted for the majority of the year, and the substantial 
exceptional cost in the year, incurred largely as a result of the listing 
of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
Ian Dew
Chief Financial Officer
23 October 2014 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 36
Introduction to Governance
Dear shareholder
On 23 June 2014 the Company achieved an important milestone in its history with 
a successful listing on the London Stock Exchange. I would therefore like to welcome 
you to our first Governance Report as a listed company.
The ordinary shares of Volution Group plc (Company) were admitted 
to the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by 
the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange on 23 June 2014 (Listing). The Board recognises the 
importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate 
governance and all Directors are fully aware of their duties and 
responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules. 
Save as set out in this report, the Board considers that the Company 
has complied with the requirements of the Code from Listing to the 
financial year end on 31 July 2014.
The Company implemented a robust governance structure ahead 
of Listing to ensure compliance with the Code. A demonstration of 
the importance the Company places on corporate governance is 
given by the fact that although the Company is part of the FTSE 
SmallCap Index, a number of the Code provisions implemented 
are those only required by larger FTSE 350 companies. 
The following are some key highlights:
 > the Board consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors, 
me as Non-Executive Chairman (deemed independent on 
appointment), one non-independent Non-Executive Director 
and two Executive Directors;
 > each Non-Executive Director has a proven track record in business 
at a high level and expertise of relevance to the Company;
 > the interests of the Company’s Executive Directors as 
shareholders are aligned closely with those of other shareholders;
 > the Board and its Committee structure, as required for a listed 
company, have been implemented. The Non-Executive Directors 
have provided critical challenge and support to the areas of the 
Group which they believe are of particular importance; and
 > we will review regularly, and implement as necessary, any 
developments in corporate governance best practice and 
seek to apply them appropriately to the Company.
We undertook a formal process to identify suitable independent 
Non-Executive Directors to appoint on Listing. In addition to me, 
there are two newly appointed independent Non-Executive Directors, 
Tony Reading as our Senior Independent Director and chair 
of the Remuneration Committee and Paul Hollingworth, chair 
of the Audit Committee. Adrian Barden joined us in 2012 as 
an independent Non-Executive Director of the then holding 
company, Windmill Topco Limited, and was appointed as an 
independent Non-Executive Director of the Company at Listing. 
Gavin Chittick has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director 
on the Board and represents Windmill Holdings B.V., our principal 
shareholder, and is therefore not independent. Each Director has 
been chosen to bring a range of public company, commercial 
and industry skills required to drive the business forward.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 37
Governance Report
Prior to Listing, the Directors provided the Company with advice 
and assistance and also received corporate governance training 
from our external legal advisers. A full induction programme, including 
visits to the different subsidiaries, markets and production plants 
in the Group, is underway. 
Deloitte LLP was engaged as our remuneration adviser prior to Listing. 
It advised on the remuneration policy which sets out the Group’s 
forward-looking policy on the remuneration of Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and is set out on pages 52 to 58 of 
this report.
The focus of the Board during the current financial year ending 
31 July 2015 is to support the growth strategy of the Group and 
to strengthen the existing corporate governance policies. I believe 
the Board is well placed to challenge robustly the proposals put 
before it and to provide independent oversight.
The Group has the principles of transparency and openness at the 
heart of its culture and we are committed to high standards in 
corporate governance. We firmly believe that corporate governance 
structures and processes will help our business to perform in a 
more efficient and competitive way in the marketplace and will 
lead to strong relationships with all our stakeholders. 
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
23 October 2014
Board composition
 Executive 2
 Non-Executive Chairman 1
 Independent Non-Executive 3
 Non-independent Non-Executive 1
Company structure
Audit Committee
Members:
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Nomination Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
Three independent  
Non-Executive Directors
Volution Group plc Board Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 38
Board of Directors
Peter Hill, CBE 
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed 23 June 2014
Peter joined the Board on Listing as Non-Executive 
Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Peter has extensive experience of this role, having 
been non-executive chairman of Alent plc since 
September 2012. In addition, he acts as a non-executive 
director of Essentra plc and of the Royal Air Force 
and has previously acted in such capacity on the 
boards of Cookson Group plc, Meggitt plc and 
Oxford Instruments plc, and was a non-executive 
board member of UK Trade and Investment. He also 
has substantial experience in executive roles, having 
been chief executive of Laird PLC from 2002 until late 
2011, an executive director of Costain Group plc and 
a senior manager at BTR plc (subsequently Invensys plc). 
N R
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed 15 May 2014
Ronnie joined in 2008 as Managing Director of 
Vent-Axia Division (now the Ventilation Group) and 
a director of our then holding company, Volution 
Holdings Limited, and was appointed our CEO and a 
director of our then holding company, Windmill Topco, 
in February 2012. He has over 25 years’ experience 
in the industry and, prior to joining us, served as the 
managing director of Draka UK, a £200 million turnover 
business with c.450 employees focusing on electric 
cable production for construction, where he had full 
financial and operational responsibility for the UK 
business. Latterly he also served as the president of 
Draka’s global marine, oil and gas division, reporting 
directly to the Draka CEO.
Ian Dew
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed 15 May 2014
Ian joined in 2012 in Consultant Services before 
being appointed Business Improvement Director and 
subsequently our CFO in January 2014, becoming a 
director of our then holding company, Windmill Topco, 
in April 2014. He has over 25 years’ experience in the 
industry and, prior to joining us, held the position of 
group finance director (industry and speciality group) 
at Draka Holding N.V, where he had previously been 
divisional financial controller in the company’s marine, 
oil and gas division. He has also served as finance 
director of Draka UK and Transplastix Limited.
Committee membership
A
 Audit Committee
N
 Nomination Committee
R
 Remuneration Committee
X
 Chairman of Committee Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 39
Governance Report
Anthony Reading, MBE 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed 23 June 2014
T ony joined the Board on Listing as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Prior to joining us, he 
was a non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc, 
Laird PLC, e2v technologies plc, Spectris plc and 
George Wimpey plc. He was previously an executive 
director of Tomkins plc and chairman and chief 
executive of Tomkins Corp. USA. 
A N R
Adrian Barden 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed 23 June 2014
Adrian joined in 2012 as an independent Non-Executive 
Director of our then holding company, Windmill Topco. 
Adrian’s other assignments include being a board 
member of Sanitec Corporation, a leading European 
manufacturer of bathroom ceramics, and CEO of 
Blue Burgee Ltd. Adrian was previously chairman 
of the Construction Products Association and 
chief business development officer of Wolseley plc.
A N R
Paul Hollingworth 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed 23 June 2014
Paul joined the Board on Listing as an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Paul is currently a non-executive 
director and chairman of the audit committee at 
Electrocomponents plc. Prior to that he headed 
the finance function and served on the boards at 
a number of UK listed public companies, including 
Thomas Cook Group plc, Mondi Group, BPB plc, 
De La Rue plc and Ransomes plc. 
A N R
Gavin Chittick
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed 15 May 2014
Gavin joined in 2012 as a Non-Executive Director of 
our then holding company, Windmill T opco, following 
his nomination by T owerBrook Capital Partners (TCP). 
He is an operating director at TCP and provides 
operational management support to portfolio and 
prospective investee companies. Prior to joining 
TCP , he was chief executive of EuroPlex BV, an 
international cinema operator. Over more than 
25 years, Gavin has gained extensive board-level 
management experience in various sectors. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 40
Corporate Governance
Overview
This report sets out the Company’s governance structure and how it complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), 
published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council and also includes items required by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (DTRs). The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.frc.org.uk. The disclosures in this report relate 
to our responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, including compliance with the Code to the extent required, our 
report on the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems, and the functioning of our committees.
Compliance with the Code 
Prior to our Listing on the London Stock Exchange in June 2014, the Company had no obligation to comply with the requirements of 
the Code and therefore, given the short period of time from Listing to the financial year end on 31 July 2014, it has not been possible, 
or necessarily relevant, for all of the provisions of the Code to have been complied with. The Directors consider that the Company has, 
on Listing and subsequently, complied with the provisions of the Code with the following exceptions:
Code provision Code wording Explanation of non-compliance
A.4.2 “The chairman should hold meetings with the 
non-executive directors without the executives 
present. Led by the senior independent director, 
the non-executive directors should meet without 
the Chairman present at least annually to appraise 
the chairman’s performance and on such other 
occasions as are deemed appropriate.” 
Four independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed 
to the Board on Listing on 23 June 2014. In the short period 
of time to the end of the financial year on 31 July 2014, 
it was neither practical nor appropriate to hold such 
meetings. The Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director will hold such meetings during the financial 
year ending 31 July 2015. 
B.6.1  
 
B.6.3 
 
 
B.7.2
“The board should state in the annual report how 
performance evaluation of the board, its committees 
and its individual directors has been conducted.”
“The non-executive directors, led by the senior 
independent director, should be responsible for 
performance evaluation of the chairman, taking 
into account the views of the executive directors.”
“The board should set out to shareholders in the papers 
accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive 
director why they believe an individual should be elected. 
The chairman should confirm to shareholders when 
proposing re-election that, following formal performance 
evaluation, the individual’s performance continues to be 
effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.”
In the short period of time from Listing to the end of 
the financial year on 31 July 2014, the Board focused  
on the development of the business post-Listing and 
on the implementation and embedding of formal Board 
processes and procedures. It was considered too early 
to undertake a formal evaluation of its own performance, 
its Committees or that of individual Directors or the 
Chairman. An evaluation of the Board, its Committees 
and that of individual Directors and the Chairman will be 
undertaken during the financial year ending 31 July 2015.
Although formal performance evaluations have not been 
conducted, the Chairman has confirmed to shareholders 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting that he and the 
Board believe that the performance of each Non-Executive 
Director continues to be effective and each demonstrates 
commitment to the role. 
C.2.1 “The board should, at least annually, conduct a review 
of the effectiveness of the company’s risk management 
and internal control systems and should report to 
shareholders that they have done so. The review 
should cover all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls.”
Due to the short period of time between Listing and the 
end of the financial year on 31 July 2014, the Board did 
not conduct such a review for the year ended 31 July 2014 
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2014. However, as part of the Listing process, 
Ernst & Young LLP conducted a review of the Company’s 
internal control processes and procedures and highlighted 
certain areas for improvement. In addition, BDO LLP  
has been appointed to provide outsourced internal  
audit services for the Group. A review of the effectiveness 
of the risk management and internal control processes 
will be undertaken by the Board during the financial year 
ending 31 July 2015 and at least annually thereafter. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 41
Governance Report
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees 
to assist it with discharging its duties. The Committees play an 
essential role in supporting the Board to implement its strategy 
and provide focused oversight of key aspects of the business. 
The full Terms of Reference for each Committee are available 
on the Company’s website, www.volutiongroupplc.com.
Board balance and independence
The Code recommends that at least half the board of directors 
of a UK-listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise 
non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent 
in character and judgement and free from relationships or 
circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the 
directors’ judgement. The Company’s Board consists of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive 
Chairman, one non-independent Non-Executive Director 
appointed by Windmill Holdings B.V., our principal shareholder, 
and two Executive Directors. A list of the Directors is provided 
on pages 38 to 39.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Company has established a clear division between the respective 
responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 
and the Chief Executive Officer. The Non-Executive Chairman is 
Peter Hill who is responsible for leading the Board’s discussions 
and decision-making. The Chairman promotes a culture of 
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of 
Non-Executive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive 
relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The 
Chief Executive Officer is Ronnie George who, through delegation 
from the Board, is responsible for leading the Company’s operating 
performance and day-to-day management of the Group. This 
separation of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive Officer, coupled with the schedule of reserved matters 
described below, ensures that no individual has unfettered 
powers of decision-making.
The matters reserved for the Board include:
 > agreeing the Group’s strategy and objectives;
 > changing the structure and capital of the Group;
 > approving the Annual Report and Accounts, Half-yearly 
Reports and Interim Management Statements;
 > approving the Group’s dividend policy and declaration 
of dividends;
 > approving the Group’s Treasury Policy;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of the Board;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of risk identification and 
management and internal controls;
 > approving significant expenditure and material 
transactions and contracts;
 > ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with the 
Group’s shareholders;
 > appointing and removing Directors;
 > determining the remuneration policy for the Executive  
and Non-Executive Directors;
 > reviewing the Company’s overall corporate 
governance arrangements;
 > delegating of authority to the Chief Executive Officer;
 > each year, meeting to set annual objectives for the 
business in line with the current Group strategy. The 
Board will monitor the achievement of the Company’s 
objectives through Board reports which include updates 
from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer 
and other functions; and
 > the Board also has a rolling agenda of items that regularly 
need to be considered by the Board and this agenda will be 
continually updated to include any topical matters that arise.
Board Governance
Overview
The Board is appointed by shareholders who are the owners of the Company. The Board’s principal responsibility is to act in the best 
interest of shareholders as a whole, within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006. It is also collectively responsible to 
shareholders for the long-term success of the Company. It agrees the strategic direction and governance structure that will help 
achieve this long-term success and deliver shareholder value. The Board oversees areas such as strategy, financial policy and making 
sure we maintain a sound system of internal control, and focuses primarily on strategic policy and governance issues. The Board’s main 
responsibilities are included in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board, as set out below. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 42
Board Governance continued
Senior Independent Director
The Code recommends that the board of directors of a company 
with a premium listing should appoint one of the non-executive 
directors as a senior independent director to provide a sounding 
board for the chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the 
other directors when necessary. The senior independent director 
should be available to shareholders if they have concerns, when 
contact through the normal channels of the chief executive officer 
has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate. 
Tony Reading has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Director and has considerable experience of acting as an 
independent non-executive director on listed company boards. 
Prior to joining the Company, he was a non-executive director 
of Taylor Wimpey plc, Laird PLC, e2v Technologies plc, 
Spectris plc and George Wimpey plc. He was also an executive 
director of Tomkins plc, and chairman and chief executive 
of Tomkins Corp. USA.
Non-Executive Directors and independence
The independence of each Non-Executive Director was 
considered at the time of appointment in June 2014. The 
Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range 
of skills and experience to the Board which assists both in their 
roles in formulating the Company’s strategy and in providing 
constructive challenge to the Executive Directors. All of the 
Non-Executive Directors, except for Gavin Chittick, are regarded 
by the Company as independent Non-Executive Directors within 
the meaning defined in the Code and free from any business 
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the 
exercise of their independent judgement.
Gavin Chittick is not considered independent due to his position 
in TowerBrook Capital Partners L.P ., and its relationship with our 
principal shareholder (a company which is indirectly controlled by 
the following funds: TowerBrook Investors III L.P ., TowerBrook 
Investors III (Parallel) L.P ., and TowerBrook Investors III Executive 
Fund L.P ., (Funds). Our principal shareholder prior to Listing 
controlled the Company and now holds ordinary shares totalling 
approximately 61.4% of the total issued share capital. Under the 
terms of a Relationship Agreement, our principal shareholder has 
the right to nominate one person to be a Director of the Company 
for so long as it is interested in at least 15% of the Company’s 
ordinary shares.
Board meetings
The Company was listed on 23 June 2014 which meant that 
there was only a short period of “life as a public company” until 
the financial year ended on 31 July 2014. As a result of this short 
period between Listing and financial year end, the Board held just 
one Board and one of each of its Committee meetings at which 
all Directors were present. In future the Board plans to hold at 
least six meetings a year.
Agendas for the Board meetings are set out at the beginning 
of the year and new items are added to this as and when appropriate. 
All Directors receive papers in advance of Board meetings. These 
include a business and market update report with updates from 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Members 
of the Company’s Senior Management Team may also be invited 
to present at Board meetings as appropriate so that Non-Executive 
Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
Appointment and tenure 
The appointment dates of Directors are shown on pages 38 to 39. 
The Board believes that all Directors are effective, committed 
to their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their 
duties. Accordingly, all members of the Board will be offering 
themselves for election at the Company’s first Annual General 
Meeting to be held on Wednesday 17 December 2014.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of 
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 62. The service 
agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours. 
No other contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking 
of the Company in which any Director was materially interested 
subsisted during or at the end of the financial year other than the 
Relationship Agreement, further details of which can be found 
on page 64. Under the Relationship Agreement, our principal 
shareholder has the right to nominate one person to the Board 
of the Company for so long as its shareholding is at least 15% 
of the Company’s ordinary shares.
Evaluation and effectiveness
As outlined earlier, given the short period of time from Listing to 
the financial year end, no formal and rigorous evaluations of the 
performance of the Board, its Committees, individual Directors 
or the Chairman have taken place during the financial year ended 
31 July 2014. All these performance evaluations will be 
undertaken during the financial year ending 31 July 2015.
In addition, the Chairman will meet with the Non-Executive 
Directors at least once a year without the Executive Directors 
present to discuss Board balance, monitor the powers of 
individual Executive Directors and raise any issues between 
themselves as appropriate. Led by the Senior Independent 
Director, the Non-Executive Directors will also meet during the 
financial year ending 31 July 2015 without the Chairman present 
to appraise his performance. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 43
Governance Report
Development
In line with the Code, the Company will ensure that any new 
Directors joining the Board will receive appropriate support 
and are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction 
programme organised through the Company Secretary, including 
the provision of background material on the Company and briefings 
with senior management. Each Director’s individual experience 
and background will be taken into account in developing a 
programme tailored to his or her own requirements. Any new 
Director will also be expected to meet with major shareholders 
if required. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest 
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they 
have or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, 
unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board. This includes 
potential conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position 
with another company. The Company’ s Articles of Association allow 
the Board to authorise such potential conflicts, and there is in place 
a procedure to deal with any actual or potential conflict of interest. 
The Board deals with each appointment on its individual merit 
and takes into consideration all the circumstances. All potential 
conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in a conflicts of 
interest register, which will be reviewed by the Board on a regular 
basis to ensure that the procedure is working effectively.
External directorships 
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept one external 
commercial non-executive director appointment provided the 
commitment is compatible with their duties as an Executive 
Director. The Executive Director concerned may retain fees paid 
for these services which will be subject to approval by the Board. 
Currently, neither of the Executive Directors holds an external 
directorship. Details of all Directors’ significant directorships can 
be found in their biographies on pages 38 to 39.
Where Non-Executive Directors have external directorships, the 
Board is comfortable that these do not impact on the time that 
any Director devotes to the Company and we believe that this 
experience only enhances the capability of the Board.
Information and support available to Directors
All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who 
advises them on governance matters. The Chairman and the 
Company Secretary work together to ensure that Board papers 
are clear, accurate, delivered in a timely manner to Directors, and 
of sufficient quality to enable the Board to discharge its duties. 
Specific business-related presentations are given by senior 
management when appropriate. As well as the support of the 
Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director 
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered 
necessary, for example Deloitte LLP advises on remuneration 
matters and Ernst and & Young LLP on audit matters.
Shareholder engagement 
Prior to Listing, the Company met regularly with analysts and 
institutional investors. Responsibility for shareholder relations rests 
with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer. They ensure that there is effective communication with 
shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy, and 
are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the 
views of major shareholders. The Board aims to present a 
balanced and clear view of the Group in communications with 
shareholders and believes that being transparent in describing 
how we see the market and the prospects for the business is 
extremely important. We intend to communicate with shareholders 
in a number of different ways. The full and half-year reporting will 
be followed by presentations and investor meetings in a variety of 
locations where we have institutional shareholders. We will also 
regularly meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update 
them on our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company. 
Periodically we may arrange visits to the business sites to give 
analysts and major shareholders a better understanding of how we 
manage our business. These visits and meetings will be principally 
undertaken by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 
with any relevant material being uploaded to the Company’s 
website so being available to all shareholders.
The Board intends to receive regular updates on the views of its 
shareholders from the Chief Executive Officer and Company brokers, 
which will be a standing agenda item for all Board meetings. 
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to meet 
shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from the 
arrangements as described above.
The Company’s investor website is also regularly updated with 
news and information including this Annual Report and Accounts 
which sets out our strategy and performance together with our 
plans for future growth.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company will take 
place at 11.00 am on Wednesday 17 December 2014 at 
The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person 
or by proxy, at the AGM. The Notice of AGM can be found in 
a circular which is being posted at the same time as this Annual 
Report and Accounts. The Notice of AGM sets out the business 
of the meeting and explanatory notes on all resolutions. Separate 
resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue. 
The Chairman, the chairman of each of the Committees and both 
Executive Directors will be present at the AGM and will 
be available to answer shareholders’ questions. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 44
Nomination Committee Report
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Responsibilities
The Committee’s terms of reference (which can be found on the 
Company’s website) deal with such issues as membership and 
frequency of meetings, together with the requirements for quorum 
and notice procedure and the right to attend meetings. The 
responsibilities of the Committee covered in its terms of reference 
include reviewing Board composition, appointing new Directors, 
re-appointment and re-election of existing Directors, succession 
planning taking into account the skills and expertise that will be 
needed on the Board in the future, reviewing time required from 
Non-Executive Directors, determining membership of other Board 
committees and ensuring external facilitation of the evaluation of 
the Board. As part of its activities the Committee also considers 
the diversity (including gender diversity) of the Board.
Composition
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the 
Nomination Committee should be independent non-executive 
directors. As the Committee is chaired by me, and its other 
members are Adrian Barden, Paul Hollingworth and 
Tony Reading, all of whom are independent Non-Executive 
Directors, the Company complies with this Code recommendation. 
By invitation, the meetings of the Committee may be attended 
by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer 
and the non-independent Non-Executive Director.
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to introduce the first report 
of the Nomination Committee since it was 
established as part of the governance 
processes adopted by the Company 
on Listing in June 2014.
Nomination Committee members
Peter Hill, CBE (chair)
Adrian Barden
Paul Hollingworth
Tony Reading Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 45
Governance Report
Meetings and attendance
During the short period of time between Listing on 23 June 2014 
and the financial year end on 31 July 2014, one meeting of the 
Committee was held and all members attended the meeting. 
The principal work undertaken at that meeting was to review 
the Company’s policy on diversity. 
The Committee will meet formally at least once a year and at such 
other times as the Board or the Committee chairman requires. 
The Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out 
its duties, including the services of the Company Secretary. 
Independent external legal and professional advice can also be 
taken by the Committee if it believes it is necessary to do so.
Election of Directors
On the recommendation of the Committee and in line with the 
Code, all of the Company’s Directors will stand for election at the 
forthcoming AGM as it is the first AGM since their appointments 
and will subsequently offer themselves for re-election on an annual 
basis. The biographical details of the Directors can be found on 
pages 38 to 39. Whilst no formal performance evaluation review 
has been conducted in the short period from Listing to the financial 
year end on 31 July 2014, the Committee is satisfied that the 
Directors are performing effectively and are demonstrating a 
commitment to their roles. This will continue to be monitored 
going forward with a formal performance review taking place 
during the financial year ending 31 July 2015. 
Diversity
The Committee supports the aims, objectives and 
recommendations outlined in Lord Davies’ report “Women 
on Boards” and is aware of the need to increase the number 
of women on the Board, to which it is committed over time. 
Within this overriding commitment, we will make appointments 
based on merit and against objective criteria to ensure we 
appoint the best individual for each role. 
The Committee and the Board understands the importance of a 
diverse Board membership as well as throughout the Company, 
and recognises that diversity encompasses not only gender but 
also background, ethnicity and disability. The Committee believes 
that appointments should be made on merit, the key criterion 
being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement 
the existing range of skills and experience on the Board. The 
Company used an external search consultancy to assist in the 
appointment of the new independent Non-Executive Directors 
appointed at Listing. The consultancy had no other connection 
with the Company. Although there are currently no females on 
the Board, two of the nine members of the Senior Management 
Team are female (22%). Across our business of approximately 
1,000 employees, female employees represented approximately 
34% of the workforce and held 22% of senior and other 
managerial positions in the business as at 31 July 2014. 
The Company will continue to develop the potential of women 
throughout the corporate pipeline.
I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM to 
answer any questions on the work of the Nomination Committee.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
23 October 2014 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 46
Audit Committee Report
Paul Hollingworth
Chairman, Audit Committee
The Code recommends that all members of the committee be 
non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement 
and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could 
or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that 
one such member has recent and relevant financial experience. 
Accordingly, the Committee comprises three members who 
are independent Non-Executive Directors, me as Committee 
Chairman, considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience, Tony Reading and Adrian Barden. Biographies 
of all Committee members can be found on pages 38 to 39. As such, 
the Committee complies with the Code recommendations. 
Regular Committee meetings are also normally attended by the 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, other Directors, 
the external auditor and the Company Secretary, who acts as 
secretary to the Committee. Other members of management 
are invited to attend depending on the matters under discussion. 
The Committee will meet regularly with the external auditor with 
no members of management present. 
The Committee was set up by the Board to assist it with its 
responsibilities in respect of financial reporting, including reviewing 
annual and half-year results, external auditing, internal controls, 
and advising on the independence and appointment of the external 
auditor. The Committee will also be routinely looking at the significant 
accounting treatments facing the Group and will focus on the 
matters raised by Ernst & Young LLP (EY) which they consider 
to be of significant audit risk. The Committee will normally meet 
at least three times a year at the appropriate times in the 
reporting and audit cycle.
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to introduce the first report 
of the Audit Committee since it was 
established as part of the governance 
processes adopted by the Company 
on Listing in June 2014.
Audit Committee members
Paul Hollingworth (chair)
Adrian Barden
Tony Reading Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 47
Governance Report
During the period leading up to Listing, as part of completing the 
Group’s Financial Position, Prospects and Procedures Report, 
EY and the Directors undertook an assessment of the following 
key areas:
 > Board governance including the Committee and the 
procedure for assessing the Group’s key risks;
 > management accounting process and the information 
provided to the Board;
 > external financial reporting procedures and audit arrangements 
and reporting standards;
 > the internal control environment;
 > complex transactions, potential exposure and risk;
 > information systems; and 
 > budgeting and forecasting procedures and controls.
The Directors recognise the need to maintain the financial reporting 
procedures, review them on an ongoing basis and adapt them 
to changing circumstances. Their review will form part of the 
Committee’s agenda going forward together with its wider role 
and responsibilities which are set out in more detail in this report.
Based on their performance during the year ended 31 July 2014, 
the Committee will be recommending that EY be re-appointed 
as auditor at the Annual General Meeting 2014 (AGM).
I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM to 
answer any questions on the work of the Audit Committee.
Paul Hollingworth
Chairman of the Audit Committee
23 October 2014
Role and responsibilities 
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board 
in fulfilling its responsibilities to protect the interests of shareholders 
with regard to the integrity of financial reporting, audit, risk 
management and internal controls. This comprises:
 > monitoring and reviewing the Group’s accounting policies, 
practices and significant accounting judgements; and
 > receiving the annual and half-yearly financial statements and 
any public financial announcements and advising the Board 
on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable.
In relation to the external audit:
 > approving the appointment and recommending the 
re-appointment of the external auditor and their terms 
of engagement and fees;
 > considering the scope of work to be undertaken by the 
external auditor and reviewing the results of that work; 
 > reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external 
auditor and approving their provision of non-audit services;
 > reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor;
 > reviewing compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code;
 > monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context 
of the Company’s overall risk management systems;
 > overseeing the Group’s procedures for its employees to raise 
concerns through its whistleblowing policy as set out in the 
Code of Conduct and Business Principles Policy;
 > monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management systems 
and processes; and
 > assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, 
operational and compliance controls. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 48
Audit Committee Report continued
Meetings and attendance
During the short period of time between Listing on 23 June 2014 
and the financial year end on 31 July 2014, one meeting of the 
Committee was held and all members attended the meeting. 
Following the financial year end, the Committee met on two occasions 
prior to the approval of the financial statements. Since Listing, 
the principal work of the Committee has been:
 > reviewing progress on the pre-Listing Financial Position and 
Prospects Procedures Report which set out certain procedures 
that had been identified which were either in the process of 
being designed or were to be implemented post-Listing; 
 > reviewing and approving the external audit plan for the year 
ended 31 July 2014;
 > agreeing the Committee rolling agenda for 2014/15 and the 
associated financial calendar;
 > reviewing the need for an internal audit function, concluding 
that given the size and scale of the Group’ s operations, although 
management had not historically considered it necessary to 
establish such a function it had been determined that the best 
option for the Group was to outsource the function and BDO 
LLP had been engaged to provide the function;
 > reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and 
recommending to the Board its adoption as fair, balanced and 
understandable. In fulfilling this task the Committee reviewed 
the process undertaken to produce the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2014, which included internal verification processes 
and content approval procedures;
 > reviewing the preliminary results announcement 2014;
 > receiving the external auditor’s reports to the Committee;
 > reviewing the Company’s accounting policies and key 
accounting judgements;
 > considering the risk assessment, mitigation actions and 
assurance activities produced by management; 
 > reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditor, together with their effectiveness, and recommending 
their re-appointment to shareholders at the AGM; and
 > reviewing compliance and explaining any exceptions from the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
Significant accounting matters
In reviewing the financial statements with management and 
the external auditor, the Committee has discussed and debated 
the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainty as set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial 
statements. As a result of its review, the Committee has identified 
the following issues that require particular judgement or have 
significant impact on interpretation of this Annual Report and 
Accounts 2014:
 > Exceptional items: exceptional items on a pre-tax basis 
of £7.8 million (2013: £2.8 million) represent a material item 
in the profit and loss account and primarily consist of costs 
associated with the Listing and acquisitions (see note 8 to 
the consolidated financial statements).
 > Rebates: rebates provided to certain large customers based 
on volumes ordered are a significant cost particularly in the 
Ventilation Group and can be an area of subjectivity as regards 
size and timing. The Committee has reviewed the basis on 
which these rebates are calculated and accounted for and 
are satisfied with their accounting treatment (see note 4 
to the consolidated financial statements).
 > Intangible assets: as a result of a number of recent acquisitions, 
intangible assets, both goodwill and others, are the biggest 
single asset in the balance sheet. At 31 July 2014 intangible 
assets relating to goodwill, customer base and trademarks 
amounted to £163.8 million. The value of goodwill and other 
intangible assets has been reviewed for impairment using 
a value in use model using cash flow and discount rates as 
set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Fresh, PAX and inVENT er acquisitions are showing reasonable 
headroom on their goodwill calculations (see note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements).
In addition to the above matters, the Committee reviewed 
the accounting for the share capital reconstruction post-Listing 
which had as a key objective, the creation of distributable 
reserves of £52.1 million to enable the payment of future 
dividends by Volution Group plc.
Non-audit services
Leading up to the Listing, due to the extensive working knowledge 
of the Group, the Board at the time was of the opinion that EY 
was uniquely placed to undertake the considerable amount of 
work that was required to complete that process within the 
timescales required.
As a result, during the financial year ended 31 July 2014, EY charged 
the Company £2.1 million for non-audit services. Clearly 2014 
was an unusual year due to the involvement of EY in the Listing 
process for which its fees were £1.8 million in relation to their 
role as Reporting Accountant, and accordingly related to 
non-recurring work. Full details are given in note 13 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit work undertaken 
and the nature of the services provided did not detract from 
the objectivity and independence of the auditor.
The Committee is mindful of the ratio of non-audit fees to audit 
fees associated with the external auditor and, going forward, will 
monitor the ratio in line with external guidelines.
The Committee’s policy is that any non-audit services provided 
by the auditor be approved in advance by the Committee, need 
to be fully justified against alternative providers, and be kept 
to a practical minimum. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 49
Governance Report
Internal control and risk 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’ s systems of internal 
control and for reviewing their effectiveness and this responsibility 
has been delegated to the Committee. There is an ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks 
faced by the Group. Such a system is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. Controls are monitored by 
management review. Data consolidated into the Group’s financial 
statements is reconciled to the underlying financial systems. 
A review of the consolidated data is undertaken by management 
to ensure that the true position and results of the Group are 
reflected through compliance with approved accounting policies 
and the appropriate accounting for non-routine transactions.
The Group performs an annual strategy and budgeting process 
and the Board approves the annual Group budget as part of its 
normal responsibilities. The Group results are reported monthly 
to the Board. A regular forecasting regime is adhered to and 
revised forecasts are produced for the Board whenever 
significant financial trends are identified.
The Committee will review the effectiveness of the internal control 
environment of the Group during the current year. It also receives 
reports from the external auditor, which include recommendations 
for improvement. The Committee’s role in this area is confined 
to a high-level review of the arrangements for internal control. 
Significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration. 
A Group risk register is produced and maintained and presented 
to the Board. The principal risks facing the Group and the 
mitigating actions taken by the Board and management are 
included on pages 24 to 27 of the Strategic Report.
In accordance with the Code, the Committee and the Board must 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems and report to shareholders that they have 
done so. The review should cover all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls. Due to the short 
period of time between Listing on 23 June 2014 and the end of 
the financial year on 31 July 2014, the Committee and Board did 
not conduct such a review for the year ended 31 July 2014 and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014. 
However, as part of the Listing process EY conducted a review 
of the Company’s internal control processes and procedures and 
highlighted certain areas for improvement. In addition, as stated 
below, BDO LLP has been appointed to provide the Group with 
an internal audit function. A review of the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control processes will be undertaken 
by the Committee and the Board during the financial year ending 
31 July 2015 and at least annually thereafter.
Internal audit
Following Listing the Committee considered whether to set up an 
internal audit function. The Committee concluded that given the 
size and scale of the Group’s operations, although management 
had not historically considered it necessary to establish such a 
function, it had been determined that the best option for the Group 
was to outsource the function. BDO LLP has been engaged to 
provide the function, reporting into the Group Chief Accountant, 
with a separate reporting line to the Committee Chairman.
Whistleblowing policy
The Company is committed to providing a safe and confidential 
avenue for all employees within the Group to raise concerns 
about serious wrongdoings. The Company also acknowledges 
the requirements of the Code in this regard, which states that 
the Committee should review arrangements by which staff of 
the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. 
Further to this, an appropriate policy to encourage and enable 
staff to raise any such concerns is in place as set out in the 
Code of Conduct and Business Principles Policy.
Re-appointment of external auditor
During the financial year ended 31 July 2013, prior to the Listing 
of the Company, a tender process was undertaken resulting in 
the appointment of EY as auditor for the then group. Following 
incorporation of the Company on 15 May 2014, EY was appointed 
auditor on 28 May 2014. The Company listed on 23 June 2014 
and EY provided substantial and effective support for the Listing 
as well as providing other non-audit services which has given 
them a good understanding of the current Group. Accordingly, 
the Committee has determined that no tender process will be 
undertaken during the financial year ending 31 July 2015.
The Committee is mindful of the EU’ s audit legislation which came 
into force on 16 June 2014 imposing mandatory audit firm rotation 
as well as significant restrictions on non-audit services. With the 
new requirements taking effect in June 2016, the Committee has 
reviewed the provisions. In determining when auditor rotation is 
mandated, the date of our Listing is considered to be the start date 
for the tenure of EY as the Group’ s auditor. There are no contractual 
obligations on the Company which restrict the choice of auditor. 
Having monitored the effectiveness of the audit process for the year 
ended 31 July 2014, by enquiry of management and auditor, the 
Committee recommends re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP 
as auditor at the AGM.
Governance
As the Committee has only been in existence for a short period 
of time since Listing, an evaluation of performance has not been 
undertaken. The first full evaluation is scheduled for the year 
ending 31 July 2015 and will be annually thereafter.
The Committee has reported in accordance with its Terms of 
Reference and in particular has recommended to the Board 
the adoption of this Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 and 
the proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent 
auditor at the AGM in December 2014.
Paul Hollingworth
Chairman of the Audit Committee
23 October 2014 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 50
Directors’ Remuneration Report
In accordance with these regulations, the report is divided into 
three sections: 
1.  this Annual Statement which summarises the major decisions 
taken in respect of the Directors’ remuneration;
2.  the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report setting out the 
remuneration policy for the Company’s Directors; and
3.  the Annual Report on Remuneration. This sets out how 
the Committee will implement the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy for the financial year ending 31 July 2015 and also 
the remuneration payable in respect of the financial year 
ended 31 July 2014.
The Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at our forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting on 17 December 2014. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 December 2014, 
and if approved by shareholders, is when it will become formally 
effective. In practice the Company intends to operate the proposed 
policy from 1 August 2014. 
Anthony Reading, MBE
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee members
Tony Reading (chair)
Adrian Barden
Peter Hill
Paul Hollingworth
Dear shareholder
As chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, I am pleased to introduce our 
first report on Directors’ remuneration since 
Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 
23 June 2014 which has been prepared in 
accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended) and the relevant provisions 
of the Listing Rules.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 51
Governance Report
Our approach to remuneration
Prior to Listing, we undertook a full review of our remuneration 
framework to ensure that, post-Listing, it was aligned with best 
practice while promoting the long-term success of the Company. 
The result is a framework which delivers market competitive 
packages that are aligned with the interests of our shareholders. 
For the 2014/15 financial year our policy will be operated 
as follows:
 > salaries were reviewed pre-Listing to ensure they are 
competitive in the listed environment taking into account the 
Company’s size and complexity. As such, there will be no 
further salary review changes until the next financial year;
 > annual bonus with a maximum opportunity of 100% of base 
salary based on profit growth, working capital management, 
margin improvement and Group employee retention;
 > introduction of annual bonus deferral; 
 > long-term incentive plan with a maximum opportunity of 100% 
of salary with awards in the 2015 financial year based on the 
Company’s EPS and relative TSR performance over a three 
year period; 
 > in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, our incentive 
plans include both malus and clawback provisions; and
 > introduction of shareholding guidelines which require Executive 
Directors to build up a holding in the Company’s shares equal 
to 100% of base salary.
The Committee’s policy ensures that a significant percentage of 
the overall package of an Executive Director remains at risk, and 
the Committee believes that the pay and benefits of the Executive 
Directors adequately take account of reward versus risk.
Looking to the future
The Committee has reflected on the Directors’ remuneration 
reporting regulations and set the following priorities and actions 
for 2014/15:
 > to carefully monitor Company performance in relation to the 
achievement of its strategic goals, and to ensure executive 
reward is closely linked to those achievements;
 > to engage with key institutional investors and shareholder 
representative bodies with regard to Executive Director 
remuneration; and
 > to further align employees’ and shareholders’ interests by 
looking at ways of employee participation in share-based 
incentive schemes and the potential to become shareholders 
in the Company.
Shareholder engagement
As a newly listed company we take an active interest in 
shareholder views on our executive remuneration policy and 
will be reviewing voting outcomes from our first Annual General 
Meeting in December 2014. The Committee is also committed 
to establishing an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and 
shareholder representative bodies.
I do hope that you will support both resolutions on the above 
reports at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Anthony Reading, MBE 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 October 2014 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 52
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the Committee’s remuneration policy for the remuneration of directors. This policy 
will be effective from 17 December 2014 subject to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on this date. 
In practice the Company intends to operate the proposed policy from 1 August 2014. 
The role of the Committee is to recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration to focus and incentivise 
the Executive Directors and Senior Management Team to deliver the Company’s strategic business priorities, thereby aligning them 
with the interests of our shareholders.
 
Policy table
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary  
Purpose and link to strategy: Core element of remuneration set at a level to attract, retain and reward Executive Directors of the 
required calibre to successfully deliver Company strategy. 
Fixed annual sum, normally reviewed annually.
In determining base salaries, the Committee 
considers:
 > salary levels at companies of a similar 
size and complexity;
 > Company performance and external 
market conditions;
 > pay and conditions elsewhere in the 
Group; and
 > role, experience and personal 
performance.
There is no automatic entitlement to an 
increase each year.
The current salaries for the Executive 
Directors are set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
While the Committee does not consider it 
appropriate to set a maximum salary increase, 
annual increases will generally be in line with 
those of the wider workforce. Increases 
beyond those awarded to the wider workforce 
(in percentage of salary terms) may be 
awarded in certain circumstances such 
as progression in the role, where there is 
a change in responsibility, experience or 
a significant increase in the scale of the  
role and/or size, value and/or complexity 
of the Group. 
Company and individual performance 
are factors considered when 
reviewing salaries.
Pension 
Purpose and link to strategy: The Company aims to provide competitive retirement benefits for the role. 
Executive Directors may receive an 
employer’s pension contribution to a 
personal or Group pension scheme  
and/or cash allowance.
 15% of base salary.  N/A Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 53
Governance Report
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Annual bonus plan (ABP)
Purpose and link to strategy: To incentivise Executive Directors to achieve specific, pre-determined goals during a one-year period. 
Rewards achievement of objectives linked to the Company’s strategy. 
Annual bonus payment is determined by 
the Committee after the financial year end, 
based on annual performance against 
targets set at the start of the year.
Normally, 50% of any annual bonus 
payment above the target incentive (which 
will be 60% of the maximum opportunity) 
earned by the Executive Directors will be 
deferred into awards over the Company’s 
shares which normally vest after at least 
two years. 
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/
or shares) may be payable on awards to 
the extent that they vest.
100% of base salary. Performance measures are 
determined with reference to the 
Company’s key strategic business 
objectives for the year.
No less than 50% of the bonus will 
be dependent on financial measures 
and the remainder will be based on 
non-financial measures that are 
aligned to the strategic priorities of  
the business.
At threshold performance up to 25% 
of the maximum pays out. Below this 
level of performance, no bonus pays out.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
Purpose and link to strategy: To incentivise the delivery of key strategic objectives over the longer term and align the interests 
of Executive Directors with those of our shareholders. 
Typically a contingent award of shares or 
nil-cost options is made on an annual basis.
Vesting of the awards is dependent on the 
achievement of performance targets, 
typically measured over a three-year period.
Dividend equivalent payments (cash and/or 
shares) may be payable on awards to the 
extent that they vest.
The Committee intends initially to make 
awards of 100% of base salary, with the 
ability to make awards of up to 175% of 
base salary as permitted by the plan rules. 
Awards vest based on challenging 
financial, operational or share 
price targets.
At least 50% will be based on 
financial measures.
No more than 25% vests at threshold 
with 100% of awards vesting at 
maximum performance.
Other benefits 
Purpose and link to strategy: To provide a market-competitive package of benefits consistent with the role. 
Various cash/non-cash benefits are 
provided to Executive Directors which may 
include (but are not limited to) a company 
car (or cash equivalent), life assurance, 
expatriate benefits, private medical 
insurance, relocation benefits. 
Executive Directors would also be able to 
participate in any all-employee share plans 
on the same basis as other eligible 
employees, should such plans be 
implemented by the Company. 
Although the Committee does not consider 
it appropriate to set a maximum benefits 
level, they are set at an appropriate level for 
the specific nature of the role. 
N/A Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 54
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Policy table continued
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Share ownership guidelines 
Purpose and link to strategy: To provide close alignment between the longer-term interests of Executive Directors and shareholders. 
Executive Directors are expected to achieve 
and retain a holding of the Company’s 
shares worth 100% of their base salary 
within a period of four years from Listing 
on the London Stock Exchange, which  
was 23 June 2014, or, if later, within four 
years of the new Director becoming subject 
to such guidelines.
100% of base salary. N/A
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees 
Purpose and link to strategy: To enable the Company to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the required calibre 
by offering market-competitive fees. 
Fees are determined by the Board. 
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive  
fee for all Board responsibilities. 
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic 
Board fee. 
Neither the Chairman nor Non-Executive 
Directors are eligible to participate in any 
of the Company’s incentive arrangements  
or receive any pension provision.
Additional fees may be payable for additional 
Board responsibilities such as chairmanship 
or membership of a committee or performing 
the Senior Independent Director role.
The Committee reviews the fees paid to  
the Chairman and the Board reviews the 
fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors, 
periodically, with reference to the time 
commitment of the role and market 
levels in companies of comparable size 
and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled  
to have reimbursed all expenses that  
they reasonably incur in the performance  
of their duties. 
Fees are set within the aggregate limits set 
out in the Company’s Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors are eligible for 
fee increases during the three-year period 
that the policy operates to ensure they 
continue to appropriately recognise the time 
commitment of the role and fee levels in 
companies of a similar size and complexity. 
N/A Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 55
Governance Report
Choice of performance measures and approach to setting
The performance metrics and targets that will be set for the 
Executive Directors for the ABP and LTIP will be carefully selected 
to align closely with the Company’s strategic plan and key 
performance indicators.
Awards under the ABP will be determined by a combination of 
financial and strategic objectives appropriate to an individual’s role.
The long-term performance metrics relating to the LTIP awards 
will be set at the time of each grant but will normally include 
at least 50% based on financial performance in line with the 
Company’s key strategic objectives.
Challenging targets for both plans will be set each year based 
on a number of internal and external reference points. 
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures 
and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each 
grant under the LTIP and will consult with major shareholders in 
the event of any significant proposed change.
Committee discretion
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising 
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) 
that are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms 
of the payment were agreed:
 > before the policy came into effect; or
 > at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment 
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company.
For these purposes, “payments” includes the Committee satisfying 
variable remuneration.
The Committee will operate the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus 
Plan (DSBP) according to the respective rules, the policy set out 
above and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant. 
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion 
over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration 
of these plans. These include (but are not limited to) the following: 
 > the Committee may settle an award in cash;
 > in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, 
special dividend or any other exceptional event which, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Committee may affect the current or 
future value of the Company’s shares, the Committee may (i) 
adjust the terms of the awards and (ii) make amendments to 
the plan rules in accordance with the terms of the plan; and
 > a performance condition may be amended or substituted 
if one or more events occur which cause the Committee 
to consider that it would be more appropriate and would 
not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Malus and clawback
Malus and clawback provisions (as relevant) may be operated 
at the discretion of the Committee in respect of awards granted 
under the LTIP and the DSBP in certain circumstances including, 
but not limited to, a material misstatement of the Company’s 
financial results, a material failure of risk management by any 
member of the Group or a relevant business unit, material 
reputational damage to any member of the Group or relevant 
business unit, or if the participant is summarily dismissed. 
Clawback may be applied at the discretion of the Committee 
up to the third anniversary of delivery.
Takeover or other corporate event
In the event of a change of control, outstanding deferred share 
bonus awards will vest in full as soon as practicable after the date 
of the event, unless the Committee determines otherwise. 
For outstanding LTIP awards, generally the performance period 
will end on the date of the event. The Committee will determine the 
level of vesting taking into account the extent to which performance 
conditions have been achieved at this point. Unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, awards will generally vest on a time pro-rata 
basis taking into account the period of time between grant and 
the relevant event. 
Alternatively, the Committee may permit a participant to exchange 
his awards for equivalent awards which relate to shares in a different 
company. If the change of control is an internal re-organisation 
of the Group, if the Committee so decides, participants will be 
required to exchange their awards (rather than awards vesting).
If other corporate events occur, such as a winding-up of the 
Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event 
which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current 
or future value of the Company’s shares, the Committee may 
determine that awards will vest on the same basis as set out 
above for a takeover.
Minor changes
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out 
in this report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative 
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without 
obtaining shareholder approval for the amendment. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 56
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the 
delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance 
scenarios. The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director:
The assumptions used for these charts are as follows:
Levels of performance Assumptions
Fixed pay All scenarios > Total fixed pay comprises base salary, benefits and pension
 > Base salary – effective as at 1 August 2014
 > Benefits – effective as at 1 August 2014
 > 15% of base salary pension contributions
Variable pay Minimum performance > No cash payout under the ABP
 > No vesting under the LTIP
Performance in line 
with expectations
 > 60% of the maximum potential payout under the ABP  
(i.e. 60% of base salary)
 > 25% vesting under the LTIP (i.e. 25% of base salary), assuming 
awards equivalent to 100% of base salary are granted
Maximum performance > 100% of the maximum potential payout under the ABP  
(i.e. 100% of base salary)
 > 100% vesting under the LTIP (i.e. 100% of base salary) assuming 
awards equivalent to 100% of base salary are granted
LTIP awards have been shown at face value with no share price growth, dividends or discount rate assumptions. 
External appointments of Executive Directors
The Board allows Executive Directors to accept one external 
commercial non-executive director appointment provided the 
commitment is compatible with their duties as an Executive Director. 
The Executive Director concerned may retain fees paid for these 
services which will be subject to approval by the Board. Currently, 
neither of the Executive Directors holds an external directorship. 
Approach to recruitment 
The Committee will aim to set a new Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package in line with the Policy approved 
by shareholders.
In arriving at a total package and in considering value for each 
element of the package, the Committee will take into account 
the skills and experience of a candidate, the market rate for 
a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance 
of securing the preferred candidate. 
In line with
expectations
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Minimum
performance
100%
£412,500
58%
30%
12%
31.5%
£710,000
37%
31.5%
£1,112,500
Maximum
performance
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
£0
£200,000
£400,000
£600,000
£800,000
£1,000,000
£1,200,000
Long-term variable remuneration
Annual variable remuneration
Fixed remuneration
In line with
expectations
Minimum
performance
100%
£297,500
58%
30%
12%
31.5%
£510,000
37%
31.5%
£797,500
Maximum
performance Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 57
Governance Report
The maximum level of variable remuneration (excluding any 
buyouts) on appointment will be in line with the maximum policy 
set out above (i.e. 275% of base salary). The Committee retains 
discretion to flex the balance of the annual bonus and LTIP and 
the measures used to assess performance. 
The Committee may make additional cash and/or share-based 
awards as it deems appropriate and if the circumstances so 
demand to replace remuneration arrangements forfeited by an 
Executive Director on leaving a previous employer. This may 
include the use of the relevant provisions in the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules allowing for exceptional awards to be 
made without shareholder approval. 
Awards to replace forfeited remuneration would, where possible, 
be consistent with the awards forfeited in terms of delivery mechanism 
(cash or shares), time horizons, attributed expected value and 
whether or not they were subject to performance conditions. 
Other payments may be made in relation to relocation expenses 
and support as appropriate. 
In the case of an internal appointment, any element of remuneration 
in respect of the prior role would be allowed to continue according 
to its original terms, or adjusted if appropriate to take into account 
the appointment.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, 
the fee would be set in accordance with the approved Policy in 
force at that time. The length of service and notice periods shall 
be set at the discretion of the Committee taking into account 
market practice, corporate governance considerations and the 
particular candidate at that time. 
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration 
decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual 
circumstances of recruitment when:
 > an interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director 
role on a short-term basis; and
 > exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or 
a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function 
on a short-term basis.
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Each of the Executive Directors’ service agreements is for a 
rolling term and may be terminated by the Company or the 
Executive Director by giving not less than twelve months’ prior 
written notice. 
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company do not have service contracts. The independent 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which have 
an initial three-year term which is renewable and is terminable by 
the Company or the individual on one months’ written notice. 
Adrian Barden’s letter of appointment is with Blue Burgee Limited, 
a service company through which he provides his services.
Under a Relationship Agreement between the Company and our 
principal shareholder, Windmill Holdings B.V., one Non-Executive 
Director (who shall be deemed non-independent) can be appointed 
to the Board on behalf of the controlling shareholder. Gavin Chittick 
was nominated and has a letter of appointment to provide services 
to the Company for an initial three-year term which is renewable 
and is terminable on one months’ written notice. 
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors’ positions are 
subject to their election by the Company’s shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting 2014. No contractual payments would 
become due on termination. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in cash 
or share incentive arrangements and their service does not 
qualify for pension or other benefits. No element of their fee 
is performance related.
A Non-Executive Director’s appointment may be terminated 
with immediate effect if such Director has:
 > materially breached a term of their letter of appointment;
 > committed a serious or repeated breach of his duties 
to the Company;
 > been found guilty of fraud, dishonesty or certain 
criminal offences;
 > acted in a way likely to bring the Company into disrepute 
or which is materially adverse to the Company;
 > been declared bankrupt; or
 > been disqualified from acting as a director.
The Executive Directors’ service agreements and Non-Executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office and will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting 2014. 
Policy on Directors leaving the Group
The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed 
with the Executive Director. This is dependent on the contractual 
obligations not being in contradiction with the Policy set out in 
this report.
If an Executive Director’s employment is terminated, in the absence 
of a breach of service agreement by the Director, the Company may, 
although it is not obliged to, terminate the Director’s employment 
immediately by payment of an amount equal to base salary and 
the specified benefits (including pension scheme contribution) 
in lieu of the whole or the remaining part of the notice period. 
Payments in lieu of notice may be paid in monthly instalments 
over the length of the notice period. The Executive Directors are 
obliged to seek alternative income during the notice period and 
to notify the Company of any income so received. The Company 
would then reduce the monthly instalments to reflect such 
alternative income.  Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 58
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report continued
Policy on Directors leaving the Group continued
Discretionary bonus payments will not form part of any payments 
made in lieu of notice. Annual bonus may be payable, at the 
Committee’s discretion, with respect to the period of the financial 
year served although it would be paid in cash and normally 
pro-rated for time and paid at the normal payment date. 
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director 
under the Company’s share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the LTIP is that any outstanding awards 
lapse when the individual leaves the Group. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill health, injury or disability, 
transfer of the employing entity outside of the Group or in other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (except where 
the Director is summarily dismissed), “good leaver” status may 
be applied. 
For good leavers, awards will normally vest to the extent that 
the Committee determines, taking into account the satisfaction 
of the relevant performance conditions and unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed between 
grant and the date of leaving. Awards will normally vest at the 
original vesting date, unless the Committee decides that awards 
should vest at the time of leaving.
If a participant of the DSBP leaves the Group for any reason, 
the award will usually vest in full at the date of cessation, 
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In the event that a buyout award is made on recruitment, the 
leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
Differences in remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors compared to other employees 
The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider 
Group when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. 
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for 
the broader workforce when determining the annual salary review 
for the Executive Directors. 
Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is 
more heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than 
for other employees. 
The level of performance-related pay varies within the Group by 
grade of employee and is calculated by reference to the specific 
responsibilities of each role as appropriate.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Group 
Although pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 
are taken into account to ensure the relationship between the pay 
of Executive Directors and employees remains appropriate, the 
Committee does not consult with employees when formulating 
the remuneration policy set out in this report.
Consideration of shareholder views
As a newly listed company we take an active interest in 
shareholder views on our executive remuneration policy and 
will be reviewing voting outcomes from our first Annual General 
Meeting in December 2014. The Committee is also committed to 
establishing an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies during the coming year and whenever 
material changes are under consideration.
Annual Report on Remuneration
Volution Group plc listed on the London Stock Exchange on 
23 June 2014 (Listing). As such there are a number of disclosures 
for which we are only required to report “part-year” figures. However, 
given the introduction of the new remuneration disclosure regulations, 
and the spirit of transparency that we are trying to achieve, we have 
set out full-year figures wherever possible or appropriate to do so.
We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue 
with our shareholders and hope that the level of disclosure we 
have provided this year will ensure that decisions made on 
remuneration are fully explained, thereby helping us to build 
a positive relationship with our shareholders. 
The Committee currently comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors, T ony Reading, Adrian Barden and Paul Hollingworth, and 
the Chairman of the Board, Peter Hill. T ony Reading is the Committee 
chairman and he has chaired the Committee from his appointment 
to the Board on 23 June 2014. Prior to that date, Patrick Smulders 
was Committee chairman. The Chairman of the Board is a member 
of the Committee because the Board considers it essential that the 
Chairman is involved in setting remuneration policy (although he is 
not party to any discussion directly relating to his own remuneration). 
During the year the Committee also consulted with the 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company 
Secretary but not on matters relating to their own remuneration.
Advice to the Committee
The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments 
and best practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice 
from external advisers when appropriate.
The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers 
and during the Listing process appointed Deloitte LLP to that role in 
May 2014. T otal fees for advice provided to the Committee and to 
management during the year ended 31 July 2014 by Deloitte LLP 
were £55,000 and were charged based on the time spent and 
seniority of the staff involved in providing the advice.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom. 
The Committee requests Deloitte LLP to attend meetings periodically 
during the year. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 59
Governance Report
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
The audited table below sets out the total remuneration for the Directors in the years ended 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2013. 
Considering the Company was listed in June 2014, most of this information relates to remuneration paid under the pre-Listing 
remuneration policy.
Salary and fees
1
Benefits
2
Pension
3
Annual bonus
4
Long-term
 incentives
5
Other
6
Total
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
Chairman
Peter Hill 14 — — — — — — — — — 50 — 64 —
Executive Directors
Ronnie George 239 222 18 18 23 20 311 168 — — 470 — 1,061 428
Ian Dew
7
96 20 6 — 9 — 135 — — — 75 — 321 20
Non-Executive Directors
Adrian Barden 51 50 — — — — — — — — 25 — 76 50
Gavin Chittick
8
— — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Paul Hollingworth 6 — — — — — — — — — 25 — 31 —
Tony Reading 6 — — — — — — — — — 25 — 31 —
Notes
1.  As explained in the Committee Chairman’s Annual Statement on pages 50 
to 51, prior to Listing on 23 June 2014, the salaries of our Executive Directors 
were reviewed against other companies comparable to Volution Group plc:
 >  Ronnie George’s base salary was increased to £350,000 per annum 
effective from Listing; and
 >  Ian Dew’s base salary was increased to £250,000 per annum effective 
from Listing.
2.  Benefits include an annual car allowance paid in cash of £10,000 per annum, life 
assurance equivalent to four times annual salary and permanent health insurance.
3.  Employer’s pension contributions of 15% of base salary were paid to each 
of the Executive Directors with effect from Listing. 
4.  The annual bonus plan targets for the financial year ended 31 July 2014 
were determined by the pre-listed company remuneration committee. 
For the Executive Directors, the only performance measure was the Group’s 
internally “reported” EBITDA (adjusted for a number of exceptional items 
such as restructuring and acquisitions). This is not an uncommon measure 
in private equity owned businesses. The terms of the plan provided for a 
maximum award of 150% of base salary for achievement of a target level 
of reported EBITDA of £27.9 million, and against this target the reported 
EBITDA achieved was £28.5 million. The Committee approved the annual 
bonus plan awards for the financial year ended 31 July 2014 which paid out:
 > 150% of base salary to the Chief Executive Officer; and
 >  100% of base salary to the Chief Financial Officer. The CFO was moved 
onto this annual bonus plan in January 2014 when he became CFO of 
the pre-listed group and hence the annual bonus payment was adjusted 
accordingly by the Committee. 
5. Long-term incentives: no long-term incentives have yet been awarded. 
6.  Conditional on Listing, the Company agreed to pay to the Chairman and 
each independent Non-Executive Director £25,000 (or, in the case of the 
Chairman, £50,000) in consideration for each Director providing certain 
advice and assistance to the Company in connection with the Listing. 
This amount was satisfied on Listing by allotting shares to each Director. 
These payments on an after tax basis were subject to each of the Directors 
acquiring an equivalent amount of shares from their own funds. 
  Prior to Listing the employee benefit trust held a number of unallocated 
shares. Windmill Holdings B.V., the owner of the then group, approved the 
gifting of these shares to the Executive Directors (and other management 
shareholders), pro-rata to their shareholdings at the time. Ronnie George 
was gifted £470,305 of shares and Ian Dew was gifted £75,420 of shares. 
7.  Ian Dew was a consultant to the Group between December 2012 and 
February 2013. He became an employee in September 2013.
8.  Gavin Chittick is the non-independent Non-Executive Director appointed 
by the Company’s controlling shareholder, Windmill Holdings B.V, under 
a Relationship Agreement dated 18 June 2014 between the Company 
and the controlling shareholder. He is not entitled to receive any fees 
for the services he provides to the Company. 
9.  Iain Jamieson was a director of Windmill T opco Limited until 25 January 2014. 
His remuneration for 2013 and 2014 is not shown in the above table. His 
remuneration for these periods is included in note 11 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2014/15
Base salary
The salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed in June 2014 
prior to Listing and therefore the Committee will not be reviewing 
these salaries again until the end of the 2015 financial year for an 
eligible increase, if any, effective from the beginning of the 2016 
financial year. The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive 
Directors to ensure they were aligned with pay levels at companies 
of a similar size and complexity, considering Company performance 
and external market conditions, pay and conditions elsewhere in 
the Group and the role, experience and personal performance.
The new annual salaries of Ronnie George and Ian Dew with 
effect from Listing of the Company on 23 June 2014 are 
£350,000 and £250,000 respectively.
Pension and other benefits
Executive Directors will receive an annual employer’ s pension 
contribution at the rate of 15% of base salary and benefits comprising 
an annual car allowance paid in cash of £10,000 per annum, life 
assurance equivalent to four times annual salary and permanent 
health insurance. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 60
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2014/15 
continued
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP)
The operation of the ABP for 2014/15 will be consistent with 
the framework detailed in the Policy section of this report. The 
maximum opportunity for 2014/15 will be capped at 100% of 
base salary. The ABP performance metrics and their weightings 
for the year ending 31 July 2015 are shown in the table opposite. 
The targets themselves, as they relate to the current financial year, 
are deemed to be commercially sensitive. However, retrospective 
disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be 
provided in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, save 
where they remain commercially sensitive.
Measure Strategic objective Weighting
Adjusted EBIT To increase profit 70%
Working 
capital management
Delivering efficiency  
of working capital and 
cash generation 10%
EBIT margin Driving operating  
margin progression 15%
Group 
employee retention
To continue to retain our 
skilled employees 5%
The above metrics and weightings have been changed from 
previous years to reflect the Company’s move to a new phase 
of its strategic development following Listing on 23 June 2014.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The Committee has reviewed the statements made in the Prospectus dated 23 June 2014, with respect to the potential granting of 
LTIP awards. In the Prospectus a statement was made that there was an intention for the first awards to be made to the Executive 
Directors under the LTIP up to a maximum of 100% of salary in the financial year ending 31 July 2015, and that any such awards 
would be subject to a three-year performance period and would vest at the end of this period, subject to the achievement of share 
price and financial measures as determined by the Committee. 
Since the beginning of the new financial year, the Committee has discussed the structure of the LTIP and has decided to make awards 
based on the following performance conditions in the 2015 financial year.
Weighting 
(% of total award)
Below threshold  
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
TSR vs Direct Peer Group index 25% Below Index Equal to Index Index + 8% p.a.
TSR vs FTSE companies of a similar size 25% Less than median Median Upper quartile 
Cumulative average EPS growth 50% Below 6% p.a. 6% p.a. 15% p.a.
Awards vest on a straight line basis between these points. For the 2015 awards, the Direct Peer Group index is an unweighted index 
comprised of Polypipe, Tyman, Topps Tiles, Marshalls, Safestyle, Epwin Group and Norcros.
The companies of a similar size represent the group of 50 companies above and below the Company in terms of market capitalisation 
(excluding financial services and oil and gas companies). Relative TSR performance will be measured on a ranked basis against this 
group as set out in the table above. 
The combination of the two relative TSR comparator groups above has been selected to measure Volution’s performance as the 
Committee believes that this approach aligns remuneration with the delivery of superior market performance over the long term.
Growth in EPS will be assessed over the next three financial years ending 31 July 2017 and will determine the vesting of 50% of the awards.
In addition to the stretching performance conditions set out above, for awards to vest, the Committee must be satisfied with the 
overall financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
Non-Executive Director fees
Fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their absence. The fees of the Chairman (whose fees are determined 
by the Committee in his absence) and the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in June 2014 to take effect from Listing on 23 June 2014 
as summarised in the table below:
Chairman fee covering all Board duties £135,000
Non-Executive Director basic fee £45,000
Supplementary fees to Non-Executive Directors covering additional Board duties:
– Senior Independent Director £5,000
– Audit Committee Chairman £10,000
– Remuneration Committee Chairman £10,000 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 61
Governance Report
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
We believe that Executive Directors should have shareholdings in the Company to ensure that they are as closely aligned as possible 
with shareholder interests. As such the Company has implemented share ownership guidelines which state that Executive Directors are 
expected to achieve and retain a holding of the Company’s shares equal to 100% of their base salary within a period of four years from 
Listing or, if later, within four years of the new Director becoming subject to such guidelines. The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders. Directors’ interests in 
ordinary shares held as at 31 July 2014 (together with the interests held by their connected persons) were as follows:
Shares held
 beneficially at 
31 July 2014 
1
Target 
shareholding 
guidelines 
(% of salary)
Target 
shareholding
 achieved
2
Chairman
Peter Hill 35,333 n/a n/a
Executive Directors
3
Ronnie George 5,622,833 100% Yes
Ian Dew 855,327 100% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
Adrian Barden 97,725 n/a n/a
Gavin Chittick — n/a n/a
Paul Hollingworth 19,333 n/a n/a
Tony Reading 33,000 n/a n/a
Notes
1. Includes any shares held by connected persons.
2. The target shareholding achieved has been calculated based on the share price at 31 July 2014.
3.  As part of the Listing, the Executive Directors became subject to a lock-up arrangement whereby they agreed not to dispose of any shares for 365 days from Listing. 
Post this period, it is possible that they may sell a portion of their holding, although at all times will maintain a sizeable holding in the Company to ensure alignment 
with shareholders.
Performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration table (audited)
The chart below compares the total shareholder return performance of the Company over the period from Listing on 23 June 2014 to 
16 October 2014 (last practicable date as determined by the Committee), to the performance of the FTSE SmallCap Index. This index 
has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which the Company is a member. The base point in the chart for the 
Company equates to the offer price of 150 pence per share. 
The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer’s single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and LTIP vesting 
levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period. Note that this relates to the whole of the 2014 financial year and so 
is not directly comparable to the period used above for TSR purposes.
Total shareholder return (rebased) 
16 October 2014
10 October 2014
7 October 2014
2 October 2014
23 June 2014*
30 June 2014
10 July 2014
22 July 2014
1 August 2014
4 July 2014
16 July 2014
28 July 2014
7 August 2014
13 August 2014
19 August 2014
25 August 2014
29 August 2014
4 September 2014
10 September 2014
16 September 2014
22 September 2014
26 September 2014
90
88
86
84
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
110
Volution Group plc
FTSE SmallCap Index 
* Listing date  Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 62
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration table (audited) continued
2014 2013 
Chief Executive Officer’s single figure of remuneration (£000) 1,061 428
Annual bonus pay-out (as a % of maximum opportunity) 100% 54.8%
LTIP vesting
1
 (as a % of maximum opportunity) n/a n/a
Notes 
1. No LTIP awards have yet been granted. 
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer (audited)
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and prior year 
compared to the average remuneration for all employees.
% change in
Chief Executive
 Officer
All 
employees
1
Base salary 34.3% 0.4%
Benefits
2
0.0% 5.7%
Total annual bonus 85.1% 48.2%
Notes
1. Also including Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration.
2. Benefits include car allowance, health cover and pension contributions.
Relative importance of the spend on pay (audited)
The following table shows the total expenditure on pay for all of the Company’s employees compared to distributions to shareholders 
by way of dividend and share buyback. In order to provide context for these figures, adjusted EBITDA is also shown.
2014
£m
2013
£m
% 
change
Employee remuneration costs 27.1 22.2 22.0
Distributions to shareholders No distributions were made to shareholders in either year
Adjusted EBITDA 28.5 23.8 19.8
Statement on shareholder voting
As this is the first report following Listing, there are no prior year general meeting resolutions, or voting outcomes, to report in respect 
of Directors’ remuneration. The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes 
in respect of the approval of the remuneration report and the remuneration policy. Where there are substantial votes against resolutions 
in relation to Directors’ remuneration, the reasons for any such vote will be sought and any actions in response will be detailed in this 
section of future reports.
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 October 2014 and signed on its behalf by the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Anthony Reading, MBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 October 2014 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 63
Governance Report
Directors’ Report
Introduction
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 July 2014.
This Directors’ Report includes additional information required 
to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006, the Code, the 
DTRs and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors’ Report 
is included in other sections of this Annual Report as follows, 
which is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report:
 > the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35;
 > the Governance Report on pages 36 to 66;
 > information relating to financial instruments, as set out in 
note 25 to the consolidated financial statements; and
 > related party transactions as set out in note 30 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
This Directors’ Report also represents the “Management Report” 
for the purpose of compliance with the DTRs.
Incorporation, listing and structure
The Company was incorporated and registered in England and 
Wales on 15 May 2014 under the Companies Act 2006 as a 
public limited company with registration number 9041571 and 
with the name Windmill Newco plc. The Company changed its 
name to Volution Group plc on 4 June 2014. The Company is 
domiciled in the United Kingdom. 
On 22 June 2014 the Company acquired the entire issued share 
capital of Windmill Topco Limited to become the ultimate holding 
company of the Group.
On 23 June 2014 the ordinary shares of the Company were 
admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List 
maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading 
on the London Stock Exchange.
The operations of the Company are performed through its numerous 
subsidiary and associated undertakings details of which are set 
out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Prior to 23 June 2014 the Company was not subject to the Code, 
the DTRs or the Listing Rules. From Listing on 23 June 2014 the 
Company has complied with each of the Code, the DTRs and 
the Listing Rules except as disclosed on page 40 of the Governance 
Report. The Board is committed to becoming fully compliant 
with the Code during the financial year ending 31 July 2015.
Results and dividend
The Group’s results for the year are shown in the statement 
of comprehensive income on page 70.
The Directors intend, subject to sufficient distributable reserves 
being available, as noted in the Prospectus issued to prospective 
shareholders prior to Listing, that the first dividend to be declared 
by the Company following Listing will be an interim dividend in 
respect of the six months ending 31 January 2015.
Share capital and related matters
The Company has only one class of share and the rights 
attached to each share are identical. Details of the rights and 
obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association which are available from the Company 
Secretary. The Company may refuse to register any transfer of 
any share which is not a fully paid share. At a general meeting 
of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands 
and on a poll one vote for each share held. Details of the voting 
procedure, including deadlines for exercising voting rights, are 
set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2014.
As at 31 July 2014 the issued share capital of the Company 
was 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 1 pence each. Details 
of the share capital as at 31 July 2014 are shown in note 28 
to the financial statements. 
Powers of the Directors
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company including, 
subject to obtaining the required authority from the shareholders 
in general meeting, the power to authorise the issue of new shares 
and the purchase of the Company’s shares. Since its shares were 
listed on the London Stock Exchange on 23 June 2014, the 
Directors have not exercised any of the powers to issue or 
purchase shares in the Company.
Restrictions on transfer
There are no general restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that 
are imposed from time to time by laws and regulations (for example 
insider trading laws). Pursuant to the Listing Rules, Directors and 
certain officers and employees of the Group require the approval 
of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company. 
On 18 June 2014, the Company entered into an Underwriting 
Agreement, with among others, the Directors, the Senior 
Management Team (the names of which are set out in the 
Prospectus dated 23 June 2014, available on the Company’s 
website), Windmill Holdings B.V. (our principal shareholder), 
and Liberum Capital Limited and Canaccord Genuity Limited 
(underwriters) in accordance with which:
 > our principal shareholder agreed, subject to certain customary 
exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in the Company for 
a period of 180 days following Listing; and
 > each of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management 
Team agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, not 
to dispose of any shares in the Company for a period of 
365 days following Listing.
Each ordinary share in the capital of the Company ranks equally 
in all respects. No shareholder holds shares carrying special 
rights relating to the control of the Company. However, the 
Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with our 
principal shareholder in connection with the exercise of their 
rights as principal shareholder in the Company and their right 
to appoint a Director to the Board. Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 64
Directors’ Report continued
Share capital and related matters continued
Restrictions on transfer continued
The Company has in place certain share incentive plans and 
details can be found on page 60. As at the financial year end 
on 31 July 2014 and up to the date of this report, no awards 
had been granted under any of the share incentive plans. 
The Company also has an employee benefit trust in which to hold 
ordinary shares to satisfy awards under the share incentive plans. 
As at the financial year end on 31 July 2014 and up to the date 
of this report, no ordinary shares were held in the trust.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 23 October 2014, the Company had been notified, in 
accordance with the DTRs, of the following interests representing 
3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of 
the Company:
Name of holder
Total holding 
of shares
% of total 
voting rights
Windmill Holdings B.V. 122,751,087 61.38%
Henderson Global Investors Limited 8,325,000 4.16%
UBS Asset Management 8,000,000 4.00%
Danske Bank A/S 7,397,514 3.70%
T Rowe and Price International Limited 6,683,000 3.34%
Polar Capital European 
Forager Fund Limited 6,087,757 3.04%
Relationship agreement
On 18 June 2014, the Company and our principal shareholder 
entered into a Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose 
of which is to ensure that the Company is capable at all times 
of carrying on its business independently of our principal 
shareholder and their affiliates and ensure all transactions and 
relationships between them and the Group will be conducted 
at arm’s length and normal commercial terms. Terms of the 
Relationship Agreement remain unchanged from the Prospectus 
dated 23 June 2014 which can be found on the Company’ s website.
The Company can confirm that from Listing on 23 June 2014 
to the end of the financial year on 31 July 2014, it complied 
with the independence provisions and, as far as the Company 
is aware, the independence provisions were complied with by 
our principal shareholder.
Directors
The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on 
pages 38 to 39. Their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 
are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 61. 
There have been no changes in the make-up of the Board 
between the end of the financial year and the date of this report. 
Appointment and removal of Directors
Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the 
Company or by the Board.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the Company has agreed with 
our principal shareholder that it may appoint and remove one 
Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as our principal 
shareholder (and/or any of its associates, when taken together) holds 
15% or more of the voting rights over the Company’s shares.
All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line 
with the recommendations of the Code.
Under the Listing Rules, our principal shareholder is a controlling 
shareholder of the Company. For so long as the Company has a 
controlling shareholder, any election or re-election of an independent 
Director by shareholders must also be approved by independent 
shareholders (being shareholders other than the controlling 
shareholder). If the approval of independent shareholders to the 
appointment of a Director is not obtained, the Company may 
propose a further shareholder resolution to appoint that person 
between 90 and 120 days after the vote on the first resolution. 
Independent shareholder approval is not required for any such 
second resolution.
In addition to any powers of removal conferred by the Companies 
Act 2006, the Company may by special resolution remove any 
Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to indemnify 
the Directors of the Company against liabilities arising from or in 
connection with the execution of their duties or powers to the 
extent permitted by law. 
The Company has directors’ and officers’ indemnity insurance in 
place in respect of each of the Directors. The Company has entered 
into a qualifying third-party indemnity (the terms of which are in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006) with each of the Directors. 
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event 
that a Director or Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Transactions with related parties
Details of the transactions entered into by the Company with parties 
who are related to it are set out in note 30 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The material transactions with related parties during the period 
from Listing to the end of the financial year on 31 July 2014 were:
 > the Relationship Agreement with our principal shareholder, 
Windmill Holdings B.V. This Relationship Agreement describes 
the relationship of the Company with our principal shareholder 
together with and subject to certain minimum shareholding 
requirements, the right of our principal shareholder to be 
represented on the Board and certain anti-dilution rights; and
 > the Underwriting Agreement. The Company entered into this 
agreement on 18 June 2014, with among others, the Directors, 
the Senior Management Team (the names of which are set 
out in the Prospectus dated 23 June 2014 and available on 
the Company’s website), our principal shareholder (Windmill 
Holdings B.V .) and Liberum Capital Limited and Canaccord 
Genuity Limited (underwriters). This agreement sets out the 
underwriting arrangements for the Company’s Listing on 
23 June 2014. As part of this agreement, our principal 
shareholder, the Directors and the Senior Management  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 65
Governance Report
Team became subject to certain lock-up arrangements 
whereby they agreed not to dispose of any ordinary shares 
in the Company for a period of time. Further details can be 
found on page 63 under share capital and related matters.
Change of control
There is one significant agreement to which the Company 
is a party that is affected by a change of control as follows:
 > The amended and restated Group debt facilities contain 
prepayment provisions including the mandatory prepayment of 
all borrowings under, and the cancellation of all commitments 
under, these facilities upon a change of control. This will occur 
if any person (other than Towerbrook Capital Partners (UK) LLP) 
holds beneficially more than 50% of the issued voting share 
capital of Windmill Cleanco Limited or has the power to appoint 
or remove the majority of the Board of Directors or to give 
directions with respect to the operating and financial policies 
of the Company with which the Directors are obliged to 
comply. Further details of the Group’s banking facilities are 
shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
The provisions of the Company’s share incentive plans may 
cause options and awards granted to employees under such 
plans to vest on takeover.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a change of control.
Amendment to the Company’s Articles of Association
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special 
resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Political donations
The Group has not made in the past, nor does it intend to make 
in the future, any political donations.
Post balance sheet events
There are no material post balance sheet events to report.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, 
a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. In the years presented, the Group generated 
a loss mainly due to the high levels of interest payable under the 
private equity capital structure that existed for the majority of 
the reporting period until the Listing in June 2014. Following the 
Listing, these loans were repaid, new bank loans raised and 
funds raised from the issue of shares, resulting in the Group 
having £133.3 million of net assets as at 31 July 2014. 
Group cash flow forecasts have been produced for the period 
to 31 January 2016 and demonstrate that the Group will be able 
to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due for the foreseeable 
future. The Group is also forecast to remain in compliance with 
its banking agreement covenants at each quarter end during the 
forecast period.
The Directors confirm that after making appropriate enquiries, 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on Wednesday 
17 December 2014 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, 
London WC2A 3ED. The Notice of Annual General Meeting and 
an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out 
in the explanatory circular that accompanies this Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the Directors in office at the date when this Annual 
Report and Accounts was approved confirms that:
 > so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 > the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Ernst and Young LLP have expressed their willingness to be 
re-appointed as auditor of the Company. A resolution to re-appoint 
Ernst and Young LLP as the Company’s independent auditor will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Michael Anscombe
Company Secretary
23 October 2014
Volution Group plc 
Registered office: Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9YX 
Company number: 09041571 Governance Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 66
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 > select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 > make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 > state whether the Group and parent company financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU; and
 > prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’ s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’ s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of Directors in respect 
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 > the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of 
the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 > the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and
 > the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
23 October 2014 23 October 2014 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 67
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the members of Volution Group plc
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 > the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs at 31 July 
2014, and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 > the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 > the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 > the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of Volution Group plc 
for the year ended 31 July 2014, which comprise the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent 
company statements of financial position, the consolidated and 
parent company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated 
and parent company statements of cash flow and the related 
notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to 
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’ s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement 
set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the following risks that we believe have the greatest 
impact on our audit strategy and scope; the allocation of resources 
in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
 > Inappropriate accounting for the Group restructuring resulting 
from the IPO in June 2014. 
  We focused on the Group restructuring due to the material 
change in Group reserves and the subsequent creation of 
distributable earnings;
 > The conversion of the Group’s results from UK GAAP to IFRS’s 
as adopted by the European Union. 
  We focused on the conversion due to the presentational and 
measurement impact of the change in reporting GAAP to 
previously reported numbers and the relevance of new 
accounting policies to the current and future years;
 > Accounting for business combinations. 
  We focused on business combinations due to the subjectivity 
involved in determining the fair value of net assets acquired;
 > Assessment of impairment of intangible assets. 
  We focused on the assessment of impairment of intangible 
assets due to their significance as a proportion of total assets 
and the subjectivity involved in determining assumptions used 
in the impairment review;
 > Inappropriate revenue recognition. 
  We focused on inappropriate revenue recognition due to its 
relevance to key performance indicators; and
 > Inappropriate presentation of items as exceptional. 
  We focused on the presentation of exceptional items due to 
their magnitude in the year and their relevance in determining 
adjusted earnings. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 68
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
To the members of Volution Group plc
Our application of materiality
We applied the concept of materiality both in planning and performing 
our audit, and in evaluating the effects of misstatements on our 
audit and the financial statements. For the purposes of determining 
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 
knowledgeable person relying on the financial statements would 
be changed or influenced. We also determine a level of performance 
materiality, which we use to determine the extent of testing 
needed to reduce to an appropriately low level, the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined 
a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged 
would be material for the financial statements as a whole. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £571,000, which 
is approximately 2% of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (EBITDA), adjusted for exceptional items. We based 
materiality on adjusted EBITDA as the Group is loss-making, 
and adjusted EBITDA is a key measure of performance used 
by management. Due to the post IPO capital structure of the 
Group, we anticipate the Group will generate pre-tax profit in 
future years, which we also anticipate will form the basis for our 
calculation of materiality. On the basis of our risk assessment, 
together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control 
environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality 
for the Group is £286,000, representing 50% of materiality. 
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total 
uncorrected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our 
materiality of £571,000 for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all 
identified audit differences in excess of £26,000, as well as 
differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Our audit focused on the Group’s principal trading locations and 
cost centres which were identified based on our assessment of 
higher risk areas and locations that were considered material 
based on size, complexity and risk. We focused our Group audit 
on 7 components, which comprised 100% of consolidated 
EBITDA and 100% of consolidated revenue. We performed full 
scope procedures on 4 of the 7 components, which comprised 
78% of consolidated revenue and 69% of consolidated EBITDA, 
and specific audit testing on the remaining 3 components, which 
focused on addressing the risks set out above. The audits of 
these components were performed at a materiality level 
calculated as a proportion of Group materiality appropriate 
to the relative scale and risk of the location. 
The audit of all the UK components was performed by the Group 
audit team, who also attended key meetings of the international 
components in Sweden and Germany to discuss the results of 
their testing of higher risk areas relevant to the Group. All significant 
locations were audited by Ernst & Young member firms. Due to 
the nature of the risks noted on the previous page, the Group 
audit team was supported by valuations and treasury experts and 
taxation specialists. 
The principal way in which we scoped our response to the risks 
set out previously was as follows:
 > We examined the accounting entries for the shares issued 
and the share for share exchange that took place as part of 
the IPO in June 2014, including the treatment of IPO costs, 
together with the capital reduction following the IPO and the 
related accounting entries. We challenged the appropriateness 
of the use of the pooling of interest method in presenting the 
Group financial statements. Accounting for the reconstruction 
is also identified as a significant accounting matter by the 
audit committee;
 > We audited the conversion of the Group’s results from UK 
GAAP to IFRS adopted by the European Union by challenging 
the completeness and accuracy of key GAAP differences 
identified in the conversion process, by agreeing these 
differences to the GAAP reconciliation and the supporting 
explanatory notes included in the consolidated financial 
statements. We involved our valuations and treasury experts, 
and taxation specialists in auditing the GAAP conversion. 
The supporting GAAP reconciliation is presented in note 33 
to the consolidated financial statements;
 > We read the sale and purchase agreements in respect of the 
two business combinations in the year (inVENTer and PAX). 
We challenged the recognition of intangible assets and involved 
our valuations experts in determining whether an appropriate 
valuation model was used, whether inputs to the valuation model 
were reasonable and whether an appropriate discount rate 
was applied. Information explaining the business combinations 
is set out in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements; 
 > We challenged whether cash flow forecasts underpinning the 
impairment review for goodwill and other intangibles were 
reasonable, based on our knowledge of the Group’s markets 
and the accuracy of previous forecasts. Key assumptions that 
were challenged included growth rates, perpetuity rates and 
sensitivities. We noted adequate headroom for all CGU’s and 
involved our valuations experts in determining whether the 
discount rates applied were within an acceptable range. The 
key assumptions in the impairment review, and an impairment 
recognised during the year are set-out in note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. We noted no further 
indicators of impairment of other non-current assets. 
Accounting for intangible assets is also identified as a 
significant accounting matter by the audit committee; Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 69
Financial Statements
 > We tested key controls supporting revenue recognition and 
performed substantive and analytical procedures to agree 
the revenue recognition criteria had been met. We tested 
the timing of revenue recognition and whether the stated 
accounting policies were appropriate and consistently applied. 
We also examined the documentation supporting customer 
rebates and the accuracy of rebates recorded in prior years 
to actual payments made. Accounting for rebates is also 
identified as a significant accounting matter by the audit 
committee; and
 > We considered items presented as exceptional to ensure that 
they warranted the additional disclosure outlined in IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. Exceptional items are 
explained in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Exceptional items are also identified as a significant 
accounting matter by the audit committee.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
 > materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
 > apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or 
 > is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider 
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters 
that we communicated to the audit committee, which we 
consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
 > adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 > the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
 > we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 > the Directors’ statement, set out on page 65, in relation 
to going concern; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Andy Glover (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , 
Statutory Auditor 
London 
23 October 2014
Notes 
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Volution Group plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts 
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 70
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 July 2014
Notes
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Revenue 6 120,709 102,262
Cost of sales (63,748) (56,245)
Gross profit 7 56,961 46,017
Distribution costs (16,657) (12,380)
Administrative expenses (26,857) (21,593)
Operating profit before exceptional items 13,447 12,044
Exceptional items 8 (7,783) (2,778)
Operating profit 5,664 9,266
Finance revenue 9 7 630
Finance costs 9 (21,183) (14,099)
Loss before tax (15,512) (4,203)
Income tax 14 1,254 2,139
Loss for the year (14,258) (2,064)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (497) 138
Gain on hedge of net investment in foreign operation 172 444
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (325) 582
Total comprehensive expense for the year (14,583) (1,482)
Loss per share
Basic and diluted (pence per share) 15 (14.0)p (2.3)p Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 71
Financial Statements
Notes
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August
2012
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 16 15,915 10,793 10,192
Intangible assets – goodwill 17 50,127 46,488 45,668
Intangible assets – others 18 113,651 108,392 111,340
Deferred tax assets 14 732 99 464
180,425 165,772 167,664
Current assets
Inventories 21 15,922 12,751 12,597
Trade and other receivables 22 25,422 21,326 19,192
Income tax 1,093 — —
Other current financial assets 25 422 68 —
Cash and short-term deposits 23 10,987 15,943 14,957
53,846 50,088 46,746
Total assets 234,271 215,860 214,410
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (22,821) (19,888) (18,097)
Other current financial liabilities 25 (467) — (104)
Income tax — (934) (1,173)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26 — (3,540) (2,746)
Provisions 27 (1,018) (719) (793)
(24,306) (25,081) (22,913)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 26 (53,903) (181,482) (176,512)
Other non-current financial liabilities 25 (122) (494) (913)
Provisions 27 (600) (550) (550)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (22,090) (21,801) (25,588)
(76,715) (204,327) (203,563)
Total liabilities (101,021) (229,408) (226,476)
Net assets/(liabilities) 133,250 (13,548) (12,066)
Capital and reserves
Share capital 28 2,000 3 3
Share premium 11,527 2,098 2,098
Capital reserve 92,325 — —
Foreign currency translation reserve 257 582 —
Retained earnings 27,141 (16,231) (14,167)
Total equity 133,250 (13,548) (12,066)
The consolidated financial statements of Volution Group plc (registered number: 09041571) were approved by the Board of Directors 
and authorised for issue on 23 October 2014. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
At 31 July 2014 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 72
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 July 2014
Share 
capital
£000
Share 
premium
£000
Capital 
reserve
£000
Foreign 
currency
 translation 
reserve 
£000
Retained 
earnings 
£000
Total
£000
At 1 August 2012 3 2,098 — — (14,167) (12,066)
Loss for the year — — — — (2,064) (2,064)
Other comprehensive income — — — 582 — 582
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 582 (2,064) (1,482)
At 31 July 2013 3 2,098 — 582 (16,231) (13,548)
Loss for the year — — — — (14,258) (14,258)
Other comprehensive expense — — — (325) — (325)
Total comprehensive expense — — — (325) (14,258) (14,583)
Net adjustment to reserves arising 
from Group re-organisation (3) (2,098) — — — (2,101)
Share for share exchange as part 
of the Group re-organisation 1,520 — 92,325 — — 93,845
Issue of new ordinary shares 
on stock market listing 480 71,520 — — — 72,000
Share issue costs — (2,363) — — — (2,363)
Capital reduction — (57,630) — — 57,630 —
At 31 July 2014 2,000 11,527 92,325 257 27,141 133,250
Capital reserve
The capital reserve is the difference in share capital and reserves arising from the use of the pooling of interest method for preparation 
of the financial statements.
Foreign currency translation reserve
Exchange differences arising on translation of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries into GBP are included in the foreign currency translation 
reserve. The Group hedges some of its exposure to its net investment in foreign operations; foreign exchange gains and losses relating 
to the effective portion of the net investment hedge are accounted for by entries made directly to the foreign currency translation 
reserve. No ineffectiveness has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for any of the periods presented.
These two items are the only items in other comprehensive income. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 73
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 July 2014
Notes
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Operating activities
Loss for the year after tax (14,258) (2,064)
Adjustments to reconcile loss for the year to net cash flow from operating activities:
Income tax for the year (1,254) (2,139)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (15) (48)
Exceptional costs 8 7,783 2,778
Cash flows relating to exceptional costs (6,847) (1,354)
Finance revenue 9 (7) (630)
Finance costs 9 21,183 14,099
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 1,932 1,588
Amortisation of intangible assets 18 11,201 10,186
Impairment of intangible assets 18 1,949 —
Working capital adjustments:  
Increase in trade receivables and other assets (1,803) (1,415)
Movement in inventories (1,370) 1,097
Exceptional costs: fair value of inventories (201) (845)
Increase in trade payables and other payables 1,450 18
Movement in provisions 299 (74)
Withholding tax paid on loan note interest (34) —
UK income tax paid (2,650) (2,883)
Overseas income tax paid (475) (276)
Net cash flow from operating activities 16,883 18,038
Investing activities
Payments to acquire intangible assets 18 (1,664) (850)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (2,930) (1,758)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 62 109
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 20 (29,795) (7,955)
Interest received 7 40
Net cash flow used in investing activities (34,320) (10,414)
Financing activities
Repayment of interest-bearing loans and borrowings (106,106) (3,375)
Proceeds from new borrowings 59,479 —
Receipt of compensation from bondholders — 1,653
Issue costs of new borrowings (4,652) (182)
Interest paid (5,900) (4,736)
Transaction costs on issue of new shares (2,363) —
Proceeds from issue of new shares 72,000 —
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) financing activities 12,458 (6,640)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (4,979) 984
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the period 15,943 14,957
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 23 2
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 10,987 15,943 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 July 2014
1. General information
The consolidated financial statements present the results of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred 
to as “the Group”) for the year ended 31 July 2014. A list of subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation is presented in note 31.
From a trading perspective, the Group is engaged in the following:
 > the design, manufacture and distribution of unitary and systems ventilation products and equipment. These include a number 
of respected brands in the ventilation industry; and
 > the design, manufacture and distribution of a range of motors and components for use in air movement applications and gas boilers.
The Company is a public limited company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK (registered number: 09041571). The share capital of 
the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9YX. 
2. Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. In the years presented, the Group generated a loss 
mainly due to the high levels of interest payable under the private equity capital structure that existed for the majority of the reporting 
period until the stock market listing in June 2014. Following the listing, these loans were repaid and new bank loans and funds were 
raised from the issue of shares, resulting in the Group having £133.3 million of net assets at 31 July 2014. 
Group cash flow forecasts have been produced for the period to 31 January 2016 and demonstrate that the Group will be able to meet 
its liabilities as and when they fall due for the foreseeable future. The Group is also forecast to remain in compliance with its banking 
agreement covenants at each quarter end during the forecast period.
The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
3. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors believe there are no material 
uncertainties that lead to significant doubt that the entity can continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future. 
The preparation of the consolidated financial information in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates 
and requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements are set out in note 4.
The financial information is presented in GBP and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (£000), except as otherwise indicated. 
Capital re-organisation during 2014
Windmill Newco plc was incorporated on 15 May 2014 and subsequently changed its name to Volution Group plc on 4 June 2014. 
With effect from 23 June 2014, Volution Group plc became the legal parent of Windmill Topco Limited, the previous holding company 
of the Group, and its subsidiary undertakings through a Group re-organisation, which was accounted for as a common control transaction. 
The consolidated financial statements have therefore been prepared as a continuation of the existing Group using the pooling of 
interest method. For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 July 2013, Windmill Topco Limited prepared its consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with UK Generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP). As the consolidated financial 
statements of Volution Group plc have been prepared as a continuation of the existing group, these financial statements have been 
prepared as though the Group is a first time adopter of IFRS. Refer to note 33 for information on how the Group adopted IFRS. 
The difference in share capital and reserves arising from the use of the pooling of interest method was recorded in a capital reserve. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 75
Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation
The financial information includes all subsidiaries. The results of subsidiaries are included from the date on which effective control 
is acquired up to the date control ceases to exist.
Subsidiaries are controlled by the parent (in each relevant period) regardless of the amount of shares owned. Control exists when the 
parent has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits 
from its activities. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred and cease to be consolidated from the 
date on which control no longer exists. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting periods using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany 
transactions and balances, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of any acquisition is measured as the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value. There have been no non-controlling interests in the business 
combinations to date. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in exceptional items.
When the Group acquires a business it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and 
designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date. 
Contingent consideration resulting from business combinations is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business 
combination. When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value 
at each reporting date, with changes in fair value recognised either in profit or loss or as a change in other comprehensive income 
(OCI). The determination of fair value is based on discounted cash flows. The key assumptions take into consideration the probability 
of meeting each performance target and the discount factor.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (CGU) 
that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether assets or liabilities of the acquisition are assigned to those units.
Business combinations are set out in note 20.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, 
rebates and other similar allowances that are calculated based upon the price of goods, volumes and product mix purchased by the 
customer. Revenue is stated net of settlement discounts, VAT, other sales taxes and duties.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the following conditions are satisfied:
 > the Group has transferred ownership of the goods when the significant risks and rewards have passed to the buyer, usually on the 
delivery of the goods; 
 > the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control 
over the goods sold;
 > the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
 > it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and
 > the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
The Group has a number of customer rebate agreements, with the amounts payable often being subject to negotiation after the reporting 
date. At the reporting date, the Directors make estimates of the amount of rebates based on the level of revenue achieved in the year 
against sales targets per the customer agreements.
Rendering of services
Revenue from the provision of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. The stage of completion is measured 
by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total expected cost for each contract. Where the contract outcome cannot 
be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of expenses recognised that are recoverable. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
3. Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
Finance revenue 
Revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
Segmental analysis
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The method of identifying segments is based on internal management 
reporting information that is regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which is considered to be the Board of 
Directors of the Company.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two reportable segments: Ventilation Group and Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM (Torin-Sifan)). Each reportable segment is managed separately as they require different marketing approaches.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each subsidiary are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the Group financial statements, the results and financial position of each 
entity are expressed in GBP (“£000”), which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Group.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(“foreign currencies”) are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting 
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the 
initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
the fair value was determined.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial information, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are expressed 
in GBP using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange 
rate for the period. Exchange differences arising are classified as other comprehensive income and are transferred to the foreign currency 
translation reserve. All other translation differences are taken to profit and loss with the exception of differences on foreign currency 
borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in foreign operations, 
in which case they are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the net investment in these operations. 
Income taxes
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or payable to the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements with the following exceptions: 
 > where the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not 
a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
 > in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider it is probable that there will be taxable 
profits from which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply when 
the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legally enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment. 
Deferred income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income. Similarly, deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged 
directly to equity.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 77
Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment; when significant parts of property, plant and 
equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group recognises such parts as individual assets with specific useful lives 
and depreciates them accordingly. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount 
of the property, plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs 
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred. 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives using 
the straight line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year end, with the 
effect of any changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis.
The following useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation:
Freehold buildings – 30–50 years 
Plant and machinery – 5–10 years 
Fixtures, fittings, tools, equipment and vehicles – 4–10 years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
as part of administrative expenses, as set out in note 12.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recognised separately from goodwill where they satisfy the 
definition of an intangible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such intangible assets is their fair value 
at the acquisition date. 
The fair value of patents, trademarks and customer base acquired and recognised as part of a business combination is determined 
using the relief-from-royalty method or multi-period excess earnings method.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project is recognised as an intangible asset 
when the Company can demonstrate: the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale; its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset; how the asset will generate future economic benefits; 
the availability of resources to complete the asset; and the ability to reliably measure the expenditure during development.
Development costs
In the first set of financial statements prepared applying IFRS, the Group had been unable to capitalise development costs in full for 
historical periods. Retrospective application of IFRS does not permit the use of hindsight to conclude whether the development costs 
recognition and measurement criteria were met in historical periods. In order to retrospectively apply IFRS and capitalise development 
costs prior to periods presented, the Group would have had to revisit the research and development costs incurred and reconstruct 
a development cost that would be compliant with IFRS criteria, as the current records do not separate research and development 
costs based on the IFRS criteria. For example, staff costs were not divided between specific projects. The Group has therefore determined 
that most of the development costs for the historical periods could not be capitalised without the use of hindsight and therefore all 
development costs relating to staff costs have been expensed as incurred for the respective periods. The Group has now put a procedure 
in place to monitor all future development spending and staff costs to assess whether the criteria are met.
Subsequent measurement of intangible assets
Intangible assets with a definite life are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Development costs – 10 years 
Software costs – 5 years 
Customer base – 7–11 years 
Trademarks – 20–25 years 
Patents – 20–25 years
The estimated useful life and amortisation methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes 
in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
3. Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets with definite lives to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. Where it is not possible to estimate 
the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual 
cash generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest Group of cash generating units for which a reasonable and 
consistent allocation basis can be identified.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are immediately recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has identified the following cash generating units. These are used in the impairment review of tangible and intangible assets. 
Residential repair, maintenance and improvement (RMI) 
Residential New Build 
Commercial 
UK Export 
Nordics Residential 
Germany Residential 
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan)) 
Goodwill
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication of impairment. Impairment of goodwill is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than the carrying value of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows:
 > raw materials: purchase cost on a first in, first out basis; and
 > work in progress and finished goods: cost of direct materials and labour and an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead 
expenses based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary 
to make the sale.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables is recognised when it is probable that a future economic benefit will flow to the Group. Trade and other 
receivables is carried at original invoice or contract amount less any provisions for discounts and doubtful debts. Provisions are made 
where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience and general economic conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 79
Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable 
that the Group will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for the expected costs of maintenance guarantees are charged against profits when products have been invoiced.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation taking 
into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated 
to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the 
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable 
can be measured reliably.
The timing of cash outflows are by their nature uncertain and are therefore best estimates. Provisions are not discounted as the time 
value of money is not considered material.
Exceptional items 
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. The Group includes the IPO transaction, significant restructuring, acquisition and related integration 
and earn-out costs in exceptional items.
Financial liabilities
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest income on funds invested, gains/losses on the disposal of financial instruments, changes in the 
fair value of financial instruments, interest expense on borrowings and finance leases, and foreign exchange gains/losses. Interest income 
and expense is recognised as it accrues in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Borrowings and other financial liabilities, including loans, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. 
Borrowings and other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest 
expense recognised on an effective yield basis. 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability or, where appropriate, a shorter period. 
All transaction costs relating to the re-financing have been expensed in the year. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. 
Instruments used are principally foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. Further details of derivative financial 
instruments are included in notes 25 and 29.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to 
their fair value at the reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is immediately recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the relationship is more 
than twelve months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the relationship is less than twelve months. 
No derivative contracts have been designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
Hedge of net investment
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net 
investment, are accounted for as follows: gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge 
are recognised in OCI while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recorded in equity is reclassified to 
the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group uses borrowings in local currencies as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange risk on its investments in foreign operations. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
3. Accounting policies continued
Fair value measurement – policy effective from 1 August 2013 (refer to note 29)
The Group measures certain financial instruments, such as derivatives at fair value at each reporting date. The Group also measures 
assets and liabilities (for example intangible assets) acquired in a business combination at fair value on initial recognition. The fair values 
of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 29.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset 
or transfer the liability takes place either:
 > in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
 > in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset 
or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 > Level 1 – quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 > Level 2 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable; and
 > Level 3 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers 
have occurred in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
Fair value measurement
For recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, based on a multi-criteria 
approach, the following valuation techniques can be used for the same class of assets: 
 > discounted cash flow using the following inputs: net current inflow, terminal value, discount rate; and 
 > yield methodology using market values capitalised with a market capitalisation rate. 
The resulting valuations are cross-checked against the initial yields and the fair market values derived from actual market transactions. 
If the fair value is not reliably determinable, the asset is measured at cost model until such time as the fair value can be reliably measured. 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, 
characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. 
Leasing commitments
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term 
of the lease. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 81
Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
Pensions
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period they become 
payable. The cost charged to the statement of comprehensive income of providing retirement pensions for employees represents the 
amounts paid by the Group to various defined contribution pension schemes operated by the Group in the financial period.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they meet the criteria for recognition as a liability. In relation to final dividends, this is when the dividend 
is approved by the Directors in the general meeting, and in relation to interim dividends, when paid.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements
The following are the critical judgements (apart from those involving estimations) that management has made in the process of 
applying the entity’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements:
Exceptional items
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading 
performance of the Group mainly relating to the IPO, acquisition cost and restructuring costs following acquisitions. The Group identifies 
an item of expense of income as exceptional, when in managements judgement, the underlying event giving rise to the exceptional 
item is deemed to be non-recurring in its nature, size or incidence such that Group results would be distorted without specific reference 
to the event in question. To enable the full impact of an exceptional item to be understood, the tax impact is disclosed and they are 
presented separately in the statement of cash flows. See note 8 for details of exceptional items.
Development costs
Development costs that are directly attributable to the development of a product are capitalised using management’s assessment 
of the likelihood of a successful outcome for each product being released to the market, this is based on management’s judgement 
that the product is technologically, commercially and economically feasible in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. 
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described below. 
The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when these financial statements were prepared. Existing 
circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising 
beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Fair value of assets acquired during business combinations
Judgements and estimates are required in assessment of fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired, including the identification 
and valuation of intangible assets. Note 20 provides details on business combinations.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
The Group’s impairment test for goodwill is based on a value in use calculation using a discounted cash flow model. The cash flows are 
derived from the budget for the following five years. The recoverable amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted 
cash flow model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. The key assumptions 
used to determine the recoverable amount for the different cash generating units are explained further in note 19.
The Group’s accounting policy for impairment of other intangible assets is set out in note 3. The Group records all assets and liabilities 
acquired in business acquisitions at fair value. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Further details are included in note 18. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 82
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Estimates and assumptions continued
Taxation
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by tax authorities of the respective 
countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience with previous tax audits 
and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible authority.
Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on the likely timing 
and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies. A breakdown of the deferred 
tax asset is included in note 14. Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, changes in tax laws 
and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, 
or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded.
Rebates payable and receivable
The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements, with the amounts payable and receivable often being subject 
to negotiation after the reporting date. At the reporting date, the Directors make estimates of the amount of rebate that will become 
both payable and due to the Group under these agreements based upon prices, volumes and product mix. The total rebate charge for 
the year is £8,461,000 (2013: £7,607,000).
5. New standards and interpretations 
The following new standard was effective from 1 January 2013:
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an entity 
is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value. IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price. 
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group has included the fair value measurement policy in note 3, which is applicable for 
the period commencing 1 August 2013.
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the date of these financial statements. The Group plans 
to adopt them from the effective dates adopted by EU and does not foresee any material impact.
Standard 
or interpretation Title
Effective for accounting 
periods beginning 
on or after
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (as revised 2011) 1 January 2014
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accruals 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 83
Financial Statements
6. Revenue
Revenue recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is analysed below:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Sale of goods 117,924 99,284
Rendering of services 2,785 2,978
Total revenue 120,709 102,262
Market sectors
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Ventilation Group
UK Residential RMI 43,437 42,254
UK Residential New Build 15,745 14,157
UK Commercial 17,897 17,017
UK Export 7,282 7,140
Nordics
1
 23,705 10,839
Germany
2
3,493 —
Rebates and settlement discount (10,255) (9,136)
Total Ventilation Group 101,304 82,271
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM (Torin-Sifan))
OEM (Torin-Sifan) 19,248 20,027
Rebates and settlement discount 157 (36)
Total OEM (Torin-Sifan) 19,405 19,991
Total revenue 120,709 102,262
Notes 
1. Represents gross sales of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries, PAX AB and PAX Norge AS.
2. Represents gross sales of inVENTer GmbH.
7. Segmental analysis
In identifying its operating segments, management follows the Group’s product markets. The Group is considered to have two 
reportable segments: Ventilation Group and OEM (Torin-Sifan). Each reportable segment is managed separately as they require 
different marketing approaches. 
Certain operating segments have been aggregated into a single operating segment where these operating segments have similar 
economic characteristics and the operating segments are similar in relation to the nature of products, services, production processes, 
type of customer, method for distribution and regulatory environment.
The measure of revenue reported to the chief operating decision maker to assess performance is total revenue for each operating segment. 
The measure of profit reported to the chief operating decision maker to assess performance is adjusted EBITDA (see note 10 for definition) 
and exceptional items for each operating segment. Gross profit and the analysis below segment profit is additional voluntary information 
and not “segment information” prepared in accordance with IFRS 8.
Finance revenue and costs are not allocated to individual operating segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a Group basis. 
Total assets and liabilities are not disclosed as this information is not provided by operating segment to the chief operating decision 
maker on a regular basis. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 84
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
7. Segmental analysis continued
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis on terms similar to transactions with third parties.
Year ended 31 July 2014
Ventilation 
Group
£000
OEM
£000
Unallocated
£000
Total
£000
IFRS 
adjustments
 and
 eliminations
£000
Consolidated
£000
Revenue
External customers 111,559 19,248 — 130,807 (10,098) 120,709
Inter-segment 6,775 1,185 — 7,960 (7,960) —
Total revenue 118,334 20,433 — 138,767 (18,058) 120,709
Gross profit 52,044 5,984 — 58,028 (1,067) 56,961
Results
Segment profit/(loss) 28,540 3,057 (3,773) 27,824 705 28,529
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (13,394) (1,729) — (15,123) 41 (15,082)
Exceptional items (686) (133) (6,964) (7,783) — (7,783)
Operating profit/(loss) 14,460 1,195 (10,737) 4,918 746 5,664
Unallocated expenses:
Net finance cost — — (21,176) (21,176) — (21,176)
Profit/(loss) before tax 14,460 1,195 (31,913) (16,258) 746 (15,512)
The Group overhead costs of £3,773,000 are not allocated to individual operating segments. Likewise, exceptional costs, which 
include the re-organisation costs and IPO costs, have not been allocated to individual operating segments.
Year ended 31 July 2013
Ventilation 
Group
£000
OEM
£000
Unallocated
£000
Total
£000
IFRS 
adjustments
 and
 eliminations
£000
Consolidated
£000
Revenue
External customers 91,407 20,027 — 111,434 (9,172) 102,262
Inter-segment 4,910 915 — 5,825 (5,825) —
Total revenue 96,317 20,942 — 117,259 (14,997) 102,262
Gross profit 40,433 6,142 — 46,575 (558) 46,017
Results
Segment profit/(loss) 26,129 3,328 (4,066) 25,391 (1,573) 23,818
Depreciation and amortisation (10,753) (1,527) — (12,280) 506 (11,774)
Exceptional items (1,292) — (641) (1,933) (845) (2,778)
Operating profit/(loss) 14,084 1,801 (4,707) 11,178 (1,912) 9,266
Unallocated expenses:
Net finance cost — — (13,469) (13,469) — (13,469)
Profit/(loss) before tax 14,084 1,801 (18,176) (2,291) (1,912) (4,203)
Included in total revenue for the year ended 31 July 2014 of the Ventilation Group is £14,538,000 (2013: £10,907,000) in respect 
of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries and £9,197,000 (2013: £nil) relating to Pax AB & Pax Norge AS.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 85
Financial Statements
7. Segmental analysis continued
Rebates and settlement discount (reconciliation of management reporting to IFRS)
The Group recently converted to IFRS for financial reporting purposes; however, the Board continued to use alternative management 
reporting information for making operational and resource allocation decisions. 
The information above requires adjustment to IFRS as part of the reconciliation to the statement of comprehensive income. Principal 
IFRS adjustments include the fair value of derivatives, the identification of intangible assets, the fair value of inventory and recognition 
of deferred tax balances on acquisitions, and the reclassification of customer rebates and settlement discount to revenue, which are 
reflected in the IFRS adjustments and eliminations column.
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Geographic information
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Revenue from external customers:
United Kingdom 76,623 75,066
Europe (excluding United Kingdom and Nordics) 21,877 15,112
Nordics 19,813 9,831
Rest of the world 2,396 2,253
Total revenue 120,709 102,262
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Non-current assets:
United Kingdom 150,801 156,641 167,200
Europe (excluding United Kingdom & Nordics) 13,850 — —
Nordics 15,042 9,032 —
Total 179,693 165,673 167,200
Non-current assets exclude deferred tax.
Information about major customers
Annual revenue from one customer in the Ventilation Group segment accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue. In the year ended 
31 July 2014, revenue from this customer was £14,340,000 (2013: £10,246,000). Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 86
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
8. Exceptional items
The Group discloses exceptional items by virtue of their nature, size or incidence to allow a better understanding of the underlying 
trading performance of the Group. Exceptional costs are summarised below:
Notes
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Inventory fair value adjustment arising on business combinations (a) 201 845
Acquisition costs (b) 850 1,071
Restructuring and acquisition integration (c) 1,198 369
Other (d) — 493
Costs associated with the stock market listing of the Group (e) 5,534 —
7,783 2,778
Total tax credit for the year (f) (224) (204)
7,559 2,574
(a)  As set out in note 20, inventory acquired on acquisitions was recognised at fair value, which is based on selling price less costs 
of disposal and a profit allowance for selling efforts. In line with the Group’s definition of exceptional costs, inclusion of the inventory 
fair value adjustment within trading results would not be reflective of ongoing business performance. The inventory fair value adjustment 
has therefore been presented separately.
  The fair value adjustment in the year ended 31 July 2014 relates to the acquisitions of Pax AB, Pax Norge AS and inVENTer GmbH. 
In the year ended 31 July 2013 the adjustment related to the acquisition of Fresh AB.
  The relevant inventory was disposed of in the same period it was acquired.
(b)  Acquisition costs substantially relate to professional fees incurred in respect of the business combinations disclosed in note 20 
and are set out below: 
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Volution Group Limited 72 165
Fresh AB and its subsidiaries — 388
PAX AB and PAX Norge AS 39 499
inVENTer GmbH 683 19
Others 56 —
850 1,071
(c)  During the year ended 31 July 2014, the Group incurred costs of a further £28,000 in simplifying the corporate structure, £524,000 
relating to restructuring of the Group’ s Nordic operations and £133,000 in relation to the restructuring of the OEM (Torin-Sifan) site. UK 
restructuring costs of £513,000 were also incurred.
  During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group incurred costs of £148,000 in respect of professional services to simplify 
its corporate structure. Costs of £221,000 were also incurred in restructuring Fresh AB following its acquisition.
(d)  During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group undertook a strategic review of its UK operations and its prospective future 
international footprint. All costs incurred were in respect of professional services.
(e)  Comprises advisory and legal costs, including irrecoverable VAT, in connection with the stock marketing listing. Further costs 
of £2,363,000 in connection with the issue of shares have been deducted from the share premium account (see note 28).
(f)  Out of the exceptional items incurred in the year it was deemed that the items allowable for tax was approximately £1,004,000, 
with a potential tax benefit of £224,000. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 87
Financial Statements
9. Finance revenue and costs
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Finance revenue:
Net gain on financial instruments at fair value — 590
Interest received  7 40
Total finance revenue 7 630
Finance costs:
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and bank loans (5,947) (4,764)
Interest on loan notes (6,720) (8,267)
Amortisation of finance costs (8,338) (641)
Other interest (17) —
Total interest expense (21,022) (13,672)
Net loss on financial instruments at fair value (161) (427)
Total finance costs (21,183) (14,099)
Net finance costs (21,176) (13,469)
The charge for amortisation of finance costs in 2014 includes £7,005,000 of unamortised finance costs written off upon re-financing 
of debt in December 2013. In addition, £821,000 of financing fees relating to the new bank facility were written off during June 2014. 
Included in the interest payable on bank overdrafts and bank loans is £144,000 relating to breakage costs of the interest rate swap 
on 31 July 2014 (see note 29 for further information).
10. Adjusted earnings 
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Loss before tax (15,512) (4,203)
Add back:
Exceptional items 7,783 2,778
Amortisation of financing costs 8,338 641
Breakage costs of interest rate swaps 144 —
Net gain or loss financial instruments at fair value 161 (163)
Amortisation and impairment of other intangibles (customer base and trademarks) 13,056 10,145
Adjusted profit before tax 13,970 9,198
Add back:
Interest payable on bank overdraft and bank loans 5,803 4,764
Interest on loan notes 6,720 8,267
Finance costs/(revenue) 10 (40)
Adjusted operating profit 26,503 22,189
Add back:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,932 1,588
Amortisation of development costs, software and patents 94 41
Adjusted EBITDA 28,529 23,818
Adjusted profit before tax is defined as earnings before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of financing costs, breakage costs on interest 
rate swaps, net gains or losses on financial instruments at fair value and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated 
with the customer base and trademarks. 
Adjusted operating profit is defined as earnings before tax, exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated 
with the customer base and trademarks and net finance costs.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before exceptional costs, net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.  Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 88
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
11. Staff costs
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Wages and salaries  22,836 19,109
Social security costs 3,205 2,234
Other pension costs 1,065 883
27,106 22,226
A proportion of the staff costs above have been capitalised as intangible assets as part of development costs.
Other pension costs relate to the Group’s contribution to defined contribution pension plans. Total contributions payable in the next 
financial year are expected to be at rates broadly similar to those in 2013/14 but based on actual salary levels in 2014/15.
Average monthly number of employees in the year
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
Production 470 403
Sales and administration 538 357
1,008 760
Directors’ remuneration
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Amounts paid in respect of qualifying services:
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 1,655 724
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 36 29
In respect of the highest paid Director:
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 1,038 408
Aggregate Directors’ pension scheme contributions 23 20
The number of Directors accruing benefits under Group money purchase pension arrangements was two (2013: one). 
The Group incurred costs of £246,000 (2013: £294,000) from 1 August 2013 to 22 June 2014 from Marcel Klepfisch, Adrian Barden 
and Chris Lebeer for their services as Non-Executive Directors. Following the re-organisation and the listing on the London Stock 
Exchange, the Group Board of Directors changed and the Group incurred a further cost from 23 June 2014 to 31 July 2014 of 
£36,000 from Peter Hill, Tony Reading, Paul Hollingworth and Adrian Barden for their services as Non-Executive Directors.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 89
Financial Statements
12. Other operating expenses
Cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses include the following:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cost of sales:
Materials 37,350 40,409
Direct labour 10,016 8,238
Direct overheads 6,584 5,057
Costs of inventories recognised as expenses 53,950 53,704
Operating lease expense 505 505
Other fixed costs 8,300 1,191
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 993 845
Total cost of sales 63,748 56,245
Distribution costs:
Indirect payroll 7,541 6,166
Freight out 3,748 3,019
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 412 333
Other 4,956 2,862
Total distribution costs 16,657 12,380
Administrative expenses:
Indirect payroll 8,802 4,984
Property and occupation 576 547
Research and development costs 533 1,406
Legal and professional fees 1,256 1,019
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 527 410
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 13,150 10,186
Operating lease expense 7 107
Net foreign exchange differences (71) (59)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (15) (48)
Other 2,092 3,041
Total administrative expenses 26,857 21,593
The Group’s research and development concentrates on the development of new products. Research and development costs that are 
not eligible for capitalisation have been expensed in the period incurred and are disclosed in the table above. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 90
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
13. Auditor’s remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor, Ernst & Young LLP , and its member firms in respect of the audit of the financial 
statements and for other services provided to the Group:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Audit services:
Fees for the audit of the parent and Group financial statements 90 29
Fees for local statutory audits of subsidiaries 142 65
Non-audit services:
Fees payable for taxation advisory services 98 —
Fees payable for corporate finance services* 1,960 —
Other non-audit services — 14
2,290 108
*  In 2014, £182,000 relates to transaction advisory services in connection with the re-financing of bank debt and £1,778,000 relating to the stock market listing. 
The fees relating to the stock market listing are included in exceptional items. 
14. Income taxes
(a) Income tax recognised in loss for the year
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Current income tax:
Current income tax expense 957 2,889
Foreign income taxes 471 80
Tax credit relating to the prior year (330) (201)
Total current tax 1,098 2,768
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,524) (2,020)
Effect of changes in the tax rate 211 (2,963)
Tax expense relating to prior years (39) 76
Total deferred tax (2,352) (4,907)
Net tax credit (1,254) (2,139)
(b) Reconciliation of total tax 
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Loss before tax (15,512) (4,203)
Loss before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.33% (2013: 23.67%) (3,463) (995)
Adjustment in respect of previous years (369) (125)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,725 1,954
Effect of difference in tax rates 211 (2,963)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (77) (22)
Unrelieved tax losses 1 88
Additional relief for research and development (150) (76)
Higher overseas tax rate (132) —
Net tax credit reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (1,254) (2,139)
(c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets
At 31 July 2014, the Group had an unrecognised deferred asset of £41,000 arising in overseas entities. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 91
Financial Statements
14. Income taxes continued
(d) Deferred tax balances
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from the following:
2014
1 August
 2013
£000
Credited/
(charged)
to income
£000
Translation
 difference
£000
On 
acquisition
£000
31 July 
2014
£000
Temporary differences:
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances (76) 18 — — (58)
Fair value movements of derivative financial instruments 73 49 — — 122
Customer base, trademark and patent (21,449) 2,168 — (1,769) (21,050)
Temporary differences (250) 117 101 (340) (372)
(21,702) 2,352 101 (2,109) (21,358)
Deferred tax asset 99 633 — — 732
Deferred tax liability (21,801) 1,719 101 (2,109) (22,090)
(21,702) 2,352 101 (2,109) (21,358)
2013
1 August
 2012
£000
(Charged)/
credited 
to income
£000
Translation
 difference
£000
On 
acquisition
£000
31 July 
2013
£000
Temporary differences:
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances 189 (265) — — (76)
Fair value movements of derivative financial instruments 221 (148) — — 73
Customer base, trademark and patent (25,553) 5,358 — (1,254) (21,449)
Temporary differences 19 (38) (16) (215) (250)
(25,124) 4,907 (16) (1,469) (21,702)
Deferred tax asset 464 (365) — — 99
Deferred tax liability (25,588) 5,272 (16) (1,469) (21,801)
(25,124) 4,907 (16) (1,469) (21,702)
The Finance Act 2012 was enacted on 17 July 2012 and introduced a reduction in the headline rate of corporation tax to 24% from 
1 April 2012 and to 23% from 1 April 2013. A further reduction in the headline rate to 21% by 1 April 2014 and to 20% by 1 April 2015 
was enacted in July 2013 and included in the Finance Act 2013. The Group’s deferred tax liability is currently recognised at 20% as 
management expects the deferred tax to be realised at this rate. 
As all changes have been enacted and the deferred tax liability is expected to be realised at the future rate of 20%, no further impact 
is expected as a result of these future changes to the tax rates. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 92
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
15. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that 
would be issued on conversion of any dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. There are no dilutive potential ordinary 
shares for the years ended 31 July 2014 and 2013.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
Year ended 31 July
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders (14,258) (2,064)
 
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share* 102,205,228 90,840,698
Earnings per share:
Basic and diluted (14.0)p (2.3)p
*  The weighted average number of ordinary shares identified above used for the calculation of earnings per share relates to the following deemed parent entity for 
each of the periods presented:
 > Year ended 31 July 2014 – Volution Group plc
 > Year ended 31 July 2013 – Windmill Topco Limited
The weighted number of shares has been calculated assuming the share for share exchange took place as from 1 August 2012. 
The share for share exchange, gives effect to the sales of the entire share capital (after the reorganisation) of the Windmill Topco Limited 
shares in exchange for new ordinary shares of Volution Group plc.
16. Property, plant and equipment
2014
Freehold 
land and
buildings
£000
Plant and 
machinery
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools, 
equipment 
and vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost:
At 1 August 2013 8,254 2,503 3,954 14,711
On acquisition 3,503 170 788 4,461
Additions 873 724 1,333 2,930
Disposals — (130) (257) (387)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (153) (269) (357) (779)
At 31 July 2014 12,477 2,998 5,461 20,936
Depreciation:
At 1 August 2013 1,729 776 1,413 3,918
Charge for the year 294 344 1,294 1,932
Disposals — (119) (221) (340)
Net foreign currency exchange differences (43) (283) (163) (489)
At 31 July 2014 1,980 718 2,323 5,021
Net book value:
At 31 July 2014 10,497 2,280 3,138 15,915 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 93
Financial Statements
16. Property, plant and equipment continued
2013
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
£000
Plant and 
machinery
£000
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools, 
equipment 
and vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost:
At 1 August 2012 8,004 1,665 2,887 12,556
On acquisition 128 200 136 464
Additions 122 666 970 1,758
Disposals — (28) (69) (97)
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — 30 30
At 31 July 2013 8,254 2,503 3,954 14,711
Depreciation:
At 1 August 2012 1,420 387 557 2,364
Charge for the year 309 398 881 1,588
Disposals — (9) (27) (36)
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — 2 2
At 31 July 2013 1,729 776 1,413 3,918
Net book value:
At 31 July 2013 6,525 1,727 2,541 10,793
At 1 August 2012 6,584 1,278 2,330 10,192
17. Intangible assets – goodwill
£000
Cost and net book value:
At 1 August 2012 45,668
On acquisition of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries 765
Net foreign currency exchange differences 55
As 31 July 2013 46,488
At 1 August 2013 46,488
Adjustment to goodwill relating to Fresh AB and its subsidiaries 15
On acquisition of PAX AB and PAX Norge AS 2,211
On acquisition of inVENTer GmbH 2,138
Net foreign currency exchange differences (725)
At 31 July 2014 50,127 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 94
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
18. Intangible assets – other
2014
Development 
costs
£000
Software 
costs
£000
Customer
 base
£000
Trademark
£000
Patents
£000
Total
£000
Cost:
At 1 August 2013 446 2,133 88,314 33,961 — 124,854
Additions 583 840 — — 241 1,664
On acquisition — — 13,120 4,798 730 18,648
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (1,368) (577) (44) (1,989)
At 31 July 2014 1,029 2,973 100,066 38,182 927 143,177
Amortisation:
At 1 August 2013 9 1,520 12,912 2,021 — 16,462
Charge for the year 31 56 9,424 1,683 7 11,201
Impairment — — 1,949 — — 1,949
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (73) (13) — (86)
At 31 July 2014 40 1,576 24,212 3,691 7 29,526
Net book value:
At 31 July 2014 989 1,397 75,854 34,491 920 113,651
The impairment loss of £1,949,000 represents the write down of the customer base relating to the Residential German CGU, 
within the Ventilation segment, as the value in use was deemed to be below the book value at which it was valued on acquisition. 
This arose as a result of reduced levels of revenues of existing customers since the acquisition. The impairment charge is recorded 
within administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. 
2013
Development 
costs
£000
Software 
costs
£000
Customer
 base
£000
Trademark
£000
Total
£000
Cost:
At 1 August 2012 155 1,574 84,300 31,600 117,629
Additions 291 559 — — 850
On acquisition (note 20) — — 3,693 2,186 5,879
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — 321 175 496
At 31 July 2013 446 2,133 88,314 33,961 124,854
Amortisation:
At 1 August 2012 3 1,485 4,161 640 6,289
Charge for the year 6 35 8,762 1,383 10,186
Net foreign currency exchange differences — — (11) (2) (13)
At 31 July 2013 9 1,520 12,912 2,021 16,462
Net book value:
At 31 July 2013 437 613 75,402 31,940 108,392
At 1 August 2012 152 89 80,139 30,960 111,340
The remaining amortisation periods for intangible assets at 31 July 2014 are as follows:
Customer base Trademark Patent
Volution Group Limited and its subsidiaries 8 years 23 years —
Fresh AB and its subsidiaries 5 years 18 years —
Pax AB and Pax Norge AS 7 years 19 years —
inVENTer 9 years 20 years 20 years Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 95
Financial Statements
19. Impairment assessment of goodwill 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units. 
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
31 July 2014
Residential 
RMI
£000
Residential 
New Build
£000
Commercial
£000
UK 
Export 
£000
OEM
(Torin-Sifan)
£000
Nordics
 Residential
£000
Germany 
Residential
£000
Total
£000
Carrying value of goodwill 20,759 6,377 8,562 3,506 4,996 4,197 1,730 50,127
CGU value in use headroom* 51,031 17,198 21,054 8,643 11,971 33,564 6,406 149,867
31 July 2013
Residential 
RMI
£000
Residential 
New Build
£000
Commercial
£000
UK 
Export 
£000
OEM
(Torin-Sifan)
£000
Nordics
 Residential
£000
Total
£000
Carrying value of goodwill 20,759 6,377 8,562 3,506 4,996 2,288 46,488
CGU value in use headroom* 1,784 600 726 291 3,772 385 7,558
* Includes the net book value of fixed assets (tangible and intangible), goodwill and operating working capital (current assets and liabilities).
Impairment review
Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the Group is required to complete a full impairment review of goodwill, which has been achieved 
using a value in use calculation. A discounted cash flow (DCF) model was used, taking a period of five years, which has been established 
using pre-tax discount rates of 13% to 17% over that period. In all periods it was concluded that the carrying amount was in excess 
of the value in use and all CGUs had positive headroom.
Key assumptions in the value in use calculation
The calculation of value in use for all CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
 > Price inflation – small annual percentage increases are assumed in all markets based on historic data.
 > Growth in the ventilation market – assumed to be static in all markets and is based on recent historic trends with a 2% 
inflationary increase.
 > Discount rates – rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each operation. The pre-tax discount rate 
ranged from 13% to 17%.
 > Raw material cost – assumed to be at the industry average of sales price.
 > Excise duty – no future duty changes have been used in projections.
 > No growth rate has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period other than the 2% rate of inflation.
The value in use headroom for each cash generating unit where these sensitivities would be applicable has been set out above. No reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the cash generating units to materially exceed their 
recoverable value.  Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 96
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
20. Business combinations
Acquisition in the year ended 31 July 2014
inVENTer GmbH
The Group completed its purchase of the assets of inVENTer GmbH on 17 April 2014; prior to this, Volution Holdings Germany was 
incorporated as a holding company on 5 December 2013. Two further companies were incorporated as subsidiaries of Volution Holdings 
Germany, being Volution Ventilation Germany, the trading company, and Volution Ventilation Property Germany, the property investment 
company. The Group acquired inVENTer because it significantly enlarges the range of decentralised heat recovery ventilation systems in 
the ventilation segment and it also offers a channel to sell existing ventilation products in a new region. The transaction was funded 
by bank debt.
Total consideration for the transaction was split as follows:
 > up-front cash consideration of €21,510,000 (£17,705,000); and
 > deferred consideration of €2,000,000 (£1,646,000), this was paid on 31 July 2014.
Transaction costs associated with the transaction were £702,000. The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired is set out below:
Book value 
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Provisional 
fair value
£000
Assets:
Intangible assets 154 10,454 10,608
Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 3,672 — 3,672
Inventory 2,031 99 2,130
Trade and other receivables 627 — 627
Trade and other payables  (29) — (29)
Total identifiable net assets 6,455 10,553 17,008
Goodwill on acquisition 2,138
19,146
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 19,146
Total consideration 19,146
The fair value of the acquired trademarks and customer base was identified and included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill of £2,138,000 reflects certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their 
nature. These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce arising from the acquisition. 
The gross amount of trade receivables is £627,000. It is expected that the full contractual amounts for trade and other receivables can 
be collected.
inVENTer generated revenue of £3,408,000 and generated a loss after tax of £99,000 in the period from acquisition to 31 July 2014 
that is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period.
If the combination had taken place as at 1 August 2013, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have been 
£129,997,000 and the loss before tax from continuing operations would have been £14,939,000. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 97
Financial Statements
20. Business combinations continued
Acquisition in the year ended 31 July 2014 continued
Pax AB and Pax Norge AS
On 22 August 2013, Volution Holdings Sweden AB acquired the entire issued share capital of Pax AB and Pax AS. The transaction 
was funded by surplus cash in hand. The Group acquired Pax AB and Pax AS because it significantly enlarges the Group’s presence 
in Swedish and Norwegian markets. It also offers a channel to sell existing ventilation products in a new region.
Total consideration for the transaction was split as follows:
 > up-front cash consideration of SEK 115,536,000 (£11,384,000); and
 > contingent consideration of SEK 828,000 (£78,000). The performance criteria for payment of the contingent consideration were 
met and payment was made in January 2014. 
Transaction costs of £499,000 were expensed during the year ended 31 July 2013 and an additional £39,000 in the year ended 
31 July 2014. The fair value of the net assets acquired was finalised in the year and is set out below:
Book 
value
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Fair value
£000
Assets:
Intangible assets (note 18) — 8,040 8,040
Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 789 — 789
Inventory 1,086 102 1,188
Trade and other receivables 1,797 — 1,797
Cash and cash equivalents 1,037 — 1,037
4,709 8,142 12,851
Liabilities:
Trade and other payables (1,378) — (1,378)
Provisions (113) — (113)
Deferred tax (340) (1,769) (2,109)
(1,831) (1,769) (3,600)
Total identifiable net assets 2,878 6,373 9,251
Goodwill on acquisition 2,211
11,462
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 11,384 
Contingent consideration 78 
Total consideration 11,462 
The fair value adjustments arose in aligning PAX accounting policies to those of the Group and in the recognition of intangible assets, 
net of the associated deferred tax liability. Goodwill reflects certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably 
measured due to their nature. These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce arising 
from the acquisition. The fair value of the acquired trademarks and customer base was identified and included in intangible assets. 
The gross amount of trade and other receivables is £1,797,000. It is expected that the full contractual amounts for trade and other 
receivables can be collected.
PAX generated revenue of £9,159,000 and generated a profit after tax of £1,094,000 in the period from acquisition to 31 July 2014, 
which is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period. 
If the combination had taken place as at 1 August 2013, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have been 
£121,404,000 and the loss before tax from continuing operations would have been £15,814,000. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 98
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
20. Business combinations continued
Acquisition in the year ended 31 July 2013 continued
Fresh AB and its subsidiaries
During the year ended 31 July 2013, Volution Holdings Sweden AB was set up as a holding company for future acquisitions in Sweden. 
On 3 October 2012, Volution Holdings Sweden AB acquired the entire issued share capital of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries in Norway 
and China. The transaction was funded by surplus cash in the Group.
Total consideration for the transaction was split as follows:
 > up-front cash consideration of SEK 77,967,000 (£7,252,000); and
 > earn-out consideration of a maximum of SEK 9,000,000 (£837,000). At the balance sheet date of 31 July 2013, the performance 
criteria for SEK 2,213,000 (£192,000) was met and a liability was recorded. During the year ended 31 July 2014, the Group booked 
an additional amount of SEK 160,000 (£15,000) relating to the earn-out consideration that was paid in December 2013. 
Transaction costs associated with the transaction of £388,000 were expensed in the year ended 31 July 2013. The fair value of the net 
assets acquired was finalised in the year ending 31 July 2014 is set out below:
Book 
value
£000
Fair value 
adjustments
£000
Fair value
£000
Assets:
Intangible assets 177 5,702 5,879
Property, plant and equipment 363 101 464
Inventory 1,703 526 2,229
Trade and other receivables 2,372 — 2,372
Cash and cash equivalents 520 — 520
5,135 6,329 11,464
Liabilities:
Trade and other payables (3,215) (101) (3,316)
Deferred tax (215) (1,254) (1,469)
(3,430) (1,355) (4,785)
Total identifiable net assets 1,705 4,974 6,679
Goodwill on acquisition 765
Adjustment to goodwill on acquisition 15
7,459
Discharged by:
Consideration satisfied in cash 7,252 
Deferred consideration recognised in the year ended 31 July 2013 192 
Deferred consideration recognised in the year ended 31 July 2014 15
Total consideration 7,459 
The fair value adjustments arose in aligning Fresh accounting policies to those of the Group and the recognition of intangible assets, 
net of the associated deferred tax liability. Goodwill of £780,000 represents certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated 
and reliably measured due to their nature. These items include the value of expected synergies and the experience and skill of the workforce 
arising from the acquisition. The fair value of the acquired trademarks and customer base was identified and included in intangible 
assets (refer to note 18). 
Fresh generated revenue of £10,438,000 and a profit after tax of £69,000 in the period from acquisition to 31 July 2013 which is included 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for this reporting period. 
If the combination had taken place as at 1 August 2012, the Group’s revenue from continuing operations would have been £104,306,000 
and the loss before tax from continuing operations would have been £4,020,000. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 99
Financial Statements
21. Inventories
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at 
1 August 
2012
£000
Raw materials and consumables 7,116 6,600 6,399
Work in progress 1,429 905 936
Finished goods and goods for resale 7,377 5,246 5,262
15,922 12,751 12,597
During 2014, £454,000 (2013: £385,000) was recognised as a cost of sales for inventories written off in the year.
22. Trade and other receivables
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at 
1 August 
2012
£000
Trade receivables 23,748 20,744 17,774
Allowance for doubtful debts (926) (903) (874)
22,822 19,841 16,900
Other debtors 277 303 1,878
Prepayments 2,323 1,182 414
25,422 21,326 19,192
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is set out below.
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
At start of the year (903) (874) (937)
(Charge)/credit for the year (252) (213) 11
Amounts utilised 217 184 52
Foreign currency adjustment 12 — —
At end of the year (926) (903) (874)
Gross trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Sterling 19,405 17,005 16,291
US Dollar 112 111 126
Euro 2,405 1,785 1,357
Swedish Kroner 1,726 1,741 —
Other 100 102 —
23,748 20,744 17,774 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 100
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
22. Trade and other receivables continued
Trade receivables are aged as follows:
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Neither past due nor impaired 19,260 17,972 15,082
Past due but not impaired: 
Overdue 0 – 30 days 1,998 1,351 1,384
Overdue 31 – 60 days 677 256 181
Overdue 61 – 90 days 171 104 73
Overdue more than 90 days 716 158 180
22,822 19,841 16,900
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where 
available; otherwise historical information relating to counterparty default rates is used. The Group continually assesses the recoverability 
of trade receivables and the level of provisioning required.
23. Cash and cash equivalents
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and in banks, net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts, which is nil. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year as shown in the statement of cash flows is 
equal to the related items in the statement of financial position as follows:
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Cash and short-term deposits 10,987 15,943 14,957
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies:
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Sterling 8,103 14,610 13,144
Euro 1,457 662 1,594
US Dollar 255 260 216
Swedish Kroner 839 217 —
Other 333 194 3
10,987 15,943 14,957
24. Trade and other payables
2014
£000
2013
£000
As at
1 August 
2012
£000
Trade payables 7,622 7,662 7,767
Social security and staff welfare costs 2,627 2,042 1,447
Contingent consideration — 192 1,223
Accrued expenses 12,572 9,992 7,660
22,821 19,888 18,097 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 101
Financial Statements
25. Other financial assets and liabilities
2014 2013 As at 1 August 2012
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current 
£000
Non-current
£000
Financial assets
Cash held in Escrow account 422 — — — — —
FX forward contracts — — 68 — — —
422 — 68 — — —
Financial liabilities
Interest rate swap — (122) — (494) — (913)
FX forward contracts (467) — — — (104) —
(467) (122) — (494) (104) (913)
26. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2014 2013 As at 1 August 2012
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Current
£000
Non-current
£000
Unsecured – at amortised cost
Loans from related parties
1
— — — 117,048 — 108,354
Secured – at amortised cost
GE Corporate Finance Bank loan
2
— 53,903 4,200 67,411 3,375 71,625
Cost of arranging bank loan
3
— — (660) (2,977) (629) (3,467)
— 53,903 3,540 181,482 2,746 176,512
Notes
1.  At 31 July 2014, related party loan notes have a principal value of £nil. In December 2013, £34,628,000 of the principal loan note and £5,378,000 of loan note 
interest totalling £40,006,000 was repaid to the shareholders. During the year a further £8,000,000 of loan notes was issued. Immediately prior to admission to 
the London Stock Exchange in June 2014, all the loan notes issued by Windmill Midco Limited were novated to Windmill Topco Limited and then subsequently 
exchanged for shares in Windmill Topco LImited. 
  At 31 July 2013, related party loan notes had a principal value of £104,263,000 and represented amounts due to Windmill Holdings BV, Ronnie George 
(director of Windmill Topco Limited), Adrian Barden, Chris Lebeer and Marcel Klepfisch (non-executive directors of Windmill Topco Limited). The loan notes 
were unsecured, were repayable in 2021 and carried interest at 8% per annum compounded annually at 31 December 2013. Interest on the loan notes was 
rolled up and was payable in 2021. 
2.  Bank loans comprise a facility from GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London Branch and are governed by a facilities agreement. The outstanding loans as 
at 31 July 2014 and 31 July 2013 are set out in the table below. During the year, £11,500,000 of the term B loan was converted into a SEK loan, £41,050,000 
of the term C loan was added to the facility and £12,600,000 of the acquisition facility was utilised. During the year two mandatory loan repayments were made 
totalling £4,225,000. The net proceeds of the IPO were used to repay £61,875,000 of the debt facilities. Post-IPO, the existing debt facilities were restructured 
into a new debt facility (see the table on page 102 for information relating to the new debt facility). During the year ended 31 July 2013, £9,000,000 of the term 
B loan was converted into a SEK loan.
  The facilities agreement gives GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London Branch, as security agent, for itself and any other bank which participates in the 
facilities, a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the Group.
3.  During the year ended 31 July 2014 all the costs of arranging the bank loans were written off to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part 
of the re-financing following admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014. At 31 July 2013 the cost of arranging bank loans was amortised over the life 
of the loan and charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 102
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
26. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
GE Corporate Finance bank loan – year ended 31 July 2014
Element
Principal 
£000
Amount 
outstanding
£000
Repayment 
dates 
Repayment 
frequency Rate %
Term B 26,100 26,100 February 2019 One payment Libor + 3%
Term B1 20,500 17,818 February 2019 One payment  SEK Libor + 3.75%
Term B2 10,600 9,985 February 2019 One payment Euro Libor + 3%
At the year end the Group had two credit facilities: the acquisition facility (£20,000,000), which matures in February 2018; and a revolving 
facility (£13,000,000), which matures in February 2018. Part of the revolving facility relates to ancillaries (£1,500,000), which was used 
at the 31 July 2014 for an amount of £502,000.
GE Corporate Finance bank loan – year ended 31 July 2013
Element
Principal 
£000
Amount 
outstanding
£000
Repayment 
dates 
Repayment 
frequency Rate %
Term A 30,000 26,625 2012–2018 Twice yearly Libor + 4.75%
Term B 45,000 36,000 February 2019 One payment  Libor + 5.25%
Term B1 9,000 8,986 February 2019 One payment SEK Libor + 6%
27. Provisions
2014
Product 
warranties 
£000
Property 
dilapidations 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 August 2013 719  550 1,269 
On acquisition 113 — 113
Arising during the year 923 50 973
Utilised (723) — (723) 
Foreign currency adjustment (14) — (14)
At 31 July 2014 1,018  600 1,618 
Analysis:
Current 1,018 — 1,018 
Non-current —  600 600
1,018 600 1,618
2013
Product 
warranties 
£000
Property 
dilapidations 
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 August 2012 793 550 1,343 
Arising during the period 402 — 402 
Utilised (476) — (476) 
At 31 July 2013 719 550 1,269 
Analysis:
Current 719 — 719 
Non-current — 550 550 
719 550 1,269 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 103
Financial Statements
27. Provisions continued
Product warranties
A provision is recognised for expected warranties on products sold during the year and in prior years. The warranties are generally 
for two years but can range from between one to five years.
Property dilapidations
A provision has been recognised for dilapidations relating to obligations under a lease for a leasehold building and will be payable 
at the end of the lease term in 2022. The additional dilapidation provision in the year of £50,000 relates to the new property leased 
in the OEM (Torin-Sifan) segment.
28. Authorised and issued share capital and reserves
Prior to the re-organisation implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the ordinary shares in 
Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014, the share capital of the Company comprised the share capital of Windmill Topco Limited.
Windmill Topco Limited: year ended 31 July 2013
Number of shares
 A cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£0.001
 B cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£0.001
 E cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£200
Total 
number of 
shares
At 31 July 2013 1,801,000 199,996 4 2,001,000
Nominal value
 A cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£0.001
 B cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£0.001
 E cumulative 
participating 
ordinary
shares
£200
Total 
number 
of shares
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 31 July 2013 2 — 1 3
Share capital of Volution Group plc
Number of shares 2014
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each, allotted, called up, issued and fully paid 200,000,000
In 2014, following the decision by the Board of Directors, the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange. Following a re-organisation 
implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the shares of Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014 
(refer to notes on page 104 for more details). 
As the Group has been formed through a re-organisation in which Volution Group plc, a newly incorporated entity, became the new 
parent company of the existing Group, these consolidated accounts have been prepared as a continuation of the existing Group 
using the pooling of interest method. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 104
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
28. Authorised and issued share capital and reserves continued
The movement in called up share capital and the share premium account is set out below:
Notes
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
Ordinary 
shares 
£000
Share 
premium 
£ 
At 17 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following subdivision of preference shares to 100 
ordinary shares (1) 100 — —
At 22 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following the re-organisation and the share for 
share exchange (2) 151,999,900 1,520 —
At 23 June 2014
Primary issue of ordinary shares on admission to the London Stock 
Exchange (3) 48,000,000 480 71,520
Share issue costs (4) — — (2,363)
At 16 July 2014
Reduction of share premium account (5) — — (57,630)
200,000,000 2,000 11,527
(1)  The Company was incorporated on 15 May 2014, with issued share capital of £50,000 divided into one ordinary share of £1 and 
49,999 redeemable preference shares of £1 each, all of which were issued to Windmill Holdings BV. On 17 June 2014, prior to 
re-organisation and admission to the London Stock Exchange, such ordinary shares of £1 were subdivided into 100 ordinary 
shares. The redeemable preference shares of £1 each were redeemed. 
(2)  On 22 June 2014 the Group was re-organised immediately prior to admission to the London Stock Exchange, which resulted in 
the Company becoming the ultimate parent company of Windmill Topco Limited. The shareholders of Windmill Topco Limited sold 
the entire issued share capital to the Company in a share for share exchange. The capital reserve arises as a result of this share for 
share exchange.
(3)  On 23 June 2014 the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange and placed 48,000,000 ordinary £0.01 shares 
at a premium of £1.49 pence per share.
(4)  Relevant listing costs, which have been incurred directly in connection with the registration and distribution of shares are deducted 
from the share premium account.
(5)  On 16 July 2014 the Company undertook, in accordance with the Companies Act and the Companies (Reduction of Share Capital) 
Order 2008, a reduction of capital by cancelling £57,630,000 of the Company’s share premium account. This amount was 
transferred to retained earnings.
29. Risk management
As a result of entering into financial instruments, the Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity 
risk. The Group’s principal financial instruments are: 
 > interest-bearing loans and borrowings;
 > trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, cash and short-term deposits; and
 > FX forward contracts and interest rate swaps. 
This note provides further detail on financial risk management and includes quantitative information on the specific risks the Group 
is exposed to.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate swaps to reduce 
its exposure to interest rate risk.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 105
Financial Statements
29. Risk management continued
Forward foreign currency contracts
The Group’s purchases in foreign currencies, net of Group sales in those currencies, represent approximately 15% (2013: 16%) of total 
material and component purchases. Annually, typically between May and July, the Group enters into forward exchange contracts for 
the purchase of the budgeted monthly net expenditure in US Dollars for the financial year commencing on the following 1 August. 
Hedge accounting is not applied for these derivatives.
The Group’s criteria for entering into a forward foreign currency contract would require that the instrument must:
 > be related to anticipated foreign currency commitment;
 > involve the same currency as the foreign currency commitment; and
 > reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group’s operations.
Interest rate swaps
The Group’s criteria for entering into an interest rate swap would require that the instrument must:
 > be related to an asset or a liability; and
 > change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. 
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other prices risk, such as equity price risk and commodity risk. 
The Group’s exposure is primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks. 
On 3 May 2012, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Bank of Ireland. Under 
this agreement, which matures on 30 April 2015, the Libor interest rate above the margin related to the bank loan with GE Corporate 
Finance Bank SAS, London Branch is subject to a fixed rate of 1.2550% replacing Libor. This interest rate swap was cancelled on 
31 July 2014 which incurred a breakage cost of £144,000.
In February 2014, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement with Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Bank of Ireland. 
Under this agreement, which matures on 31 December 2015, the Libor interest rate above the margin related to the bank loan with 
GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, is subject to a fixed rate of 1.15%, replacing Libor. This interest rate swap was 
restructured during the year with no breakage costs to ensure that 66.67% of the GE Corporate Finance Bank SAS, London branch, 
loans is hedged. 
The fair value of the interest rate swap at 31 July 2014 is a liability of £122,000 (2013: £494,000).
At 31 July 2014, the Group had commitments under forward foreign exchange contracts with varying settlement dates to 6 October 2014 
(2013: 6 May 2014). See note 25 for fair values. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The Group recognises that movements in certain risk variables (such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates) might affect the value 
of its derivatives and also the amounts recorded in its equity in the overseas entities and its statement of comprehensive income for 
the period. Therefore the Group has assessed:
 > what would be reasonably possible changes in the risk variables at the end of the reporting period; and
 > the effects on profit or loss and equity if such changes in the risk variables were to occur. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 106
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
29. Risk management continued
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the Group’s floating rate loans and 
borrowings which at the relevant reporting dates are not hedged. With all other variables being constant the Group’s profit before tax is 
affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows. There is only an immaterial impact on the Group’s equity.
Increase in 
basis points
Effect on 
loss 
before tax
£000
31 July 2014
Sterling +25 (4) 
Swedish Kroner +25 (15) 
Euro +25 (25)
31 July 2013
Sterling +25 (23) 
Swedish Kroner +25 (22)
The assigned movement in basis points for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based upon the currently observable market environment.
The Group cash balances are held in current bank financial statements and earn immaterial levels of interest. Management has concluded 
that any changes in the Libor and SEK Libor rates will have an immaterial impact on interest income earned on the Group cash balances. No 
interest rate sensitivity has been included in relation to the Group’s cash balances.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk primarily arises when revenue and expenses are denominated in a different currency 
from the Group’s presentational currency. Foreign exchange risk also arises when the individual entities enter into transactions that 
are not denominated in their functional currency.
The following tables illustrates the impact of several changes to the spot £/USD, £/EUR and £/SEK exchange rates of +5%. The tables 
below reflect the impact on profit before tax and equity if those changes were to occur. Only the impact of changes in the SEK, USD 
and Euro denominated balances have been considered as these are the most significant non-GBP denominations used by the Group.
Change in 
Effect on profit before tax
GBP vs USD/
SEK/EUR rate
2014
£000
2013
£000
Swedish Kroner 5% 191 4
US Dollar 5% 78 97
Euro 5% (163) (146)
Change in 
Effect on equity
GBP vs 
SEK rate
2014
£000
2013
£000
Swedish Kroner 5% 12 28 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 107
Financial Statements
29. Risk management continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk for the Group arises from the management of working capital commitments and meeting its financial obligations as they 
fall due. The Group’s policy is to review cash flow forecasts/projections regularly as well as information regarding cash balances to 
ensure that it has significant cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. The Group reviews its long-term funding 
requirements in parallel with its long-term strategy, with an objective of aligning both in a timely manner. At the reporting date, 
forecasts indicate that the Group is expected to have sufficient liquidity to meet its financial obligations for the foreseeable future.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s significant undiscounted financial liabilities at 31 July 2014 and 2013.
At 31 July 2014
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities:
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (including interest) 1,853 51,301 10,119 63,273 
Forward foreign currency exchange outflow 8,280 —  — 8,280
Forward foreign currency exchange inflow (7,805) —  — (7,805)
Interest rate swaps 87 35 — 122
Trade payables 7,622 —  — 7,622 
10,037 51,336 10,119 71,492 
At 31 July 2013
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities:
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (including interest) 8,220 35,576 255,032 298,828
Costs of arranging loans (660) (2,642) (335) (3,637) 
7,560 32,934 254,697 295,191
Forward foreign currency exchange outflow — 9,788 — 9,788
Forward foreign currency exchange inflow — (9,856) — (9,856)
Interest rate swaps 349 193 — 542
Trade payables 7,662  —  — 7,662
Contingent consideration 192 —  — 192
15,763 33,059 254,697 303,519 
At 1 August 2012
Less than 
one year
£000
Between one 
and five years
£000
More than 
five years
£000
Total
£000
Financial liabilities:
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (including interest) 7,814 34,468 265,105 307,387 
Costs of arranging loans (629) (2,516) (951) (4,096)
7,185 31,952 264,154 303,291
Forward foreign currency exchange outflow 8,477 —  — 8,477
Forward foreign currency exchange inflow (8,385) —  — (8,385)
Interest rate swaps 446 533 — 979
Trade payables 7,767  —  — 7,767 
Deferred consideration 1,223 —  — 1,223
16,713 32,485 264,154 313,352 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 108
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
29. Risk management continued
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
There are no material differences between the book values and fair values for any of the Group’s financial instruments carried at amortised 
cost. Derivatives financial instruments have all been valued using other techniques, for which all inputs which have a significant effect 
on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Please see note 25.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations under a financial 
instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily for trade receivables – credit sales) and from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions 
and other financial instruments.
Trade receivables
The Group’s finance function has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed by each business unit subject 
to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Outstanding customer receivables 
are regularly monitored and credit insurance is used where applicable. The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due 
nor impaired is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information relating to counterparty 
default rates is used. The Group continually assesses the recoverability of trade receivables and the level of provisioning required. 
Customers that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group on a prepayment/pro-forma basis. 
Refer to note 22 for the table of the age of accounts receivable that are past due.
The carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance account and the amount of loss is recognised within the 
consolidated income statement. When a receivable balance is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for 
doubtful accounts. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
The Group evaluated the concentration of credit risk with respect of trade receivables as low in view of the Group’s large and 
diversified client base, which is located in several jurisdictions and the Group’s established credit policies.
Financial instruments and cash deposits
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed in accordance with the Group’s policy. The Group deposits 
cash with reputable financial institutions, from which management believes the possibilities of loss to be remote. The Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk for the components of the statement of financial position at 31 July 2014 and 2013 is the carrying amount. 
The Group’s maximum exposure for financial derivative instruments are noted in either note 25 or in the liquidity table above, respectively.
Capital risk management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management policy is to ensure that it has the capital required to operate and grow the 
business at a reasonable cost of capital without incurring undue financial risks. The Board periodically reviews its capital structure to 
ensure it meets changing business needs. The Group defines its capital as its share capital, share premium account, foreign currency 
translation reserves and retained earnings. In addition, the Directors consider the management of debt to be an important element in 
controlling the capital structure of the Group. The Group may carry significant levels of long-term structural and subordinated debt to 
fund investments and acquisitions and has arranged debt facilities to allow for fluctuations in working capital requirements. There have 
been no changes to the capital requirements in the current period. Management manages capital on an ongoing basis to ensure that 
covenant requirements on third party debt are met.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: 
 > Level 1 – quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
 > Level 2 – other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly 
or indirectly; and
 > Level 3 – techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data.
Financial instruments carried at fair value solely comprises the derivative financial instruments in note 25. For hierarchy purposes all these 
instruments are deemed to be Level 2 as external valuers are involved for the valuation of these contracts. Their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including the DCF model. Inputs to this calculation include the expected cash flows in relation to these 
derivatives contracts and relevant discount rates. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 109
Financial Statements
30. Related party transactions
Transactions between Volution Group plc and its subsidiaries, and transactions between subsidiaries, are eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note. A breakdown of transactions between the Group and its related parties are disclosed below. 
No related party loan note balances exist at 31 July 2014. In December 2013, the Group repaid £40,006,000 of the loan notes back to 
the principal shareholders £34,628,000 and interest of £5,378,000. Immediately prior to admission to the London Stock Exchange in 
June 2014 the remaining loan notes issued by Windmill Midco were novated to Windmill Topco and then subsequently converted into 
shares in Windmill Topco. The deposits held by Windmill Holdings BV and Windmill Holdings Cooperatief UA were repaid in July 2014.
At 31 July 2013
Related parties
Loan
£000
Deposit
£000
Interest
£000
Amounts 
owed by 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed to 
related parties
£000
Windmill Holdings BV 103,354 — 12,673 — 116,027
Adrian Barden 73 — 10 — 83
Marcel Klepfisch 49 — 6 — 55
Chris Lebeer 492 — 60 — 552
Ronnie George 295 — 36 — 331
Windmill Holdings BV — 10 — 10 —
Windmill Holdings Cooperatief U A — 10 — 10 —
Total 104,263 20 12,785 20 117,048
The amounts disclosed above represent the historic carrying value of loan amounts owed to related parties. The terms and conditions 
of the loans notes are disclosed in note 26. The deposits are held by Windmill Holdings BV and Windmill Holdings Cooperatief UA and 
do not carry any repayment terms. 
At 1 August 2012
Related parties
Loan
£000
Deposit
£000
Interest
£000
Amounts 
owed by 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed to 
related parties
£000
Windmill Holdings BV 103,846 — 4,074 — 107,920
Windmill Holdings BV — 10 — 10 —
Windmill Holdings Cooperatief U A — 10 — 10 —
Adrian Barden 73 — 4 — 77
Marcel Klepfisch 49 — 2 — 51
Ronnie George 295 — 11 — 306
Total 104,263 20 4,091 20 108,354
There were no material transactions or balances between the Company and its key management personnel or members of their close 
family. At the end of the period, key management personnel did not owe the Company any amounts.
Other disclosures on Directors’ remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for the audit by the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulation 2013 are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Other transactions with related parties include the following:
 > the Group incurred costs of £168,000 (2013: £114,000) from Windmill Holdings BV (the direct controlling party) and Windmill 
Cooperatief U A (an intermediate parent undertaking) for management services; and
 > the Group incurred costs of £246,000 from 1 August 2013 to 22 June 2014 (2013: £294,000) from Marcel Klepfisch, Adrian Barden 
and Chris Lebeer for their services as Non-Executive Directors. Following the re-organisation and the listing on the London Stock 
Exchange, the Group Board of Directors changed and the Group incurred a further cost from 23 June 2014 to 31 July 2014 of 
£36,000 from Peter Hill, Tony Reading, Paul Hollingworth and Adrian Barden for their services as Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director Paul Hollingworth is also a non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc. During the year, the Group sold 
goods to Electrocomponents plc amounting to £194,000 (2013: £170,000). At the year end, amounts owing by Electrocomponents plc 
were £35,000 (2013: £2,000). During the year the Group purchased goods from Electrocomponents plc amounting to £99,000 
(2013: £87,000). At the year end, amounts owed to Electrocomponents plc were £13,000 (2013: £12,000). Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 110
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
30. Related party transactions continued
Compensation of key management personnel
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Short-term employee benefits 2,697 709
Termination benefits 203 —
2,900 709
Key management personnel is defined as the CEO, CFO and the individuals that report directly to the CEO.
31. Group structure and acquisition details
During the year ended 31 July 2014, Volution Group plc held 100% voting shares of the following subsidiaries:
31 July 2014
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Direct:
Windmill Topco Limited England
Indirect:
Windmill Midco Limited England
Windmill Cleanco Limited England
Windmill Bidco Limited England
Manrose Manufacturing Limited England
Volution Holdings Limited England
Volution Ventilation Group Limited (formerly Volution Limited) England
Torin-Sifan Limited England
Anda Products Limited England
Axia Fans Limited England
Roof Units Limited England
Torin Limited England
Vent-Axia Limited England
Vent-Axia Clean Air Systems Limited England
Vent-Axia Group Limited England
Volution Holdings Sweden AB Sweden 
Fresh AB Sweden
Volution Norge AS (formerly Fresh Norge AS) Norway
Fresh Shanghai Limited China
During the year, the Group acquired 100% shareholdings in the following companies:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Pax AB Sweden
Pax Norge AS Norway
During the year, the Group incorporated the following companies:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
inVENTer GmbH Germany
Volution Management Holdings GmbH Germany
Volution Deutschland Real Estate GmbH Germany
There were no other changes to the Group structure in the year ended 31 July 2014. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 111
Financial Statements
31. Group structure and acquisition details continued
Following the re-organisation implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the shares of 
Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014, Volution Group plc became the legal parent company of Windmill Topco Limited 
and its subsidiary undertakings. 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, Windmill Topco Limited held 100% voting shares of the following subsidiaries:
31 July 2013
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Direct:
Windmill Midco Limited England
Indirect:
Windmill Cleanco Limited England
Windmill Bidco Limited England
Manrose Manufacturing Limited England
Volution Holdings Limited England
Volution Ventilation Group Limited (formerly Volution Limited) England
Torin-Sifan Limited England
Anda Products Limited England
Axia Fans Limited England
Roof Units Limited England
Torin Limited England
Vent-Axia Limited England
Vent-Axia Clean Air Systems Limited England
Vent-Axia Group Limited England
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group acquired 100% shareholdings in the following companies:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Fresh AB Sweden
Volution Norge AS (formerly Fresh Norge AS) Norway
Fresh Shanghai Limited China
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group incorporated the following company:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Volution Holdings Sweden AB Sweden 
During the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group liquidated the following subsidiaries:
Volution Group Limited
Darwin Mezzanine Limited
Volution Finance (UK) Limited
Darwin Bond Limited
Willow Plastics Limited
NCA Manufacturing Limited
Sifan Systems Limited
Torin Holdings Limited
Tradewinds Ventilation Limited
Vent-Axia Air Conditioning Limited
Vent-Axia Ventilation Limited Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 112
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
32. Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain items of land and building and others. These leases have an average life 
of between 5 and 15 years with no renewal option included in the contracts. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group 
by entering into these contracts.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Within one year 934 429
After one year but not more than five years 3,153 1,615
More than five years 2,853 5,427
6,940 7,471
Commitments
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as of 31 July 2014 are £362,000 (2013: £80,000). 
The Group has committed to acquire 2,000 HRU units for an amount of €668,000 as of 31 July 2014 during the next fiscal year 
ending 31 July 2015.
The Group has committed to acquire 10,000 black noise units of for an amount of €250,000 as of 31 July 2014 during the next fiscal 
year ending 31 July 2015 if the supplier fixes the problem with the stock that has been rejected for quality reasons.
Contingencies
The Group has ongoing discussions with the UK tax authorities in relation to the tax implications relating to the transaction costs for 
the acquisition of Fresh AB and its subsidiaries. Currently the VAT reclaim is included in other debtors and the amounts exposed range 
from £nil to £60,000 which would be written back to exceptional costs.
33. Transition to IFRS
For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 July 2013, the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (UK GAAP).
These financial statements, for the year ended 31 July 2014 are the first the Group has prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU.
Accordingly, the Group has prepared financial statements that comply with IFRS applicable for the year ending 31 July 2014, together 
with the comparative period data as at and for the year ended 31 July 2013, as described in the summary of significant accounting 
policies. In preparing these financial statements, the Group’s opening statement of financial position was prepared at 1 August 2012, 
which is the Group’s date of transition to IFRS. This note explains the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its financial 
statements prepared under UK GAAP , including the statement of financial position at 1 August 2012 and the financial statements at 
and for the year ended 31 July 2013.
Exemptions applied
IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the retrospective application of certain requirements under IFRS. The Group 
has taken the following exemptions: 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied to acquisitions of subsidiaries that are considered businesses for IFRS that 
occurred before 1 August 2011. Use of this exemption means that the UK GAAP carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are 
required to be recognised under IFRS are their deemed cost at the date of the acquisition. After the date of the acquisition, measurement 
is in accordance with IFRS. Assets and liabilities that do not qualify for recognition under IFRS are excluded from the opening IFRS 
statement of financial position. The Group did not recognise or exclude any previously recognised amounts as a result of IFRS 
recognition requirements.
IFRS 1 also requires that the local UK GAAP carrying amount of goodwill must be used in the opening IFRS statement of financial 
position (apart from adjustments for goodwill impairment and the recognition or derecognition of intangible assets that would have 
been recognised in the acquiree’s financial statements under IFRS). In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has tested goodwill for 
impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 113
Financial Statements
33. Transition to IFRS continued
Estimates
The estimates at 1 August 2012 and at 31 July 2013 are consistent with those made for the same dates in accordance with UK GAAP 
(after adjustments to reflect any differences in accounting policies).
Group reconciliation of equity at 1 August 2012  
(date of transition to IFRS) Notes
UK GAAP 
£000
Adjustments 
£000
IFRS 
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment A 10,230 (38) 10,192
Intangible assets – goodwill B, C 141,128 (95,460) 45,668
Intangible assets – others A, C — 111,340 111,340
Deferred tax assets K — 464 464
151,358 16,306 167,664
Current assets
Inventories D, E, F, H 10,892 1,705 12,597
Trade and other receivables D, E 20,485 (1,293) 19,192
Income tax — — —
Other current financial assets — — —
Cash and short-term deposits 14,957 — 14,957
46,334 412 46,746
Total assets 197,692 16,718 214,410
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables D, E (16,601) (1,496) (18,097)
Other current financial liabilities G — (104) (104)
Income tax (1,178) 5 (1,173)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (2,746) — (2,746)
Provisions (793) — (793)
(21,318) (1,595) (22,913)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (176,512) — (176,512)
Other non-current financial liabilities G — (913) (913)
Provisions (550) — (550)
Deferred tax liabilities C, K — (25,558) (25,588)
(177,062) (26,501) (203,563)
Total liabilities (198,380) (28,096) (226,476)
Net liabilities (688) (11,378) (12,066)
Capital and reserves
Share capital 3 — 3
Share premium 2,098 — 2,098
Foreign currency translation reserve — — —
Retained earnings (2,789) (11,378) (14,167)
Total equity (688) (11,378) (12,066) Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 114
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
33. Transition to IFRS continued
Group reconciliation of equity at 31 July 2013 Notes
UK GAAP 
£000
Adjustments 
£000
IFRS 
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment A 11,309 (516) 10,793
Intangible assets – goodwill B, C 139,678 (93,190) 46,488
Intangible assets – others A, C 158 108,234 108,392
Investments 499 (499) —
Deferred tax assets K — 99 99
151,644 14,128 165,772
Current assets
Inventories D, E, F, H 11,127 1,624 12,751
Trade and other receivables D, E 22,682 (1,356) 21,326
Income tax — — —
Other current financial assets — 68 68
Cash and short-term deposits 15,943 — 15,943
49,752 336 50,088
Total assets 201,396 14,464 215,860
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables D, E (18,485) (1,403) (19,888)
Other current financial liabilities — — —
Income tax (939) 5 (934)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (3,540) — (3,540)
Provisions (719) — (719)
(23,683) (1,398) (25,081)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (181,482) — (181,482)
Other non-current financial liabilities G — (494) (494)
Provisions (550) — (550)
Deferred tax liabilities C, K (372) (21,429) (21,801)
(182,404) (21,923) (204,327)
Total liabilities (206,087) (23,321) (229,408)
Net liabilities (4,691) (8,857) (13,548)
Capital and reserves
Share capital 3 — 3
Share premium 2,098 — 2,098
Foreign currency translation reserve (11) 593 582
Retained earnings (6,781) (9,450) (16,231)
Total equity (4,691) (8,857) (13,548) Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 115
Financial Statements
33. Transition to IFRS continued
Group reconciliation of total comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 Notes
UK GAAP 
£000
Adjustments 
£000
IFRS 
£000
Revenue E, F, H, I 111,452 (9,190) 102,262
Cost of sales E, F, H, I (63,876) 7,631 (56,245)
Gross profit 47,576 (1,559) 46,017
Distribution costs I (13,946) 1,566 (12,380)
Administrative expenses B, C, F, J (20,519) (1,074) (21,593)
Operating profit before exceptional items 13,111 (1,067) 12,044
Exceptional items J — (2,778) (2,778)
Operating profit 13,111 (3,845) 9,266
Finance revenue G 40 590 630
Finance costs (14,099) — (14,099)
Loss before tax (948) (3,255) (4,203)
Income tax K (3,044) 5,183 2,139
Loss for the year (3,992) 1,928 (2,064)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (455) 593 138
Gain on hedge of net investment in foreign operation 444 — 444
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (11) 593 582
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (4,003) 2,521 (1,482)
Notes to the Group reconciliation of equity as at 1 August 2012 and 31 July 2013 and total comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 July 2013. The footnotes explain the material adjustments made between UK GAAP and IFRS.
A Reclassification of software 
Under UK GAAP , software of £543,000 at 31 July 2013 (1 August 2012: £38,000) was classified as property, plant and equipment. 
On transition to IFRS, software has been reclassified from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets – others. 
B Amortisation of goodwill and accounting for acquisition cost
IFRS does not permit the amortisation of goodwill whereas, under UK GAAP , goodwill had been amortised over a finite life and hence 
there existed an accumulated amortisation charge on the date of transition to IFRS. As a result, any goodwill amortisation recorded 
under UK GAAP was reversed in full, resulting in an adjustment of £12,259,000 as at 31 July 2013 (1 August 2012: £4,228,000). 
Under UK GAAP , acquisition costs were included in the cost of goodwill; however, under IFRS such expenses are required to be expensed 
to the statement of comprehensive income. This resulted in an adjustment to reduce goodwill by £5,560,000 as at 31 July 2013 
(1 August 2012: £5,037,000). Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 116
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 July 2014
33. Transition to IFRS continued
Notes to the Group reconciliation of equity as at 1 August 2012 and 31 July 2013 and total comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 July 2013 continued
C Recognition of intangible assets on business combination
IFRS requires recognition of certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination (e.g. trademarks and customer base) if 
relevant recognition criteria are met. Under UK GAAP no intangible assets had been recognised separately from goodwill. As set out 
at the beginning of this note, accounting requirements under IFRS have only been applied to business combinations that took place 
subsequent to 1 August 2011. On transition, this resulted in recognition of intangible assets (customer base, trademarks and patents) 
of £115,900,000 an acquisition made subsequent to 1 August 2011 (31 July 2013: recognition of intangible assets of £121,547,000 
including acquisitions made during the year ended 31 July 2013). This is offset by accumulated amortisation on transition of £4,801,000 
(31 July 2013: £14,926,000) recognised on the intangibles from 1 August 2011. In addition, inventory acquired as part of the business 
combination was recorded at fair value, further reducing goodwill by £5,408,000 (31 July 2013: £6,253,000). The total impact to goodwill 
net of deferred tax was £94,651,000 at 1 August 2012 (31 July 2013: £100,002,000). Intangible assets recognised are amortised over 
their estimated useful life. 
D Goods in transit
Under IFRS, ownership of goods is assumed to be transferred to the buyer when it assumes the risks and rewards associated with 
the goods. Under UK GAAP , goods being purchased by the Group were not recognised in stock until the Group received delivery 
of the goods, although the terms of the purchase transferred the risks and rewards to the Group when the goods were dispatched 
by the seller. As a result, a reclassification adjustment has been recorded at 31 July 2013 to increase stock by £1,415,000 and 
reduce prepayments and recognise trade payables of £291,000 and £1,124,000, respectively (1 August 2012: increase stock 
by £1,548,000 and reduce prepayments and recognise trade payables of £294,000 and £1,254,000, respectively).
E Revenue recognition
Under IFRS, revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when certain criteria are met, including the transfer of risks and rewards 
of ownership of goods, which for the Group is upon receipt of goods by the customer. Under UK GAAP the Group had recognised 
revenue upon dispatch of goods, therefore any goods in transit over a period end have been adjusted under IFRS. This adjustment 
resulted in an increase in stock and deferred income by £464,000 and £82,000, respectively, and a reduction in debtors by £1,064,000 
at 31 July 2013 (1 August 2012: increase in stock and deferred income by £392,000 and £58,000, respectively, and a reduction in debtors 
by £864,000). For the year ended 31 July 2013, revenue and cost of sales has been reduced by £225,000 and £71,000, respectively.
F FX spot rates
Under IFRS, the spot rate on the date of transaction must be used to translate all foreign currency transactions, i.e. IFRS does not 
permit the use of contracted rates, or the rates in matching forward contracts, to translate foreign currency transactions where these 
are not in effective hedge relationships. Under UK GAAP the Group had translated certain sales and purchases at contracted or 
budgeted rates. This adjustment restates revenue, cost of sales, foreign exchange gain or losses and inventory using spot rates. 
G Accounting for derivatives
IFRS requires financial instruments to be initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs with adjustments recognised in profit or 
loss if the financial instrument is designated at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). There was no such mandatory requirement 
under UK GAAP . On 31 July 2013, an adjustment of £494,000 was recorded to recognise the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
held by the Group (1 August 2012: £1,017,000).
H Long-term contracts
Under IFRS, revenue from the rendering of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion at the end of the reporting 
period, a different method was used under UK GAAP . This adjustment is in relation to timing of revenue and cost recognition in relation 
to long-term contracts which resulted in a decrease in stock and revenue/cost of sales. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 117
Financial Statements
I Rebates and discounts
Under IFRS, revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of trade discounts, volume rebates 
and prompt settlement discounts. Under UK GAAP , the Group had recorded rebates and settlement discounts for certain business 
divisions within cost of sales and indirect costs. Hence, an adjustment was recorded to reclassify rebates and discounts of £7,607,000 
and £1,566,000 from cost of sales and distribution costs, respectively, to revenue, thereby reducing revenue and costs. 
J Reclassification of exceptional items
Acquisition-related costs amounting to £1,933,000 recorded in administrative costs and recycling of fair value uplift in stock of £845,000 
recorded in cost of sales are considered to be exceptional in nature and hence have been reclassified to exceptional items in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
K Deferred tax adjustments
Deferred tax impacts of IFRS adjustments stated above (as applicable) have resulted in recognition of additional deferred tax balances 
in comparison to UK GAAP due to the different methodology applied under IAS 12. 
L Statement of cash flows
The transition from UK GAAP to IFRS has not had a material impact on the statement of cash flows. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 118
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position
At 31 July 2014
Notes
2014 
£000
Non-current assets
Investments 7 64,022
64,022
Current assets
Other receivables and prepayments 8 1,120
Other current financial assets 9 423
Cash and short-term deposits 533
2,076
Total assets 66,098
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 10 (731)
(731)
Total liabilities (731)
Net assets 65,367
Capital and reserves
Share capital 11 2,000
Share premium 11 11,527
Capital reserve 11 (273)
Retained earnings 52,113
Total equity 65,367
The financial statements of Volution Group plc (registered number: 09041571) were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 23 October 2014. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronnie George Ian Dew
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
  Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 119
Financial Statements
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the period ended 31 July 2014
Share 
capital
£000
Share 
premium
£000
Capital 
reserve
£000
Retained 
earnings
£000 
Total
£000
On incorporation (15 May 2014) — — — — —
Share for share exchange as part of the Group re-organisation 1,520 — (273) — 1,247
Issue of new ordinary shares on stock market listing 480 71,520 — — 72,000
Share issue costs — (2,363) — — (2,363)
Capital reduction — (57,630) — 57,630 —
Loss for the period — — — (5,517) (5,517)
At 31 July 2014 2,000 11,527 (273) 52,113 65,367 Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 120
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 
For the period ended 31 July 2014
Notes
2014 
£000
Operating activities
Loss for the period after tax (5,517)
Exceptional costs 5,479
Cash flows relating to exceptional costs (4,881)
Working capital adjustments:
Increase in other receivables, prepayments and other current financial assets (1,543)
Increase in trade and other payables 133
Net cash flow used in operating activities (6,329)
Investing activities
Investment in subsidiary undertaking 7 (62,775)
Net cash flow used in investing activities (62,775)
Financing activities
Proceeds from issue of new shares 72,000
Transaction costs on issue of new shares (2,363)
Net cash flow from financing activities 69,637
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 533
Cash and cash equivalents on incorporation —
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 533 Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 121
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the period ended 31 July 2014
1. General Information
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) 
on 23 October 2014.
Windmill Newco plc was incorporated on 15 May 2014 and subsequently changed its name to Volution Group plc on 4 June 2014. 
The Company is a public limited company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK (registered number: 09041571). The share 
capital of the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Fleming Way, Crawley, 
West Sussex RH10 9YX.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements of Volution Group plc (“the Company”) are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling (£), rounded to the nearest thousand (£000) unless otherwise stated. They have 
been prepared under the historical cost convention. These financial statements have been prepared for the period from the Company’s 
incorporation on 15 May 2014 to 31 July 2014.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act and not presented an income 
statement or a statement of comprehensive income for the Company. The loss for the period is disclosed in the statement of changes 
in equity.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including directly attributable 
transaction costs. The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if event or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less.
Other receivables
Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost, reduced by appropriate allowances 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Other current financial assets
Other current financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are not quoted in an active market. They are included as current 
assets as they are expected to be held for less than twelve months.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
rate method.
Going concern
The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.  Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 122
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 31 July 2014
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the Company financial statements requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the actual results. The estimates and assumptions relevant to the financial statements are embedded with the relevant notes to 
the consolidated financial statements.
Carrying value of investments
The key source of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that has a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the parent 
company financial statements is the recoverability of the investments set out in note 7. 
The recoverability is estimated based on the expected performance and value of the investments factoring in potential expected future 
net cash flow to be generated from the investment. The Company based its estimation on information available when these financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments may change due to market changes 
or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected when they occur.
4. Standards issued but not yet effective 
The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after the date of these financial statements. The Company plans 
to adopt them from the effective dates adopted by EU, and does not foresee any material impact.
Standard or 
interpretation Title
Effective for accounting  
periods beginning on or after
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (as revised 2011) 1 January 2014
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accruals 1 January 2016
5. Auditor’s remuneration
The Company paid the following amounts to its auditor, Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for 
other services provided to the Company:
Period from 
15 May 2014 to 
31 July 2014
£000
Non-audit services
Fees payable for corporate finance services* 1,778
1,778
* Primarily comprises services relating to preparation before the Listing of the Company.
Auditor’s remuneration for the Company was borne by a fellow Group company.
6. Employee information
Non-Executive Directors received remuneration of £36,000 for their services to the Company.
Period from 
15 May 2014 to 
31 July 2014
£000
Non-Executive Directors
Short-term employee benefits 36
36
The Executive Directors received remuneration for their services to the Group from a fellow Group undertaking, Windmill Bidco Limited, 
in respect of services to the Group of which the Company is a member. 
Further information on Directors’ remuneration is provided in note 13. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 123
Financial Statements
7. Investments
2014 
 £000
Cost:
At 15 May 2014 —
Acquired in the period 64,022
At 31 July 2014 64,022
Following the re-organisation implemented by way of a share for share exchange made by the Company for the shares of 
Windmill Topco Limited on 17 June 2014, Volution Group plc became the legal parent company of Windmill Topco Limited 
and its subsidiary undertakings, described further below.
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Direct:
Windmill Topco Limited England
Indirect:
Windmill Midco Limited England
Windmill Cleanco Limited England
Windmill Bidco Limited England
Manrose Manufacturing Limited England
Volution Holdings Limited England
Volution Ventilation Group Limited (formerly Volution Limited) England
Torin-Sifan Limited England
Anda Products Limited England
Axia Fans Limited England
Roof Units Limited England
Torin Limited England
Vent-Axia Limited England
Vent-Axia Clean Air Systems Limited England
Vent-Axia Group Limited England
Volution Holdings Sweden AB Sweden 
Fresh AB Sweden
Volution Norge AS (formerly Fresh Norge AS) Norway
Fresh Shanghai Limited China
During the period, the Group acquired a 100% shareholding in the following companies:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
Pax AB Sweden
Pax Norge AS Norway
During the year, the Group incorporated the following companies:
Group company 
Country of 
incorporation
inVENTer GmbH Germany
Volution Management Holdings GmbH Germany
Volution Deutschland Real Estate GmbH Germany
There were no other changes to the Group structure in the period ended 31 July 2014. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 124
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 31 July 2014
8. Other receivables and prepayments
2014 
 £000
Amounts owed by Group undertaking 475
Prepayments 645
1,120
9. Other current financial assets
2014 
 £000
Cash held on Escrow 423
10. Trade and other payables
2014 
 £000
Trade payables 391
Accruals 253
Amounts owed to Group undertaking 87
731
11. Share capital, share premium and reserves
The movement in called up share capital and share premium accounts is set out below:
Notes
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
Share 
capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
£000 
At 17 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following subdivision of preference shares 
to 100 ordinary shares (1) 100 — —
At 22 June 2014
Issue of ordinary shares following the re-organisation and the share 
for share exchange (2) 151,999,900 1,520 —
At 23 June 2014
Primary issue of ordinary shares on admission to the London Stock Exchange (3) 48,000,000 480 71,520
Share issue costs (4) — — (2,363)
At 16 July 2014
Reduction of share capital account (5) — — (57,630)
200,000,000 2,000 11,527
(1)  The Company was incorporated on 15 May 2014, with issued share capital of £50,000 divided into one ordinary share of £1 and 
49,999 redeemable preference shares of £1 each, all of which were issued to Windmill Holdings BV. On 17 June 2014, prior to 
re-organisation and admission to the London Stock Exchange, such ordinary shares of £1 were subdivided into 100 ordinary 
shares. The redeemable preference shares of £1 each have been redeemed. 
(2)  On 22 June 2014 the Group was re-organised immediately prior to admission to the London Stock Exchange which resulted in the 
Company becoming the ultimate parent company of the Group. The shareholders of Windmill Topco sold the entire issued share 
capital to the Company in a share for share exchange. The capital reserve arises as a result of this share for share exchange. Strategic Report Additional Information
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 125
Financial Statements
11. Share capital, share premium and reserves continued
(3)  On 23 June 2014 the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange and placed 48,000,000 ordinary £0.01 shares 
at a premium of £1.49 pence per share.
(4)  Relevant listing costs, which have been incurred directly in connection with the registration and distribution of shares, are deducted 
from the share premium account.
(5)  On 16 July 2014 the Company undertook, in accordance with the Companies Act and the Companies (Reduction of Share Capital) 
Order 2008, a reduction of capital by cancelling £57,630,000 of the Company’s share premium account. 
12. Financial instruments
The Company’s principal financial liabilities are trade payables and Group debt. The Company’s principal financial assets include 
investments, Group receivables and cash and cash equivalents. The Company is exposed to a variety of risks, including credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management of these risks and agrees the policies for managing 
each of these risks. The risks are summarised as follows.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument, leading to a financial loss. 
The Company is exposed to credit risk from its financing activity, including cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks 
and financial institutions.
The Group manages its exposure by only placing deposits with reputable financial institutions and continually monitoring the 
performance of its subsidiaries.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 
There are no material differences between the book values and fair values for any of the Company’s financial instruments carried 
at amortised cost.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the management of working capital commitments and meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. 
The Company’s policy is to review cash flow forecasts/projections regularly as well as information regarding cash balances to 
ensure that it has significant cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. 
Capital risk management
The Board’s objectives and policies for the Company are consistent with those of the Group. Full details are provided in note 29 
of the consolidated financial statements. Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 126
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 31 July 2014
13. Related party transactions
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with subsidiary undertakings for the relevant 
financial period.
2014
Related parties
Amounts 
owed by 
related parties
£000
Amounts 
owed to 
related parties
£000
Windmill Bidco Limited 451 — 
Windmill Midco Limited 24 —
Volution Holdings Limited — 87
475 87 
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Compensation of key management personnel
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be key management personnel of Volution Group plc. It is the Board which 
has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The Executive Directors received remuneration for their services to the Group from a fellow Group undertaking, Windmill Bidco Limited, 
in respect of services to the Group of which the Company is a member. Total Directors’ remuneration paid by the enlarged Group to 
Directors of the Company (including pension scheme contributions) was £75,000. The salary represents an amount from the date 
of Listing of the Group. It is not possible to identify the proportion of this remuneration that relates to services to this Company. 
The Non-Executive Directors also received remuneration for their services to the Company. Please refer to note 6 for further details.
There were no material transactions or balances between the Company and its key management personnel or members of their close 
family. At the end of the period, key management personnel did not owe the Company any amounts. Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 127
Additional Information
Glossary of Technical Terms
Alternating current or AC the flow of electric current which reverses direction periodically, typically at 50Hz 
in the UK and Europe. This is the standard type of electricity supply to domestic 
and commercial properties
AC blowers a low-pressure fan with an AC motor
AC motor an alternating current motor
Airvac a central vacuum system
EC/DC electronically commutated
Electronically commutated a type of motor which historically used a mechanical means of “EC” reversing the current 
flow but which now uses an electronic device to do the same, which is more reliable and 
more efficient
HVAC heating, ventilation and air conditioning
Decentralised heat recovery a system of ventilation that collects heat from exhaust air that would otherwise be lost 
and re-uses such heat by transferring it to the incoming fresh air. Decentralised heat 
recovery consists of multiple units supplying and extracting from around the home
Lo-carbon products a trademark used to represent our low-energy range of products
MEV a system of ventilation operated by a power-driven mechanism which extracts air from 
a room and discharges it only to the external air
Motorised impellers a motor that is supplied complete with an impeller attached to it
MVHR a system of ventilation that collects heat from exhaust air that would otherwise be lost 
and re-uses such heat by transferring it to the incoming fresh air
OEM original equipment manufacturer
PVC polyvinyl chloride
POD blower a forward curved impeller mounted on a motor (“motorised impeller”) fitted into a scroll  
to enhance the performance and provide a means of mounting the fan to the customer
RMI repair, maintenance and improvement
Specifiers persons who may specify certain characteristics of products Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 128
Additional Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholder services
For any enquiries concerning your shareholding please contact 
our registrar:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti has a shareholder portal offering access to services and 
information to help manage your shareholdings and inform your 
important investment decisions. Please visit www.shareview.co.uk. 
Shareholder helpline: 0871 384 2030* from the UK or  
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 from overseas.
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
You can access our Annual Report and Accounts and other 
shareholder communications through our website,  
www.volutiongroupplc.com
Company advisers
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Joint corporate brokers
Liberum Capital Limited 
Canaccord Genuity Limited
Legal adviser
Weil, Gotshal and Manges 
Financial PR adviser
Brunswick Group LLP
Company Secretary and registered office
Michael Anscombe FCIS 
Volution Group plc
Fleming Way 
Crawley 
West Sussex RH10 9YX 
United Kingdom
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 09041571 
LSE ticker code: FAN
Tel: +44 (0) 1293 441 662 
Shareholder enquiries: investors@volutiongroupplc.com 
General enquiries: info@volutiongroupplc.com 
Website: www.volutiongroupplc.com  Strategic Report Corporate Governance
 
Volution Group’s commitment to environmental 
issues is reflected in this annual report which 
has been printed on Chorus Silk, an FSC
®
 mix 
certified paper, which ensures that all virgin pulp 
is derived from well-managed forests and other 
responsible sources.  Volution Group plc Annual Report 2014
Volution Group plc
Fleming Way 
Crawley 
West Sussex RH10 9YX 
United Kingdom
www.volutiongroupplc.com
