 Annual report and accounts 2009
www.vtplc.com
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009
www.vtplc.com
VT Group plc 
VT House 
Grange Drive, Hedge End 
Southampton SO30 2DQ, UK 
T: +44(0)23 8083 9001 
F:  +44(0)23 8083 9002 
E:  vtgroup@vtplc.com 
w: www.vtplc.com
Registered Number: 01915771 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009
Customer focused
Contents
Overview of the year 1
Results summary 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s report 4
Financial review 8
Explaining the Group 14
Customer case studies  16 
VT Support Services  26
VT Education & Skills 30
VT Communications  32
VT Services Inc 34
Discontinued operations 36
How we run the Group 37
Board of Directors 38
Corporate responsibility 40
Key risks and uncertainties 48
Corporate governance 50
Statutory information 55
Directors’ report 56
Remuneration report 58
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditor’s report 67
Financial statements 68
Five-year summary 135
Principal subsidiary 
and joint venture undertakings 136
Principal locations 137
Shareholder information 138
VT Group manages assets and provides 
services that our customers consider critical 
to their own activities. Our 12,000 people 
deliver these services world-wide, primarily 
for governments and their agencies, with the 
majority of the business being located in the 
United Kingdom and the United States.
The common thread running through our 
business is our ability to work in partnership 
with our customers and supply chain. 
Through mutual understanding, aligning 
objectives and sharing risk and reward, we are 
able to create solutions and deliver services 
that are focused on meeting our customers 
needs and exceeding their expectations.
Designed and produced by Barrett Howe, www.barretthowe.com
This report is printed on Era Silk which contains 50% post-consumer waste. The FSC logo identifies products 
which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council. Printed using vegetable based inks and a bio-degradable laminate. Our printer is registered to 
environmental management system ISO 14001 and is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Order book (£m)
0 50 60 70 80 90 100 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000
2009
2008
2007
0 600 800 1,000 1,200
Turnover (£m)
733.0
845.4
1,095.7
2009
2008
2007
2009
2008
2007
Underlying profit before taxation (£m)
51.6
61.6
86.6
2,789
4,005
4,468
Adjusted earnings per share (p)
2009
2008
2007
0 10 20 30 40
20.1
24.1
33.9
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  Overview of the year Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group 
 * Includes share of turnover from equity accounted joint ventures and associates.
 **  Underlying profit before taxation (and underlying operating profit) excludes amortisation of intangibles arising from 
business combinations (£23.0m; 2008: £9.9m), share of joint-venture taxation (£2.3m; 2008: £5.0m), fair value 
movements arising from derivatives (£0.8m; 2008: £1.2m) and exceptional items (£28.3m; 2008: £nil).
 ***   Before exceptional items, fair value movements arising from derivatives and intangible amortisation arising from 
business combinations.
 **** Operating cash as a percentage of underlying operating profit.
  
  The above definitions apply throughout this document.
Results summary
It has been another 
excellent year 
for the Group’s 
services business, 
with all divisions 
producing 
good results.
  2009 2008 Change
 Turnover* £ ,095.7m £845.4m +30%
 Revenue excluding  
 joint ventures £ ,023.6m £730.9m +40%
  Underlying profit  
before taxation** £86.6m £61.6m +41%
  Adjusted earnings  
per share*** 33.9p 24.1p +41%
  Profit before taxation  
(excluding exceptional items) £60.5m £45.5m +33%
 Profit before taxation  £32.2m £45.5m - 29%
 Cash conversion****  05% 98% 
  Full year dividend  
per share  4.4p 13.1p +10%
Financial highlights
Continuing operations 
Key performance indicators
Continuing operations  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 2
Chairman’s statement
Michael Jeffries
Underlying profit 
before taxation 
and adjusted 
earnings per share 
both improved by 
41% to £86.6m and 
33.9p respectively.
2009 performance
It has been another excellent year for the 
Group’s services businesses (our continuing 
operations), with all divisions producing good 
results as we focus increasingly on this sector. 
We have extended our earnings visibility, 
with the services order book increasing 
by 12 per cent to £4.5bn at the year end 
(2008: £4.0bn). We are in a strong position 
to take the Group forward to become a pure 
services business as we prepare to exit the 
shipbuilding joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet.
Turnover from continuing operations 
increased by 30 per cent in 2009 to £1,095.7m 
(2008: £845.4m). Underlying profit before 
taxation improved by 41 per cent to £86.6m 
(2008: £61.6m) with the corresponding adjusted 
earnings per share improving by 41 per cent to 
33.9p (2008: 24.1p). Operating cash conversion 
from continuing operations during the period 
was 105 per cent (2008: 98 per cent). 
This performance has enabled the Board  
to recommend a final dividend of 10.5p per  
share, giving a total dividend for the year of 
14.4p per share, an increase of 10 per cent  
over last year.
Our plans to exit the shipbuilding and naval  
support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet 
(BVT), subject to the approval of VT Group’s 
shareholders and other regulatory bodies, 
will make this year an historic one for the 
Group, bringing to an end nearly 150 years 
of shipbuilding.
The exit from the joint venture will provide 
us with opportunities, both acquisitive 
and organic, to grow our higher value, 
engineering-based services businesses. 
The decision to exercise the put option in 
BVT will give the Group a strong balance 
sheet in the current economic climate.
Our services businesses have all 
contributed to the progress of the Group 
with VT Communications seeing an increase 
in profit margins for the year and VT Education 
& Skills showing turnover and profit growth 
driven by the acquisition of VT Flagship in 
the year and successful contract wins in 
their training business. VT Support Services 
benefited from the start of our two major 
defence contracts, the Future Strategic Tanker 
Aircraft (FSTA) and the Military Flying Training 
System (UKMFTS) which both contributed 
to organic turnover and profit growth. 
VT Services Inc saw increases in profit  
and margins helped by the nine-month 
contribution from VT Aepco. 
In preparation for the exit from shipbuilding, 
we have carried out a detailed review of the 
structure of the Group, which will enable us 
to maintain our leading position in delivering 
high value-added services to customers. 
Going forward the Group will be organised 
into three operating segments, Defence, 
Government and Critical Services and 
VT Group Inc.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 3
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
We are in a good 
position due to 
excellent visibility 
of earnings, 
strong operating 
cash flow, an 
expanding order 
book and a robust 
balance sheet.
People
In March, Peter McIntosh announced his 
intention to step down from the Board on the 
completion of the exercise of our put option 
in BVT. We would like to thank Peter for his 
significant contribution to the successful 
growth of our business, in a VT career spanning 
18 years in shipbuilding and ship maintenance. 
We would also like to thank him for supporting 
the Ministry of Defence when on secondment 
as Chief Executive of the Carrier Alliance at 
a critical stage of that project’s development. 
We wish Peter well in his future career.
As a result of organisational changes in 
the Group, Group Executive Committee 
members Doug Umbers and Jo Robbins 
have also decided to leave VT. Doug joined 
VT in 1998 and has been Managing Director 
of VT Communications for the past seven 
years. Jo has been Human Resources 
Director since November 2004. Both have 
made important contributions to the Group’s 
expansion in recent years and we wish 
them well in the future. The reorganisation 
also means new roles for John Davies and 
Simon Withey who become UK Group 
Managing Directors, with John responsible 
for our UK Defence business and Simon for 
Government and Critical Services. 
As part of our strategy to focus on the next 
stage of growth in our US business, we have 
appointed David Dacquino as Chief Executive 
of VT Group Inc. David has considerable 
experience of working in technical support 
services in the US defence sector and joined 
VT from Raytheon Corporation, where he was 
Vice President, Integrated Support Solutions, 
at Raytheon Technical Services Company. 
Before joining Raytheon, he spent 20 years 
with Lockheed Martin.
During the year we conducted our first 
Group-wide survey of employees. This has 
covered subjects such as how employees feel 
about working for VT as well as their views on 
the workplace, communications, development 
opportunities, reward, recognition, leadership 
and culture.
The survey response rate of 65 per cent 
and overall satisfaction rating of 78 per cent 
compared very favourably to external 
benchmark comparisons. As a result of the 
survey, and the feedback from business 
units and employee working groups, we are 
implementing a series of improvements over  
the coming year.
Outlook
The next year will be one of opportunity as 
VT Group moves from its shipbuilding roots to 
become a pure services business. We believe 
that our new focus will provide us with a more 
stable business with greater long-term visibility, 
financial flexibility and better prospects for 
growth. We will concentrate on expanding our 
existing businesses organically and, where 
appropriate, through acquisition to strengthen 
our offering to existing customers and provide 
new capabilities.
Reorganising the business to create a more 
customer-focused structure will help us 
improve our relationships with customers and 
create opportunities to add extra work streams 
to current activities. The new structure will also 
help us as we concentrate on renewing and 
extending several of our existing contracts.
We are in a good position due to excellent 
visibility of earnings, strong operating cash 
flow, an expanding order book and a robust 
balance sheet. The Board remains confident 
about the current year and beyond. 
Michael Jeffries VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 4
Chief Executive’s 
report
Paul Lester
Over the past five 
years, turnover 
from continuing 
operations has 
increased by more 
than 140% and we 
have consistently 
achieved double-
digit growth in 
underlying profits 
throughout 
that period.
VT Group manages assets and provides 
services that our customers consider critical 
to their own activities. Our 12,000 people 
deliver these services world-wide, primarily 
for governments and their agencies, with the 
majority of the business being located in the 
United Kingdom and the United States.
Over the past five years, turnover from 
continuing operations has increased by more 
than 140 per cent and we have consistently 
achieved double-digit growth in underlying 
profits throughout that period.
VT operates in a wide range of markets 
including defence, education, secure 
communications, waste and nuclear services. 
Our capabilities include:
 Facilities management and base operations
 Equipment support
 Education and training
 Design, procure and build
The common thread running through our 
business is our ability to work in partnership 
with our customers and our supply chain 
in order to ensure we meet our customers’ 
needs and exceed their expectations.
Current year
The progress in our services businesses was 
highlighted during the year by the start of work 
on two of our biggest long-term contracts, the 
multi-billion pound Future Strategic Tanker 
Aircraft (FSTA) and UK Military Flying Training 
System (UKMFTS) programmes. 
For FSTA, VT is overseeing the construction 
of new facilities at RAF Brize Norton where we 
will be providing long-term support, including 
IT. Under UKMFTS, we have started work on 
building new facilities at RAF Valley, as well as 
delivering IT services to the programme. 
VT Education & Skills is now the largest 
education and training business in the UK. 
It has established itself as a leading provider 
of automotive training and has completed 
its first school in the London Borough of 
Lewisham under the Building Schools for 
the Future programme. 
VT’s reputation with its customers is a 
fundamental strength of our business and 
it was highly satisfying to have achieved 
the Lead Supplier position in the MoD DSR 
assessment for the second successive year, 
recording an even better performance than  
the previous year.
We have substantially agreed commercial 
terms with Wakefield Metropolitan District 
Council for the design, build and operation of 
waste facilities in Wakefield. We anticipate the 
contract will start in the first half of our next 
financial year subject to financing.
Performance in BVT for the year has been 
disappointing, with under performance on 
export contracts. These export contracts are 
expected to give rise to losses estimated at 
£54m of which our share is £24m.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 5
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
By the end of the summer, we expect to 
submit our best and final offer for the Search 
and Rescue (Helicopter) programme (SAR-H) 
in which we are teamed with Lockheed Martin 
UK and British International Helicopters (BIH). 
A preferred bidder announcement is expected 
to be made late in the calendar year.
We have also started bidding for the Joint 
Military Air Traffic System (JMATS), a major 
project to replace military air traffic infrastructure 
and provide long-term support. The contract, 
worth around £1bn over 25 years, is due to 
be awarded in 2013.
Although the MoD has withdrawn plans for its 
Whole Fleet Management (WFM) programme to 
outsource support for up to 100,000 vehicles, 
we believe that there is still interest in using 
the private sector for this work. This is likely to 
involve dividing the fleet into smaller groups and 
we are discussing with the MoD how we can 
bring extra value to parts of the requirement.
Strategy
Strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities are to:
  Develop our position in the UK defence 
market through winning new contracts
  Strengthen our position in the US defence 
market by further developing our capabilities 
and revenues to consolidate our position as 
a key supplier
  Build on existing customer relationships  
to generate new business
  Develop our relationships and 
product offerings in local and central 
government markets
  Grow in the strategically significant nuclear 
and waste-to-energy markets
We will work toward these priorities by 
maintaining our core values:
  Passionate about people: demonstrating 
commitment to people, enabling individuals 
to meet their full potential to share in 
VT’s success
  Performance driven: striving for excellence 
and outstanding results through a ‘can do’ 
approach with innovation and integrity
  Partnering with customers and suppliers: 
developing and maintaining positive 
relationships and working together to 
achieve common goals
We plan to grow our business through a mixture 
of organic growth, acquisition and progress in 
new markets. This growth will be supported by 
our reorganisation as detailed below.
New Group structure
Our proposed exit from the shipbuilding and 
naval support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet, 
will enable us to become a business focused 
entirely on services. As provided in the terms of 
the put option within the joint-venture agreement 
signed in June 2008, we intend to initiate an exit 
from the joint venture this summer.
The transition to a pure services business 
represents a major change in VT’s long history 
and provides us with an exciting opportunity to 
take the Group forward. However we retain our 
engineering focus, born from our shipbuilding 
heritage and now an integral part of the 
services we deliver across all our markets.
Our engineering-based capabilities, combined 
with our approach to partnering provide us 
with a value proposition that sets us apart 
from most companies in the services sector. 
This proposition also defines the type of 
services we provide; the management of 
assets and infrastructure that our customers 
consider to be critical to their own activities.
To reflect the evolution of the company and 
to support our value proposition, we have 
reviewed and updated our vision:
“We will set the standards for the delivery of 
customer critical services”
Our strategic direction has been reinforced 
by our reorganisation into three business 
segments – Defence; Government and Critical 
Services; and our US defence business, 
VT Group Inc – closely aligning our offering 
with the customers we serve. 
The new structure enables a more efficient 
use of overheads. We have therefore initiated 
a programme of reducing employee levels by 
a further 290 people (including 40 in the US) in 
addition to the 100 people who have recently 
left the business as part of prior integration 
programmes. Total savings will be £15m per 
annum with £8m being used to offset the 
overhead recovery lost by the exit from BVT 
Surface Fleet. The net saving will be seen in 
the financial year 2011 and beyond. We are 
positioning the Group to be more competitive 
for future bids and to be more resilient if the 
current recession deepens.
The transition to 
a pure services 
business 
represents a 
major change in 
VT’s long history 
and provides us 
with an exciting 
opportunity to take 
the Group forward. Government and
Critical Services
VT Group Inc Defence
• ALC (MoD C Vehicles)
• Light Aircraft 
 Flying Task − RAF
• Tucano Total Support
 Programme − RAF
• Sea King Integrated
 Operational Support
• Whitefleet (MoD
 non-fighting vehicles)
• Bordon & Arborfield
 (Army training)
• Flagship (Naval training)
• Defence High
 Frequency Communications
 Service − MoD
• UKMFTS
• FSTA 
• Training
• Metropolitan Police
• Waste management
• Fire fighting training
• Government agency
• New Dimensions   
 (Emergency services vehicles)
• Nuclear services
• Flagship
 (Engineering training)
• British Airways
• Building Schools
 for the Future (BSF)
• Education
• BBC
• US Army Aviation  and
 Missile Command (AMCOM) 
• Fort Sill
• NASA
• Camp Lejeune
• Fort Huachuca
• Kings Bay
• Space and Naval
 Warfare Centre (SPAWAR) 
• Alaska (US Coastguard)
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 6
Chief Executive’s 
report continued
At 31 March 2009 
we had already 
secured significant 
order book 
coverage for  
2010 and 2011.
The new operating model will allow for greater 
sharing of talent, expertise and knowledge 
across the Group. It will also bring operational 
efficiency benefits from a ‘One VT’ approach as 
we implement shared services for our finance 
and human resources back office functions. 
Defence will be responsible for managing and 
strengthening our relationship with the UK MoD. 
It is important that we retain defence contracts 
which are due to be re-bid over the next few 
years. There is also good potential to secure 
new defence contracts in line with our value 
proposition both in the UK and in other defence 
markets, where we can export our business 
model and achieve benefits for the customer.
Government and Critical Services will manage 
and develop our non-defence government 
relationships, in which we have established 
customers, a strong track record and existing 
contracts that we can develop further. We see 
this as a major potential area for growth. 
Principal areas of development will be 
education, environmental services, police 
and fire services, where we will build on 
our experience.
In the US, VT Group Inc will concentrate on 
growing our work with the US Department of 
Defense (DoD). There are a number of new 
bid and re-bid opportunities approaching in 
the US and we will be employing considerable 
resource to ensure the successful award of 
these contracts. 
VT Group Inc is well placed to address the 
increasing pressures on the US defence 
budget, as our focus is on the upgrade of 
existing platforms, particularly in the army and 
naval areas, in a cost-effective and efficient 
manner. In future there is likely to be more 
pressure to re-use and upgrade existing 
equipment rather than replace with new. 
We continue to seek opportunities to develop 
our capabilities in more technical markets 
offering potential for greater rewards.
We anticipate that the pressures of the current 
economic situation will have an impact on 
customer budgets. Our response will be to 
develop more integrated service offerings 
that generate greater value for money through 
innovation and efficiency in service delivery. 
We will continue to concentrate on supplying 
services that are critical to the success of our 
customers’ operations.
The future growth of VT Group will be based 
on providing a wider range of services 
to our existing customers with selective 
growth in other closely related domestic 
and international markets.
The Group’s principal contracts and 
operations and how they fit into the new 
Group structure is set out below:  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 7
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
The restructuring 
of VT Group 
provides a solid 
platform for 
continued growth 
in shareholder 
value.
Organic growth
Growing our business by renewing, or 
expanding, our work with existing customers 
and within existing markets is essential to 
growing shareholder value. The combination of 
our long-term contracts and recurring orders 
provides a high degree of visibility of our future 
revenue. At 31 March 2009, we had already 
secured significant order book coverage for the 
years ending 31 March 2010 and 2011. There is 
considerable scope to grow in our markets 
and also in the markets that we have entered 
recently, particularly waste and nuclear.
Restrictions on defence budgets, particularly 
in the UK, are set to continue. However, with 
VT’s focus on increasing efficiency, we are 
confident that the Group will fare relatively well. 
We have also identified opportunities where we 
can add value by using our existing customer 
relationships and performance to expand our 
activities into adjacent sectors. 
Our other business sectors, including 
education, waste and nuclear, offer further 
growth opportunities, with both central and 
local government in particular offering large 
potential. In the US, we also expect budgets 
to flatten but we believe that our skills will 
become increasingly valuable for the DoD, 
faced as it is with pressure to maintain existing 
platforms and reduce support costs.
Acquisitions
The current economic environment may well 
present opportunities for acquisition-led growth. 
Our ability to exploit these opportunities will 
be enhanced by the expected proceeds from 
the exit from BVT Surface Fleet. VT expects 
to have net cash at a time when the corporate 
debt levels of other companies are likely to 
generate disposals. We will maintain a prudent 
acquisition approach, concentrating on adding 
support services businesses in our primary UK 
and US markets that represent a good strategic 
fit, complement our core competencies, are 
attractively priced in relation to our financial 
criteria and can be integrated effectively into 
VT’s services businesses.
Progress in new markets
Both the nuclear and waste-to-energy 
markets offer considerable potential for us 
to apply our value proposition, providing 
critical engineering-based support services 
to government agencies.
VT has addressed the increasing opportunities 
in these markets by forming nuclear services 
and waste-to-energy businesses.
The UK Government’s commitment to nuclear 
power generation, with eleven new nuclear 
power stations to be built by 2020, presents 
VT with an opportunity to expand its capability 
in nuclear decommissioning and to develop 
further services for the nuclear industry. 
Plans for each new power station will include 
provision for decommissioning at the end of 
its life, giving VT the opportunity to become 
involved in the programme at an early stage.
Whilst we still expect the nuclear market to 
remain flat in the short term, we continue 
to position the business to benefit from the 
anticipated market growth in the medium to 
long term as the need for decommissioning 
increases and the nuclear new build 
programme is implemented.
The increasing costs of landfill have already 
prompted many local authorities to look at 
alternative ways of dealing with their waste. 
EU regulations require local authorities, by 2013, 
to divest 50 per cent of the volume of waste sent 
to landfill in 1995 to other, non-landfill solutions. 
Having been named preferred bidder to 
build, operate and maintain a waste plant 
in Wakefield, Yorkshire, the Group has 
progressed bids with other local authorities. 
Steam autoclave technology also offers the 
opportunity to produce renewable energy  
from waste, further enhancing the business 
case for these plants. 
Going forward
The restructuring of VT Group and its 
potential for further growth, both organic and 
acquisitive, provides a solid platform for the 
Group to continue to build shareholder value.
Paul Lester 0 800 1,000 1,200 1,400
Turnover (£m)
2009
2008 845.4
1,095.7
20 100 40 60 80 0
Underlying profit (£m)
2009
2008 61.6
86.6
1,000 2,000 3,000 7,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0
Order book (£m)
2009
2008 4,005
4,468
20 40 60 140 80 100 120 0
Cash conversion (%)
2009
2008 98.0
105.0
10 20 30 40 50 0
Adjusted EPS (p)
2009
2008 24.1
33.9
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 8
Financial review
2009 performance
The Group has again grown turnover and underlying profit in all continuing businesses.
Income statement 2009 
£m
2008 
£m 
(as restated)*
Turnover (including Group share of 
equity accounted investments) 1,095.7 845.4
Revenue (excluding Group share of 
equity accounted investments) 1,023.6 730.9
Financing costs (6.8) (4.0)
Profit before tax excluding exceptional items 60.5 45.5
Exceptional items (28.3) -
Total profit before tax 32.2 45.5
Taxation (7.1) (8.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations** 25.1 37.1
Profit from discontinued operations (net of tax)** 83.5 20.9
Profit for the year 108.6 58.0
 *  To improve comparability with our peer companies we have changed our accounting policy in respect of pension 
financing costs/income moving them from operating profit to financing costs. We have restated comparatives to 
reflect this change. 
 **  Continuing operations comprise our core service businesses. The BVT Naval segment is included under 
discontinued operations. 
Turnover
Group turnover, including the Group’s share of equity accounted investments, increased in 
the year by 30 per cent to £1,095.7m (2008: £845.4m). Organic growth amounted to £106m 
while the acquisitions of VT Aepco, VT Nuclear and VT Flagship contributed £144.3m. 
Revenue, excluding the Group’s share of joint ventures increased by 40 per cent to £1,023.6m 
(2008: £730.9m), the additional percentage increase being driven by VT Flagship now being  
wholly owned for the majority of the year under review.
Financing costs
Net financing costs for the year increased to £6.8m (2008: £4.0m), as the impact of higher 
net debt resulting from acquisitions outweighed the general downward trend in interest rates 
during the second half of the year. The financing charge includes a foreign exchange gain of 
£2.3m (2008: £1.3m loss) resulting from cash balances held in foreign currencies and a net 
pension credit of £3.0m (2008: £6.4m). 
Profit before tax
Profit before tax excluding exceptional items increased by 33 per cent to £60.5m (2008: £45.5m), 
with each business division reporting an increase in reported profits for the year.
Exceptional items
The results for the period include a number of items which we have identified as ‘exceptional’, 
being those items which we believe need to be disclosed in order to provide greater visibility of the 
underlying results of the business, which the Board believes to be a more meaningful indication of 
ongoing operational performance. To a large extent the exceptional items arise from the refocusing 
of the Group on to its services businesses and our intention to exit BVT Surface Fleet.
Philip Harrison  
Finance Director
Financial highlights 
Continuing operations VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 9
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
An analysis of exceptional items incurred is as follows:
£m
Profit arising from disposal of surplus properties (4.4)
Increase in industrial injury provision 8.0
Restructuring costs 24.7
Total pre-tax exceptional charges 28.3
Upon formation of BVT Surface Fleet we agreed that VT Group would remain responsible for  
all retrospective asbestos claims from former VT employees. A reassessment of the provision 
for asbestos exposures has been made using specialist advisors adopting current assumptions 
in relation to recent claims experience and mortality data. As a result, the Board decided to 
increase this provision by £8.0m.
The new structure referred to in the Chief Executive’s report and the programme of reduction  
of employee numbers gives rise to total restructuring costs of £24.7m. 
Taxation
The underlying effective tax rate excluding exceptional items increased to 27.1 per cent 
(2008: 26.5 per cent) as a result of changes in the mix of UK and overseas profits. This underlying 
rate has been calculated by including the Group’s share of taxation from equity accounted 
investments within the tax charge rather than as a deduction from its share of attributable earnings.
Underlying profit
The Group uses underlying profit before taxation as a key measure of performance, which is 
defined as follows:
Continuing operations 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Change 
%
Profit before tax as reported 32.2 45.5 (29)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from 
business combinations 23.0 9.9
Taxation charge relating to equity accounted 
investments 2.3 5.0
Fair value movements on derivative financial 
instruments recorded in the income statement 0.8 1.2
Exceptional charges 28.3 -
Underlying profit before tax 86.6 61.6 41
Underlying profit growth of 41 per cent has been achieved from a combination of organic 
expansion and acquisitions.
The Group has revised the measure of underlying profit to exclude fair value (mark to market) 
gains or losses on derivative financial instruments. IAS 39 provides a set of criteria that must 
be met before hedge accounting can be used which, if not met, can introduce volatility into 
the Group’s income statement. The Group does not trade in these derivatives and therefore 
we believe that such fair value gains or losses do not reflect the underlying economics of the 
arrangements and create volatility in the income statement which can make an assessment of 
underlying performance more difficult.
Further acquisitions contributed to the increase in the intangible amortisation charge of 
£23.0m (2008: £9.9m). 
Underlying 
profit growth of 
41% has been 
achieved though 
a combination of 
organic expansion 
and acquisitions. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  0
Financial review
continued
An adjusted 
earnings per 
share increase 
of 41% was 
driven by strong 
performance 
from continuing 
businesses.
An analysis of underlying profit before tax by business division is as follows:
Continuing operations 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Change 
%
VT Communications 19.8 16.9 17
VT Education & Skills 23.6 13.5 75
VT Services Inc 14.1 8.6 64
VT Support Services 35.9 26.6 35
Underlying operating profit 93.4 65.6 42
Net financing costs (6.8) (4.0)
Underlying profit before tax 86.6 61.6 41
VT Communications saw organic growth of 17 per cent in the year due to the operational 
efficiencies on its mature contracts combined with the new contracts for UKMFTS and FSTA 
projects making their initial contributions.
VT Education & Skills has benefited from the VT Flagship acquisition which contributed £7.9m to 
its growth, the remainder of £2.2m arising from organic activities, representing organic growth 
of 16 per cent. Both the VT Training and the education support businesses performed well as a 
result of contract wins and the training business’s greater focus on engineering capabilities. 
Our US business continues to grow its profits following the prior year acquisition of VT Aepco, 
with margin increasing to 4.6 per cent (2008: 3.6 per cent). The profit benefited from foreign 
exchange translation in the year of approximately £1.5m as compared to the prior year.
VT Support Services experienced strong profit growth in the year. Activities in aerospace were 
boosted by commencement of delivery on the UKMFTS and FSTA programmes. We continue to 
invest in expansion of our waste management activities, having invested a further £3.0m during 
the current year in pursuit of identified opportunities.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on profit before amortisation of intangible assets 
arising from business combinations, exceptional items and fair value movements in derivative 
financial instruments. For the year ended 31 March 2009 the adjusted earnings per share 
for continuing operations was 33.9p (2008: 24.1p), an increase of 41 per cent, based on an 
average number of shares in issue during the year of 177.3m (2008: 176.5m).
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations comprise the Group’s BVT Naval segment. BVT Naval includes 
the businesses constituting the VT Shipbuilding segment in the Group’s financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2008. This includes those businesses transferred to BVT Surface 
Fleet Ltd (BVT) on 1 July 2008, the Group’s interest in BVT and the business of VT Motion 
Control Group, which was primarily involved in the provision of stabilizers to the shipbuilding 
industry, and was disposed of during the year. 
Discontinued operations contributed £83.5m (2008: £20.9m) to our total reported profit, 
principally as a result of the accounting gain of £100.8m recognised on the formation of BVT, 
offset by the loss on the disposal of the Motion Control business, the results of shipbuilding 
(prior to transfer to BVT) and our share of the results of BVT. 
The Group’s share of BVT’s results subsequent to its creation includes a charge of £24m, 
representing the Group’s share of additional costs on certain export contracts contributed to 
the joint venture by VT. The Directors estimate that these contracts will result in an overall loss 
to BVT of £54m based on the Board’s experience of shipbuilding together with independent 
reviews performed by specialist consultants. Inevitably there is a range of possible outcomes 
and the overall loss represents the Directors’ best estimate of losses based on information 
currently available. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
At 31 March 2009, 
the Group had 
£175m of available 
headroom on its 
principal funding 
facilities.
The Directors have noted that our BVT partner BAE Systems plc (BAE), in its annual report for 
the year ended 31 December 2008 reported loss provisions of £96m (£53m at BAE’s 55 per cent 
share) through its fair value accounting, consistent with estimates provided by BVT management. 
This loss provision, which has not been approved by the BVT Board, is outside the range which the 
Directors consider to be reasonably likely given available synergies and risk mitigation strategies. 
The projected costs on these contracts continue to be updated by BVT management.
Negotiations are at an early stage with BAE in relation to these export contracts and a possible 
injection of capital by VT into the BVT business in a form which will not impact the existing 
equity holdings or management rights. Any such injection of capital would, however, result in an 
exceptional charge being recorded within discontinued operations in the period in which made. 
Whilst it is possible that an injection of capital may be made, the Directors do not believe it 
appropriate to make any provision for such injection at this stage, nor, given the circumstances, 
is it practicable to estimate reliably the amount of any such contribution.
Further details regarding discontinued operations can be found in note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Capital management and treasury
The Group’s treasury function is responsible for managing the Group’s capital, including its exposure 
to financial risks and operates in line with policies set by the Board. The primary objectives are to:
  Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital and safeguard the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern
  Provide cash management
  Ensure the availability of cost-effective facilities to finance new investment, working capital 
and guarantees
  Manage interest rate and foreign currency exposure
The Board has a conservative policy towards the investment of cash. Treasury instruments are 
used only to reduce risk and speculation is not permitted.
Cash and net debt
The Group’s operating cash conversion as a percentage of underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations was 105 per cent (2008: 98 per cent).
The Group’s net debt at 31 March 2009 was £186.4m (2008: £144.9m) as set out in the following 
table. The increase in the year was largely due to the acquisition of VT Flagship in July 2008, 
for an initial deferred consideration of £65m. 
 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Recourse net debt
Cash 51.5 60.1
Loans receivable 5.8 0.3
Interest-bearing loans (155.4) (185.3)
VT Flagship deferred consideration (68.1) -
 (166.2) (124.9)
Non-recourse net debt (20.2) (20.0)
Total net debt (186.4) (144.9)
The Group’s principal source of funding is £305.0m of revolving credit facilities of which £225.0m 
is available to the Group until November 2011 and £80.0m which was renewed during the year for 
a further two years and will be available until March 2011. At 31 March 2009, a total of £129.9m 
was drawn down under these facilities, leaving available headroom of £175.1m.
The Group continues to operate well within the financial covenants applicable to these 
borrowing facilities. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  2
Financial review
continued
The proposed final 
dividend of 10.5p 
plus the interim 
dividend of 3.9p 
represents a total 
dividend increase 
of 10% on 2008.
The movement in net debt during the year is summarised as follows:
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities - continuing operations 97.9 64.3
Cash flow from operating activities - discontinued operations (33.4) 1.4
Tax paid (20.8) (11.4)
Net interest paid (8.9) (9.8)
Capital expenditure (net of disposal proceeds) (2.1) (24.2)
Dividends paid (including minorities) (24.6) (23.4)
Purchase and sale of businesses (net of cash acquired) 21.8 (74.4)
Other (1.9) 3.3
Movement in net debt resulting from cash movements 28.0 (74.2)
Foreign exchange (14.3) 0.7
Interest arising on VT Flagship deferred consideration (3.1) -
Net debt arising upon acquisition of VT Flagship (52.1) -
Increase in net debt (41.5) (73.5)
The Group’s strong operating cash conversion has enabled debt to be repaid in the year, 
with the increase in debt from the prior year largely being attributable to the £65m deferred 
consideration in respect of the VT Flagship acquisition and foreign exchange differences arising 
on dollar denominated loans.
Pensions
The Group participates in six defined benefit pension schemes with a cumulative deficit, 
net of deferred tax, amounting to £43.6m (2008: £7.0m) which is recognised within the 
Group balance sheet.
The increase in the reported deficit during the year was largely due to a fall in the value of 
investments held within the pension schemes. 
In addition, the Group has committed to make additional payments of £20m over the three years  
to March 2011, of which £5m was paid during the current year. The next actuarial review of this 
scheme is not due until March 2011. The Board continues to monitor the ongoing funding position.
Dividend
The proposed final dividend of 10.5p per share, together with the interim dividend of 3.9p 
per share paid in January 2009, gives a cumulative dividend for 2009 of 14.4p (2008: 13.1p), 
an increase of 10 per cent on the prior year. The increase in dividend reflects the Board’s 
confidence in the future prospects of the Group as well as its strong financial position.
The total dividend was covered 2.3 times by earnings before intangible amortisation arising  
from business combinations and exceptional items (2008: 1.9 times).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the proposed final dividend of 10.5p per 
share will be paid on 13 August 2009 to shareholders on the register at 10 July 2009.
Critical accounting policies
The Group’s accounting policies are set out on pages 73 to 81. In order to prepare our financial 
statements in accordance with these policies, management has used various judgements and 
assumptions to estimate the amounts at which certain items are recorded. Actual results may 
therefore differ from the estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions. 
The following are the policies considered to be critical, as the judgements and assumptions 
made could have a significant impact on the Group’s results and financial condition. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  3
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Retirement benefits
Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves judgement about certain 
events, including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates 
of return on plan assets and determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations. 
Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the Group’s defined benefit pension plans 
impacts on the recorded amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of 
benefit expense in the income statement. The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which 
will affect future results. Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome may 
also affect future results. Pension benefit assumptions are discussed and agreed with independent 
actuaries in March each year and are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year 
end, hence the deficits recorded on the Group’s balance sheet, and the pension expense for the 
following year.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has either been disposed of or is 
classified as held for sale. Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying 
value will be recovered through disposal rather than continuing use within the business and the 
asset is available for sale in its present condition and the sale is highly probable. The Group has 
determined that the transfer of our shipbuilding business in the year to BVT and the planned 
exercise of the put option held over its interest in that joint venture results in that interest meeting 
the criteria to be treated as an asset held for sale and the BVT Naval segment meeting the criteria 
of a discontinued operation. In reaching that conclusion management has exercised a judgement 
that there are no significant matters at 31 March 2009 which would prevent the option being 
exercised in accordance with its terms.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the 
Group and that revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue recognised is measured at the fair 
value of the consideration receivable for services delivered. In assessing the amount of revenue 
to be recognised, management makes judgements and assumptions regarding the percentage of 
completion of a project (in respect of an infrastructure or long-term capital project) and assesses 
the fair value of different service elements of a contract so that an appropriate amount of revenue 
can be recognised during the different phases. 
Taxation
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in 
relation to tax issues and exposures. Amounts provided are based on management’s interpretation 
of country-specific law and the likelihood of settlement. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the 
tax positions are likely to be sustained. 
Goodwill and other intangible assets
The Group has capitalised goodwill included on the balance sheet of £303m at 31 March 2009. 
Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if changes in 
circumstances or the occurrence of events indicate potential impairment exists. The Group uses 
the present value of future cash flows to determine implied fair value. In calculating the implied fair 
value, significant management judgement is required in forecasting cash flows of the reporting 
unit, in estimating terminal growth values and in selecting an appropriate discount rate. If different 
management judgements were adopted, then different impairment outcomes could result. 
No impairment resulted from the annual impairment test in 2009.
Philip Harrison VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  4
Through its 
acquisition in 
2008 of British 
Nuclear Fuels’ 
Project Services, 
VT Group is 
now an active 
player in the 
nuclear industry, 
both in the UK 
and overseas. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  5
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Explaining 
the Group
VT Group supports customers in a wide 
range of market sectors. What links these 
customers together is the importance that the 
VT-delivered services have to their own core 
business. This can only be achieved through 
trust, partnering and customer focus.
The following pages showcase some of 
our contracts and provides an update on 
our business operations.
Explaining the Group  
Customer case studies 16
VT Support Services 26
VT Education & Skills 30
VT Communications 32
VT Services Inc 34
Discontinued operations 36 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  6
Creating the system 
to provide flying training.
The UK’s armed forces have some of the best 
aircrew in the world. The training they receive 
is vital for the ongoing success of missions, 
from protecting ground operations through 
transporting humanitarian aid to providing 
search and rescue services around Britain’s 
coastline. With our partner Lockheed Martin, 
we are working with the Ministry of Defence 
to create a world-class training system that 
delivers the right number of aircrew with the 
right skills to meet the demands of current 
and future operational requirements.
Ascent is a joint 
venture between VT 
Group and Lockheed 
Martin, and is the 
MoD’s partner on the 
25-year UK Military 
Flying Training System 
programme. Ascent’s 
responsibilities 
include curriculum 
development, some 
instruction and the 
management of the 
associated facilities 
and training assets. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  7
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
The UK Military 
Flying Training 
System partnership 
will provide trained 
pilots, weapons 
systems officers 
and rear crew for  
all of the UK’s 
front-line military 
aircraft, ranging 
from helicopters 
and multi-engined 
aircraft through 
to advanced 
fighters such as 
the Typhoon. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  8
Today’s emergency services need to 
be equipped for all manner of incidents. 
Besides their established role, they are in 
the front line in times of natural disasters, 
urban search and rescue calls and extreme 
threats such as terrorism. Each incident 
requires specialist equipment and, through 
our capability management role for the 
New Dimension fleet of emergency vehicles 
and equipment modules, it is VT’s job to 
make sure that equipment is in the right place 
at the right time ready for use in potentially 
life-saving operations.
VT started work in 
October 2008 on 
a 16-year project 
to provide support 
services for over 500 
vehicles and modules 
and more than 30,000 
items of specialist 
equipment used by fire 
and rescue services to 
deal with emergencies 
beyond their normal 
call of duty.
Ensuring the 
emergency services get 
the equipment they need. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009  9
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Throughout 
England and 
Wales, fire and 
rescue services 
are required 
to respond to 
a wide range 
of emergency 
scenarios, such 
as collapsed 
buildings, floods 
or even chemical, 
nuclear and 
biological attacks. 
VT provides nearly 
50 authorities 
with the vehicles 
and equipment 
they need to meet 
these demands 
effectively. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 20
In everyday civilian life, we often take for 
granted the boxes, cubicles and equipment 
that allow us to communicate with others. 
But for the military on deployed operations, 
these vital components have to be taken with 
them wherever they go. VT builds modular 
systems that provide communications, power 
distribution and command facilities, robust 
enough to be rapidly airlifted and used within 
the harshest of environments.
VT fits out 
Mobile, Modular 
Communications 
Units (MMCU’s) for 
US forces at its facility 
in South Carolina. In 
addition to providing 
infrastructure, VT also 
operates in-theatre, 
providing technical 
services such as oil 
analysis and aircraft 
logistic support.
Building the 
infrastructure that keeps 
the military connected. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 2 Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
A number of 
VT-designed 
MMCU’s are now 
being used in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. 
As well as those 
used for tactical 
communications, 
other units are 
being used for 
systems such as 
power distribution, 
IT networks 
and satellite 
communications.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 22
Students require a stimulating learning 
environment to ensure that they fulfil their 
potential. The London Borough of Lewisham 
is carrying out one of the most ambitious 
Building Schools for the Future programmes 
in the country, including the supply of an 
innovative and bespoke Information and 
Communications Technology (ICT) solution 
designed to improve the life chances 
of children and young people. This is 
backed by leading suppliers and designed, 
implemented and supported by VT.
VT is providing ICT 
managed services, 
including supplying 
the latest hardware 
and ongoing support, 
and transformational 
training with 
teachers and staff. 
The commitment also 
involves supporting 
15,500 students and 
hundreds of staff 
across the life of 
the project.
Providing the 
technology that helps 
bring lessons alive. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 23
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
The recently 
opened Catford 
High School offers 
students enhanced 
ICT, such as the 
art department’s 
video wall, that 
lets students get 
up close to art in a 
way not possible 
using text books 
and traditional 
computers. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 24
For the millions of people who live in 
less stable parts of the world, getting an 
impartial view of events can be very difficult. 
To address this, Fondation Hirondelle was 
formed in 1995 and today broadcasts radio 
programmes in 30 different languages 
into areas suffering or recovering from 
conflict, ranging from West Africa to Nepal. 
The foundation uses VT infrastructure to help 
them reach their audiences in Sierra Leone 
and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Fondation Hirondelle’s 
services for West 
Africa are controlled 
from VT’s Media 
Management Centre in 
London. This state-of-
the-art facility directs 
the programmes to 
the necessary sites 
in Southern England 
and South Africa, 
which then transmits 
the short-wave radio 
signals into the region. 
Delivering the 
news they need to know. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 25
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Every day 
throughout the 
year, VT carries 
radio programmes 
into the remotest 
areas of Africa, 
providing the 
population with 
valuable and 
trustworthy 
information. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 26
Over 600 students 
pass through the 
Armour Centre 
at Bovington, 
Dorset every 
year. VT manages 
some 169 tracked 
vehicles in support 
of this training 
programme, as 
well as delivering 
the training in both  
the classroom 
and the field. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 27
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
VT Support Services
Highlights
2009 saw significant growth 
in both turnover (40%) and 
underlying operating profit 
(35%), complemented by 
order book growth arising from 
extensions to existing contracts 
and major contract wins. 
  Up to £3bn UK Military Flying 
Training System contract 
award and initial delivery 
  Delivery of Future Strategic 
Tanker Aircraft initial 
milestones
  £100m New Dimension 
contract award and initial 
delivery
  £160m Light Aircraft Flying 
Task award
  £40m extensions of Bordon 
and Arborfield contracts
Financial highlights
Margin (%)
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
9.1
8.8 2009
2008
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
Turnover (£m)
293.0
410.1 2009
2008
Underlying operating profit (£m)
0 10 20 30 40 50
26.6
35.9 2009
2008
VT Support Services (VTSS) operates in the 
defence, emergency and commercial sectors, 
delivering customer-critical services through 
the provision and support of assets. We also 
offer complex engineering solutions in the 
nuclear and waste-to-energy sectors.
2009 performance 
UK Military Flying Training System (UKMFTS): 
June 2008 saw the award of a 25-year contract 
for the UKMFTS to Ascent, our joint venture 
with Lockheed Martin UK. Ascent, as the 
Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) training system 
partner, will now train all UK military aircrew 
including fast jet, rotary wing and multi-engine 
pilots. VTSS has started work on the initial 
package for the construction of a training 
school and maintenance facility at RAF Valley, 
Wales, in support of advanced jet training.
Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft (FSTA) 
programme: VTSS has successfully completed 
early milestones in the construction of facilities 
at RAF Brize Norton to support the A330 
tanker aircraft.
New Dimension long-term capability contract: 
We made further advances in the fire services 
sector with the award and successful 
implementation of the UK Government’s 16-year 
(£100m) contract in support of UK civil resilience.
Light Aircraft Flying Task: VTSS signed a 
£160m contract to deliver initial military flying  
training to all three armed forces over a 
10-year period. This expands current activities 
to enable up to 57,000 flying hours per year 
through the provision of aircraft, associated 
support and instructors.
Training at Bordon and Arborfield garrisons: 
We secured further extensions to our Bordon 
and Arborfield training and support contracts 
until 2011, at a value of more than £40m.
Having won the Training, Maintenance and 
Support Services (TMASS) contract in 2008, 
we successfully completed implementation, 
and commenced delivery of, training and 
support activities to the British Army at 
Bovington garrison.
The year ended 31 March 2009 also saw the 
successful beginning of the Sea King Integrated 
Operational Support (SKIOS) contract, to 
maintain the Search and Rescue Sea King 
fleet across the UK and in the Falklands.
AirKnight, our joint venture with Lockheed 
Martin UK, is now one of only two remaining 
bidders for the UK’s multi-billion pound 
Search and Rescue (Helicopter) (SAR-H) 
programme. We anticipate a preferred bidder 
decision in late 2009.
Last year, VT won an additional contract with the 
Metropolitan Police to maintain 250 territorial support 
vehicles. This complements the existing contract to maintain 
the force’s 4,000 cars, bikes and other specialist vehicles. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 28
VT Support Services
continued
We have further consolidated our position in 
the emergency services sector by securing 
support contracts for the Metropolitan Police 
Service’s 250 territorial support vehicles. 
This supplements our existing support of their 
fleet of cars, motorbikes and other vehicles.
VT Nuclear Services has restructured 
operations to expand beyond our traditional 
nuclear waste and decommissioning market 
and reduce costs. We have secured two 
key framework contracts with the Nuclear 
Installations Inspectorate to support the 
licensing of new reactors in the UK, and we 
have a framework agreement with British 
Energy to provide engineering support to  
its operating plants.
VT Environmental Engineering has substantially 
agreed commercial terms on a £750m contract 
with Wakefield Metropolitan District Council 
for the design, build and operation of waste 
facilities in Wakefield over 25 years. Planning 
consent has been achieved for the 13-acre site 
at South Kirkby, which will accommodate the 
main facility, and for the transfer loading station 
in Wakefield. We anticipate the contract will start 
in the first half of the year ending 31 March 2010, 
subject to financing.
Going forward
While the defence sector continues to 
experience operational and budgetary 
pressures, VT as one of the MOD’s highest 
ranked suppliers, remains strongly positioned to 
secure the additional outsourcing opportunities 
we anticipate will now arise. Similarly, financial 
pressure in the emergency services and airline 
sectors is likely to act as a catalyst for further 
outsourcing opportunities, and will drive 
consolidation of customer vehicle fleets.
We believe that activity in the nuclear services 
market, particularly related to the UK new build 
programme, will start to accelerate over the next 
18 months. We also remain confident that the 
waste-to-energy market will grow substantially 
as the urgency to reduce landfill increases.
VT, as one of the 
MoD’s highest 
ranked suppliers, 
remains strongly 
positioned to 
secure additional 
outsourcing 
opportunities.
The requirement to reduce the amount of landfill activity 
means that local authorities are increasingly seeking 
alternative ways of dealing with their residual waste. 
VT has developed technology using a steam autoclave 
process that transforms residual waste into a fibre that 
can be treated to produce energy. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 29
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Associated 
British Ports 
Marine Officer 
Nigel Haybittle 
and Marine Pilot 
Paul Twelftree 
are part of the 
team who help 
to carry out over 
10,000 piloted 
vessel moves a 
year at the ports 
of Southampton 
and Portsmouth. 
VT-owned and 
maintained 
launches are used 
to transport pilots 
to and from ships 
that range from 
giant container 
vessels to some of 
the world’s biggest 
passenger ships. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 30
Peter Lee is 
one of around 
50 apprentices 
a year British 
Energy sends to 
the dedicated 
engineering 
academy managed 
by VT at the 
Royal Navy’s HMS 
Sultan training 
establishment 
in Hampshire. 
The facilities, 
including specialist 
areas for nuclear 
engineering 
training, are also 
used by several 
other leading 
engineering 
companies in their 
apprentice training. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 3 Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
VT Education & Skills
Highlights
2009 was a year of strong 
performance and growth for 
VTE&S. Turnover increased by 
31% and underlying operating 
profit by 75%.
  Integration of VT Flagship, 
following acquisition of 
remaining 50% share from 
BAE Systems
  Strong trading performance 
of training, including contract 
wins with VW Group, BMW 
Group and British Energy
  Opening of first school 
under the Lewisham 
Building Schools for the 
Future contract 
  Implementation of Waltham 
Forest school improvement 
programme.
Financial highlights
Underlying operating profit (£m)
0 10 5 15 20 25 30
Margin (%)
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
0 100 50 150 200 250 300 350
Turnover (£m)
6.6
8.8 2009
2008
203.8
267.3 2009
2008
13.5
23.6 2009
2008
VT Education & Skills (VTE&S) is the UK’s 
largest education and training business. 
Our activities include supporting schools, 
providing work-based training and supplying 
training solutions and integrated support 
services to the Royal Navy.
2009 performance
Integration of VT Flagship: We completed our 
acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent share 
of Flagship from BAE Systems on 1 July 2008. 
This made VTE&S the largest education and 
training business in the UK. 
Strong performance in vocational training: 
An increased focus on engineering work-based 
learning led to major contract wins with key 
employers in the automotive and energy 
sectors, including BMW Group, VW Group and 
British Energy. The value of these contracts is 
some £70m.
Building Schools for the Future (BSF), 
Lewisham: We opened our first school in 
Lewisham in January 2009 as part of our BSF 
contract, in partnership with Costain. VTE&S is 
contracted to provide transformational learning 
consultancy, Information Communications 
Technology (ICT) managed services, and 
facilities management services for up to 
25 years in an integrated model that brings 
innovation and value for money. 
School improvement and support services: 
We have successfully begun our new school 
improvement contract for the 80 schools in 
Waltham Forest. Our major school support 
services contract across the 403 schools in 
Surrey also continues to run well, with our work 
contributing to the best GCSE results ever for 
the county. 
In Careers Guidance, we have secured 
the South East regional NextSteps (adult 
guidance) contract, and several Connexions 
(youth guidance) contracts. Together these 
contracts are valued at £10m. VT has also been 
named preferred bidder for the ‘Response to 
Redundancy’ programme valued at £10m.
On the military side, we have built on our 
substantial naval training programme through 
VT Flagship, with new multi-activity contracts 
for the Royal Air Force at RAF Cosford and 
RAF Brampton Wyton Henlow. These are 
valued at £13m and £30m respectively.
VTE&S has demonstrated its commitment  
to the environment by being awarded the  
Grey Fleet Hero’s Award from the Energy 
Saving Trust, in recognition of efforts made 
to reduce carbon emissions through offering 
fuel-efficient vehicles to staff. 
Going forward
The UK Government’s commitment to both 
the education and the skills agendas continue 
to make the market attractive for VTE&S. 
Current economic conditions demonstrate 
the need for individuals and businesses 
to acquire skills as they seek to enhance 
their competitiveness. 
Despite difficulties in the credit market which 
have impacted some private finance initiatives, 
we believe that the BSF programme will continue 
to progress. Having most recently been selected 
as part of a successful consortium in the 
Borough of Luton, VTE&S is well positioned  
to benefit as this programme matures.
Catford High School is 
the second new school to 
be opened in the Borough 
of Lewisham under the 
Building Schools for the 
Future programme being 
carried out by Learning21, 
the consortium between 
VT and Costain Group. 
VT is now providing 
managed ICT and 
facilities management 
services to the school 
and its 900 students. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 32
Differential Global 
Positioning Service 
(DGPS) is a key 
element enabling 
vessels to safely 
navigate the seas 
around the coast of 
the UK and Ireland. 
VT is replacing 14 
DGPS reference 
stations, along 
with six monitor 
and four control 
stations, as part 
of its work for the 
General Lighthouse 
Authorities (GLAs). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 33
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Members of the successful BBC/VT team with Sir David 
Attenborough at the BBC Global News Reith Awards 2009.
VT Communications
Highlights
Underlying operating 
profit growth of 17%  
with an improvement in  
margin of 1.4%.
  Initial milestones achieved 
in FSTA and UKMFTS ICT 
programmes
  Digital Terrestrial Television 
(DTTV) contract with Arqiva 
broadened
  Received BBC award for 
excellence in partnering  
and service delivery 
Financial highlights
0 10 5 15 20 25 30
Margin (%)
0 5 10 15 20 25
0 40 20 60 80 100 120 140
Turnover (£m)
Underlying operating profit (£m)
15.8
17.2 2009
2008
107.2
115.1 2009
2008
16.9
19.8 2009
2008
VT Communications (VTC) designs, builds 
and operates communications infrastructure 
where security and resilience are critical.
2009 performance
UK Military Flying Training System (UKMFTS) 
and Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft (FSTA) 
ICT programmes: Continued profit growth 
was underpinned by an expansion of our 
Information Communications Technology (ICT) 
capability. Key project milestones have been 
achieved on both projects which we are 
delivering, primarily through our sub-contracts 
held with VT Support Services. 
Additional DTTV contract with Arqiva: 
We have successfully delivered DTTV 
low-power infrastructure in the Selkirk 
television region for digital switchover (DSO) 
in the UK. A £9m contract with Arqiva will see 
us install low-power infrastructure for DSO at 
sites across the country. This work has now 
been extended through a new contract worth 
an additional minimum of £7m.
Partnering excellence recognised by the BBC: 
VTC won a BBC Global news professional 
services award recognising its partnering 
approach with the BBC World Service. 
This reflected the success of the team in 
improving operational performance in the 
business and establishing a new network 
operations centre, jointly operated by 
VTC and the BBC. 
Going forward
VTC is competing for the Joint Military 
Air Traffic Services (JMATS) Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) programme, due to be 
awarded in 2013. This £1bn programme will 
deliver a solution for air traffic and related  
data management services to the UK military  
in the UK and overseas. 
We are also engaging with potential 
industry partners to participate in the 
multi-billion pound Future Core Networks 
(FCN) programme for the UK Ministry of 
Defence (MoD). This critical project will  
see the convergence of all communications 
networks and systems across the MoD. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 34
VT provides a wide 
range of logistic 
support services 
to the US Army’s 
Aviation and 
Missile Command. 
Our customer 
focus was 
demonstrated 
last year in the 
attainment of an 
‘exceptional’ rating 
in our annual 
performance 
evaluation. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 35
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
VT Services Inc
Highlights
Turnover grew by 26% and 
underlying operating profit 
by 64%. The additional 
nine-month contribution 
of VT Aepco contributed 
a significant portion of 
the growth and margin 
improvement.
  Secured follow-on task 
order to support the oil 
analysis laboratories for 
the US Army
  Nearly $180m (£126m) 
of extension and renewal 
contracts at various 
locations
  Achieved ‘Exceptional’ 
rating from US Army Aviation 
Missile Command in annual 
performance evaluation 
Financial highlights
Margin (%)
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Turnover (£m)
0 100 200 300 400
0 5 10 15 20
Underlying operating profit (£m)
3.6
4.7 2009
2008
241.4
303.2 2009
2008
8.6
14.1 2009
2008
VT Services Inc is the US arm of VT Group 
and provides support services for the US 
Government, in particular the Department  
of Defense. These services include facilities 
and logistics management, electronic 
engineering, and communication systems 
installation and support.
2009 performance
Further work with LOGSA: VT Services Inc 
has won the $40m (£28m) follow-on task 
order to support the oil analysis laboratories 
for the US Army Materiel Command Logistics 
Support Activity (LOGSA) in various US and 
overseas locations.
Contract extension and renewal: VT Services Inc 
has secured extensions to current contracts 
and additional task orders at existing locations 
totalling some $180m (£126m) over the past 
year. These include additional work at King’s 
Bay, Georgia; Camp Lejeune, North Carolina; 
and Huntsville, Alabama; plus contract 
extensions at Fort Stewart, Georgia, and 
Patrick Air Force Base, Florida.
Customer recognition: VT Services Inc won the 
US Army Directorate of Public Works (DPW) 
Support Contractor of the Year award for our 
work at the Fort Stewart / Hunter Army Airfield, 
Georgia installation. The award, covering all 
US Army installations, honours excellence in 
contractual accomplishment and support of 
the installation’s DPW mission. VT Services Inc 
provides a range of public works operations 
and maintenance services at the Fort 
Stewart / Hunter Army Airfield locations.
Going forward
The US defence budget is expected to 
increase by 4 per cent per annum. There will 
be increased focus on the intelligence services 
and the upgrade and maintenance of existing 
equipment. We are well placed to address 
these priorities.
In 2008, VT was recognised as the US Army-wide 
‘Directorate of Public Works (DPW) Support Contractor 
of the Year’ . This was for our work at Fort Stewart and 
Hunter Army Airfield, Georgia, where over $52m (£36m) is 
now spent annually on public works and special projects. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 36
Discontinued 
operations
Discontinued operations comprise the Group’s 
BVT Naval segment. BVT Naval includes the 
businesses constituting the VT Shipbuilding 
segment in the Group’s financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2008. This includes 
those businesses transferred to BVT Surface 
Fleet Ltd (BVT) on 1 July 2008, the Group’s 
interest in BVT and the business of VT Motion 
Control Group, which was primarily involved in 
the provision of stabilizers to the shipbuilding 
industry, and was disposed of during the year. 
2009 performance
BVT Surface Fleet (BVT) was formally 
established in July 2008. This was followed 
shortly afterwards by the signing of the 
manufacturing agreement for the Royal Navy’s 
two new CVF aircraft carriers, with BVT playing 
the major role. This role was subsequently 
expanded with further work allocated to BVT’s 
facilities in Glasgow and Portsmouth. 
BVT also handed over the first of the Royal 
Navy’s new Type 45 destroyers, HMS Daring, 
in December 2008, with the ship sailing into 
Portsmouth where all six ships in the class will 
be based. BVT will provide comprehensive 
support for the ships.
Negotiations with the UK Ministry of Defence 
on the Terms of Business Agreement (ToBA) 
continue to make good progress. This agreement 
will guarantee BVT leadership of defined future 
programmes with respect to design, build 
and through-life support.
In export work, BVT has extended its 
technology transfer agreement with 
Elefsis Shipyards, Greece with an order  
for two further fast attack craft for the  
Hellenic Navy, increasing the total number  
of ships in this class to seven. 
Operational performance in BVT Surface Fleet 
for the year has been disappointing, with under 
performance on export contracts. These export 
contracts are expected to give rise to losses 
estimated at £54m of which our share is £24m. 
On 19 March 2009 the Group disposed of 
its trade and certain assets and liabilities of 
VT Motion Control Group to Naiad Dynamics 
US Inc, Naiad Dynamics Holland BV and 
Naiad Dynamics UK Ltd. This business was 
primarily involved in the provision of stabilizers 
to the shipbuilding industry. 
Further details regarding discontinued 
operations can be found in note 5 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Highlights
  Joint venture established
  Acceptance of first Royal 
Navy Type 45 destroyer
  Major role in manufacture 
of new Royal Navy aircraft 
carriers
  Extension of transfer of 
technology agreement with 
Elefsis Shipyards, Greece
  Disappointing performance 
on export contracts 
Financial highlights
Net profit arising from
discontinued operations(£m)
0 20 40 60 80 100
0 200 100 300 400 500 600 700
Turnover (£m)
355.6
543.3 2009
2008
20.9
83.5 2009
2008 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 37
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
How we run 
the Group
Business success means creating long-term 
value, not just for our shareholders but for 
all our stakeholders and society. To achieve 
this, our Board ensures that, as a Group, we 
uphold the highest standards of corporate 
governance, and adhere to our core values  
in everything we do.
How we run the Group
Board of Directors 38
Corporate responsibility 40
Key risks and uncertainties 48
Corporate governance 50 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 38
Board of Directors
Michael Jeffries  
Chairman, age 64. 
Chairman of Nomination Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Appointed as a non-executive director in May 2005, Michael became Chairman 
on 5 July 2005. Michael was previously Chief Executive Officer of WS Atkins plc 
from 1995 to 2001 and Chairman from 2001 to 2005. He is currently Chairman of 
NCP Services Limited and Wyless plc. 
Paul Lester 
Chief Executive, age 59.
Became Chief Executive of VT Group in July 2002 having been a non-executive 
Board member since 1998. Previously, Paul was a group managing director of 
Balfour Beatty plc. A graduate mechanical engineer, he has held a number of Board  
or senior management positions in engineering and support services companies in 
both the UK and US. He is currently a non-executive director of Chloride Group Plc  
and the President of the Society of Maritime Industries.
Chris Cundy  
Corporate Development Director, age 48.
Joined the Group from KPMG in 1993. A chartered accountant, he was appointed  
to the position of Finance Director in 1997 and subsequently became a Board  
member in 1999. Chris was appointed Commercial Director in January 2006 and  
to his current role of Corporate Development Director in April 2009. He has no 
directorships outside the Group. He is a trustee of Action for ME.
Philip Harrison 
Finance Director, age 48.
Joined the Board in November 2007 from Hewlett Packard where he was Vice 
President Finance, Europe, Middle East and Africa. A fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Management Accountants, he was previously with Compaq and 
Rank Xerox. He has no directorships outside the Group.
Peter McIntosh 
Executive Director, age 50.
Joined VT Group in 1992, becoming Managing Director of Fleet Support Limited in 1999. Peter 
was appointed Managing Director of VT Shipbuilding and joined the Board in September 2003. 
He resigned from the Board to take up a two-year secondment with the Ministry of Defence 
as Chief Executive of the Future Aircraft Carrier project, and returned to the Board in January 
2008. His current role includes responsibility for the Group’s interests in BVT Surface Fleet 
and for developing VT’s environmental services activities. He has no directorships outside the 
Group. Peter will leave the Board and the Group following the exit from BVT later this year. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 39
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Andrew Given 
Non-executive Director, age 61. 
Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Senior Independent Director.
Appointed to the Board in September 2002. Andrew retired as Deputy Chief Executive of 
Logica plc in December 2002 having previously been its Finance Director. Prior to that he held 
roles in the telecommunications industry. He is a non-executive director and chairman of the 
audit committee of Morgan Crucible plc. 
Ian Tyler 
Non-executive Director, age 48. 
Member of Audit Committee. Independent.
Appointed to the Board in May 2008. A chartered accountant, Ian has been Chief Executive of 
Balfour Beatty plc since 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 and, prior to that, 
Finance Director. He is currently president of Construction Industry Relief, Assistance and Support 
for the Homeless Ltd, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
David Barclay 
Non-executive Director, age 55. 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Nomination and Audit Committees. 
Independent.
Appointed to the Board in May 2003. With a background in the Civil Service and the City, 
David was a vice-chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein until March 2005. He is 
non-executive deputy chairman of John Lewis Partnership plc and a non-executive director 
of Wessex Water Services Limited.
Baroness Blackstone 
Non-executive Director, age 66. 
Member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Independent.
Appointed to the Board in January 2004. After an academic career culminating in her appointment 
as Master of Birkbeck College, London, Baroness Blackstone served in the Government 
successively as Minister of State for Education and Employment (1997-2001) and Minister of State 
for the Arts (2001-2003). She has now retired from active politics and has returned to the higher 
education sector as Vice Chancellor of the University of Greenwich. She chairs the RIBA Trust and  
the Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Trust.
Admiral the Lord Michael Boyce 
Non-executive Director, age 65. 
Member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Independent.
Appointed to the Board in July 2004. After a long and distinguished career in the Royal Navy, 
culminating in his appointment as First Sea Lord in 1998, Lord Boyce was subsequently appointed 
Chief of Defence Staff in 2001. He retired from the latter role in May 2003 and was appointed 
Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque Ports in July 2004. He is a non-executive director of 
WS Atkins plc; Chairman of the RNLI and the White Ensign Association; an Elder Brother of Trinity 
House; and a Trustee of the National Maritime Museum. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 40
Corporate 
responsibility
Our achievements last year
Responsible business
Review code of ethics and 
export control procedures
3
A project is underway to update the Group Code of 
Ethics and we will report further on this next year
Workplace
Improve data collection 
including our US operations 
3 3
HR metrics agreed and system improvements in 
place to deliver consistent reporting
Unified employee engagement 
across VT Group
3 3
Group-wide employee survey completed in 
December 2008 
Embed coaching across the 
organisation
3
Training completed and work underway to embed 
coaching further as part of our culture
Supply chain
Implement a vendor 
management system
3
We have assessed our requirements, and have selected 
a system. Planning for implementation of phase 1 next 
year is underway
Health and safety
An improving reportable 
accident rate
3 3
The annual reportable accident rate shows an 
improving trend. We continue to aim for a 10% 
improvement in the next 12 months
75% of VT’s leadership team to 
have safety training
3 3
169 senior managers, including 89% of our 
leadership team, attended one-day Institute of 
Occupational Safety and Health training last year
No clusters of work-related 
occupational disease
3 3
One individual case  
(2008: six individual cases)
Enhanced management of 
contractor operations
3
Enhanced supplier selection process and  
contractor auditing undertaken. Work continues  
with supply chain to drive a standard approach
Initiate the monitoring of 
occupational road risk
3 3
Work-related driving incidents are monitored monthly  
by all operational units
Environment
Formalise VT’s environmental 
strategy
3
Good progress has been made with environmental 
performance and the development of our strategy. 
We will continue to drive improvements next year
Community investment
Increase financial donations
3 3
£281,000 donated this year (£212,000 last year)
Widen membership of the 
Community Investment 
Committee
3
We have engendered greater involvement from our 
business units and will investigate further ways of 
improving this area
Investigate ways of increasing 
employee volunteering
3
Employee volunteering improved and further work 
is planned to develop Group-wide volunteering 
opportunities 
3 In progress   33 Complete
Paul Lester  
Chief Executive
We know that how 
we manage the 
environmental, 
social and ethical 
aspects of our 
business are 
serious issues for 
our stakeholders. 
As the general 
understanding of 
sustainability grows, 
so too does its 
importance with our 
public and private 
sector customers, 
investors, suppliers 
and our employees. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 41
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Chief Executive’s overview 
The diversity of our operations has always added complexity to the management of corporate 
responsibility and, as our business transitions into a new era, we will have additional challenges 
as the range of stakeholders and relevant issues change too. Understanding these risks and 
opportunities going forward is vital so we can make the informed responses necessary to stay 
competitive and ensure our business is fit for the future. This year we undertook to link formally 
corporate responsibility with our risk management process, mapping them and their relative 
importance across our operations (materiality mapping). We will continue to refine this analysis 
and use the information to challenge and stimulate our thinking internally and engage with key 
stakeholders to quantify their views and add depth to our understanding.
We are pleased with our achievements, most notably in the areas of energy efficiency and 
carbon emissions. In 2010 we will work to consolidate our sustainability strategy and to refine 
and embed its principles through our operational processes. Health and safety, operating with 
the highest ethical standards, and managing our environmental impacts remain key priorities.
We continue to be active members of Business in the Community and to support them in their 
objectives. We are active members of the Solent Leadership Team which brings together over 
eighteen public and private sector organisations from across the South East. This year the team 
championed partnerships with schools assisting management teams to improve their skills, to 
embed business practices and to enhance curricula. This has involved many employees from  
VT volunteering their time and skills.
This summary report is supported by comprehensive reporting of performance, related 
policies and case studies on our website, www.vtplc.com, which is updated throughout the  
year. We invite feedback from all our stakeholders.
How we manage corporate responsibility
Corporate responsibility performance is an integral part of our overall company reporting. 
We measure our performance with regards to responsible business practices, customers and 
suppliers, our people, health and safety, environment and our communities. We used the results 
of our materiality mapping, feedback from our stakeholders and the Global Reporting Initiative 
guidelines to summarise the issues that are of most substance to the Group. Except where 
indicated we included all UK, overseas and US operations as well as VT Nuclear Services 
(acquired in 2008) and our joint venture companies in our reporting.
Listening to stakeholders
We have a broad range of stakeholders who are showing increasing interest in how VT 
manages its corporate responsibility issues. For example many of our private and public sector 
customers seek evidence of responsible business practice, as do the bodies that grant us 
our licences to operate. Listening to our investors, central and local government and private 
sector customers as well as our suppliers, employees and local communities is a priority. 
This year we played an active part in consulting on the Carbon Reduction Commitment, and 
on emerging health, safety and environmental legislation, both directly with the regulators and 
via our trade body memberships. We talk directly with our investors and are in our third year 
of reporting through the Carbon Disclosure Project, scoring well in its 2008 CDP6 leadership 
index. We will formalise our stakeholder engagement processes and consider options for 
formally benchmarking our performance.
Governance
We seek to incorporate corporate responsibility into our key business processes. Performance is 
monitored regularly and this year we integrated corporate responsibility into our approach to risk 
management to ensure that issues are regularly analysed and reviewed at both operational and 
senior executive level. Each year confirmation of the operation of controls is sought from each 
operating company. 
We are active 
members of 
Business in the 
Community 
including the Solent 
Leadership Team.
We monitor our 
performance using 
the Global Reporting 
Initiative framework.
We were pleased 
to be recognised 
as a sector 
leader by Carbon 
Disclosure Project 
in 2008 and aim to 
disclose publicly 
our submission 
next year. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 42
The Board sets Group policy on corporate responsibility, and the Chief Executive is the Board 
member responsible for overseeing its implementation. The VT Group Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSE) Forum oversees HSE performance and advises the Board on strategy. 
Each division is required to have appropriate management systems in place which are subject  
to external audit.
Our business principles and values are supported by related policies including health and 
safety, environment, business ethics, anti-corruption, export control and whistleblowing. 
Our businesses utilise the ISO 9001 quality standard to certify that the services and products  
we deliver to our customers are of a consistent and high quality.
Our policies and frameworks are reviewed regularly and updated in the light of changing 
regulation, emerging good practice and business needs. They can be found on our intranet  
and company website, www.vtplc.com.
Responsible business practices
Business ethics
We place paramount importance on high standards of service delivery and relationships 
with employees, customers, the local community, shareholders, suppliers and the public. 
Honesty and integrity are fundamental to VT Group’s business principles and we have strict 
policies and procedures in place to ensure companies throughout the Group operate ethically.
Code of Ethics
Our Group Code of Ethics provides a framework for all employees to assist them in  
maintaining the Group’s high standards. It provides guidance on issues such as conflicts of 
interest; out-of-hours activities; conduct with other organisations, customers and the public; 
conduct of employees at work; conduct with colleagues; and fraud. Each business unit has its 
own code, tailored specifically to its operations, which reflects the Group Code of Ethics.
Anti-corruption policy
VT Group does not tolerate corruption in any form no matter where we operate. Our anti-corruption 
policy applies to all VT businesses, joint ventures and employees and states in simple terms 
that corruption will not be tolerated. Appointment of overseas agents is subject to a rigorous 
documented procedure overseen by a compliance committee. 
We are currently reviewing our policy in light of the recommendations contained in the Woolf 
Committee Report into business ethics, global companies and the defence industry, published 
in May 2008. We are a founder member of the UK Defence Industry Anti-Corruption Forum and 
have made a statement of adherence to the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of 
Europe’s Common Industry Standard for prohibiting corruption.
Political donations
Political donations are strictly prohibited and it is our policy to maintain a position of impartiality 
with respect to party politics. We do not make cash donations to any political party, politician or 
candidate for public office.
Export control and competition law compliance
We operate a comprehensive procedure that aims to ensure full understanding of and 
compliance with export licensing requirements by our operations. We are in the process of 
updating these procedures to ensure they remain relevant and up to date. This year also saw 
the introduction of a new competition law compliance policy to ensure compliance by our 
businesses with all applicable competition laws.
Whistleblowers’ line
VT employees are requested and encouraged to report breaches of any of the Group’s policies 
without fear of recrimination. We provide an independently-managed, free and confidential 
whistleblowers’ phone line. Two cases were recorded during 2009 (none in 2008) which were 
subject to internal investigation.
Corporate 
responsibility continued
Business ethics
Honesty and 
integrity are 
fundamental to VT 
Group’s business 
principles and we 
have strict policies 
and procedures 
in place to 
ensure the Group 
operates ethically.
Anti-corruption
Our anti-corruption 
policy applies to 
all VT businesses, 
joint ventures 
and employees 
and states in 
simple terms that 
corruption will not 
be tolerated.
Whistleblowers’ line
We provide an 
independently-
managed, free 
and confidential 
whistleblowers’ 
phone line. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 43
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Customers and suppliers 
Partnering is one of VT’s core values which delivers benefits in both performance and cost 
efficiencies. The gain-share element of our partnering agreements aims to share risks and 
rewards with our customers and suppliers wherever we can. We are proud of our performance 
and expertise in this area. In 2008, a joint VT/MoD team received a special MoD partnering 
award for the successful delivery of a radio communications enhancement programme and 
VT was also rated as one of the MoD’s leading ‘Partners of Choice’.
We know that the partnering approach enhances the viability and profitability of both our partners 
and ourselves. A supplier conference and partnering workshops held last year allowed us to 
gain structured feedback direct from our suppliers, share our strategy and align our objectives  
in order to deliver a ‘one-team approach’.
We have worked over the past year to ensure our supply chain is robust and as financially  
secure as possible during the economic downturn. In partnership with our suppliers we have 
identified areas where VT can assist with cash flow and liquidity improvement.
We continue to improve the control of our procurement expenditure, rationalising the supplier 
base to 10,500 (12,500 in 2008), reducing the suppliers that we use regularly by 36 per cent to  
a monthly average of 2,200 (3,400 in 2008) and decreasing spend ‘not through procurement’ 
by 51 per cent over the past three years. Next year we will continue to implement our vendor 
management system, which we started in 2008.
Building on the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) Corporate Award 
professional training begun in 2008, we continue to invest in our procurement capabilities, 
running two further courses at both CIPS Full and Associate Membership levels.
Sustainable procurement
We share the UK Government’s aims and objectives in the area of sustainable procurement 
as outlined in its national action plan, Procuring the Future. We are committed to its principles 
of aiming to meet our needs for goods and services in a way that not only achieves value for 
money, but also provides long-term benefits to society and the economy, and minimises damage 
to the environment. We are proud to be an early signatory of the Sustainable Procurement 
Charter with the Ministry of Defence, committing us to operate and manage our supply chain 
in accordance with these principles. Next year we will continue to embed VT’s sustainable 
procurement policy throughout our operations and supply chain.
Special award 
We received  
a special award  
‘for partnering  
with our customers 
and suppliers’ from 
the MoD.
Partner of Choice
Rated as one of 
the Ministry of 
Defence’s leading 
‘Partners of Choice’ .
Sustainable 
Procurement 
Charter
We are proud 
to be an early 
signatory to the 
MoD’s Sustainable 
Procurement 
Charter. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 44
Corporate 
responsibility continued
Our people
Passionate about people 
With a workforce of more than 12,000 and with over 2,000 new employees last year, people 
are at the heart of our organisation. 69 per cent of employees who responded to our employee 
survey said that they would recommend VT as a good place to work, giving us an excellent 
measure of progress towards our target of being the employer of choice in our sector. This year 
we will focus on supporting our employees through a period of intense change as we restructure 
our organisation to meet the new challenges ahead.
Development and training
We continue to provide our employees with opportunities for continuous learning and the 
development of lifelong skills. In the past year, we invested in 32,995 training days. For our 
graduates we invested in 292 training days, an average of 12.1 days per graduate.
Our 2008/09 summer schools enabled over 240 junior managers to focus on basic management 
skills through a series of workshops ranging from communication, delegation and interviewing 
skills to presentation and time management. We also remain committed to providing 
apprenticeships across the business.
We continue to develop and embed coaching skills throughout the Group. Since 2006, 59 senior 
managers have attended accredited programmes and 136 middle managers have attended 
‘Coaching for Performance’ training. In 2008/09 our coaches delivered over 900 hours of 
coaching both within VT and to external personnel.
Engaging and retaining our workforce
Our first employee engagement survey in December 2008 recorded an excellent response 
rate (65 per cent) for a first-time Group-wide survey. We were particularly pleased with the 
engagement score of 71 per cent which is significantly above the benchmark group of over 400 
companies. Over 76 per cent of our employees also responded that they were proud to work 
for VT and 73 per cent said that their managers kept them up to date with developments in the 
business. We will use the employee survey as an annual measure of our performance in this area.
All UK employees are free to associate with and join trade unions and our aim is to maintain 
positive and constructive relationships with the unions that represent our employees.
VT’s flexible benefits and total reward schemes have helped our employees make savings and 
share in the Group’s success since 2004.
Encouraging diversity
We recognise the need to operate as an inclusive organisation in an increasingly diverse world. 
Our recruitment policies aim to encourage equality and diversity and last year we enhanced our 
employee metrics to ensure that we can monitor the demographics of our businesses. In 2008 
22 per cent of senior management and 45 per cent of graduate positions were held by women 
and 11 per cent of staff worked part-time.
VT Group operates mainly in countries where human rights are protected by law. However, in 
locations where these rights are not so clear and where local legislation is weak or non-existent, 
we seek to provide similar benefits to those enjoyed by UK staff.
More than
12,000
employees and over 2,000  
new employees last year.
71%
score for employee 
engagement in our first  
Group-wide survey.
VT Communications
VT Education & Skills
VT Head Office
VT Services Inc
VT Support Services
Headcount by business unit
Male
Female
Headcount by gender VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 45
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Health and safety
Health and safety continues to be a priority for our businesses and we were pleased that in 
our 2008/09 survey 80 per cent of our employees worldwide indicated that they considered 
health and safety was taken seriously. We continue to aim for industry-leading performance and 
undertook a comprehensive benchmarking exercise both within our sector and other industries. 
Our 2009 reportable accident rate, 623/100,000, shows an improving trend and compares 
favourably with the benchmarks and industry performance data published by The HSE Labour 
Force. Next year, we will instigate a consistent approach to analysing the causes of accidents  
in order to focus future improvement programmes.
Each of our operations and projects is required to implement management systems aligned 
with occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 and to have the controls in place 
as demanded by their operational risks. Legal compliance remains our minimum standard and 
the setting and reporting of our key performance indicators and targets means we stay focused 
on delivering continued improvement. The review of performance is embedded into our Board 
reporting and business review process and is overseen by the HSE Forum. Internal and external 
specialist audit continues to play an important role and is an area we are continuing to develop. 
We are pleased that our achievements in safety management, including facilities run on behalf 
of our customers and the MoD, have been acknowledged by international safety schemes. 
VT Critical Services won British Safety Council awards at seven of its major sites. VT Nuclear 
Services was recognised by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), 
achieving a Gold Medal Award for its performance over the past five years and a President’s 
award in its Radiometric Division for having achieved Gold Awards over ten consecutive years.
There were no fatalities, enforcement notices or prosecutions last year. Workplace driving is 
recognised as a Group-wide risk, and last year we introduced the reporting of driving accidents 
as a key performance indicator and initiated the roll-out of an online driver assessment tool. 
We have consolidated our approach to managing work-related ill-health and are working with 
our HR teams and our occupational health providers to minimise sickness absences including 
instances of work place stress.
Focusing on health and safety competencies and capabilities across the Group, the VT Guide 
to HSE Competencies now forms a framework which we will use to develop our people in both 
technical and softer skills to ensure they are equipped to reinforce safe behaviours and practices 
in the workplace. Recognising the important part our managers play in leading and setting 
safety culture, last year 169 of our senior managers, including 89 per cent of our executive team, 
attended a one-day health and safety training course.
80%
of our employees worldwide 
indicated in the employee 
survey that they considered 
health and safety was 
taken seriously.
Occupational 
driving
In 2008 we 
introduced 
occupational 
driving as a KPI and 
began the roll-out 
of an on-line driver 
assessment tool.
89%
of our executive team  
undertook one-day health  
and safety training. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 46
Environment
As scientific evidence of and political emphasis on environmental issues and climate change 
increase, so too does the focus of our stakeholders. Investors, public and private sector 
customers and suppliers are all interested in what we are doing to protect the environment  
and move to a low-carbon future. The results of our Group-wide survey this year confirmed  
that it also rated high in importance for our employees.
We remain focused on the emerging requirements of the UK Government’s Climate Change Bill, 
such as the forthcoming Carbon Reduction Commitment, and helping our business partners 
ensure compliance and reduce their environmental impacts. We are working with our customers 
on environmental projects to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions, and 
were an early signatory to the Ministry of Defence’s Sustainable Procurement Charter.
This year the scope and completeness of our disclosures have continued to improve with the 
inclusion of US reporting, taking our environmental disclosures to 87 per cent of global (76 per cent 
last year) and 98 per cent of UK operations. We continue to report publicly on our performance and 
participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We were pleased to be recognised as a sector 
leader by CDP in 2008 and aim to disclose publicly our submission in 2009.
VT’s UK direct and indirect carbon emissions data is certified under the Carbon Trust Standard 
and covers all UK operations, both wholly owned, joint ventures and partnerships based on our 
equity share.
We continue to implement ISO 14001 at our sites and those we run on behalf of our customers, 
and to use internal and external specialist auditors to assess our processes and performance.
Reducing our operational footprint
We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions and are active members of The Prince of 
Wales May Day Network, the UK’s largest group of businesses committed to taking action on 
climate change and sharing best practice. Broadcasting, our most energy-intensive operation 
is actively developing a renewable energy strategy alongside its intensive capital investment 
programme to improve the efficiencies of transmitters. It was successful in realising 16,864 MWh 
electrical savings last year. There have been numerous local campaigns to focus on energy 
efficiencies including ‘No Travel Weeks’ and office efficiency programmes. We were pleased 
that VT Training was named Grey Fleet Champion in the Energy Saving Trust’s annual Fleet Hero 
Awards for its achievements in reducing emissions from car travel.
Our emissions reduction programme is progressing well. Last year, accounting for the inclusion 
of VT Nuclear Services and VT Services Inc data, we realised a 4 per cent absolute reduction in 
tonnes of CO
2
 and a 35 per cent normalised reduction in tonnes of CO
2
 per NSV £m. We continue 
to drive performance improvement and have set a target to deliver a 15 per cent reduction in 
emissions next year (CO
2
 per NSV £m).
Energy use
2008 
ktonnes 
eq. CO
2
2008 
 
GWH
2007 
 
GWH
2008 
MWh per 
£m NSV
2007 
MWh per 
£m NSV
Electricity 69.7 129.8 146.7 98.0 164.0
Gas 4.6 22.4 16.5 16.9 18.5
Fuel/Oil 20.5 80.4 76.0 60.6 85.2
Total Energy Consumption 94.8 232.6 239.2 175.5 267.7
T otal absolute tonnes equivalent CO
2
2008 2007
Kilotonnes equivalent CO
2
 95.0 98.0
Tonnes equivalent CO
2 
per £m NSV 72.0 110.0
Note: The above data is reported by calendar year.
87%
of global, including 98% of 
UK, business by turnover 
(including JVs) included in  
our environmental reporting.
‘09
Member of  
The Prince of Wales 
May Day Network.
4%
improvement in absolute  
CO
2
 emissions.
15%
target by which to reduce 
emissions next year
1
. 
1
 CO
2
 per £m of turnover (NSV)
2006
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2007 2008
(reported by calendar year)
CO
2 
emissions 2008
CO
2
 e-kilotonnes per NSV £m
Corporate 
responsibility continued VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 47
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Waste and water
We continue to manage actively our waste and water and invest in efficiency measures such 
as the water recycling capabilities at our fire-fighting facilities. Last year, all our operations 
increased the amount of waste they recycle, a result of both improved reporting and increased 
recycling activities.
 
Waste
 tonnes
 2008 2007
 tonnes per £m NSV
 2008 2007
Hazardous 74 49 0.11 0.09
General 305 271 0.44 0.50
Recycling 297 163 0.43 0.30
 
Water
 
 2008 2007
 m
3
 per £m NSV
 2008 2007
Total usage, thousand m
3
 135 111 0.19 0.20
Licensed abstraction m
3
 1,000 1,050
Operational and site usage 85% 94%
Office use 15% 6%
Note: The above data is reported by calendar year and is exclusive of VT Services Inc and BVT.
Other aspects
We are pleased to report that 100 per cent of our UK timber is sourced from suppliers approved 
by the Forest Stewardship Council.
There were no reportable environmental incidents in 2008.
Communities
Our community programmes are overseen by the VT Community Investment Committee 
and employees at all levels within the organisation participate. We donated £281,000 
(2008: £212,000) to a variety of causes. Our focus, however, is not purely monetary giving,  
and we also provided support through employee volunteering, fundraising, mentoring and 
pro-bono work as well as give-as-you-earn and matched giving. We continue to drive further 
improvements to capture data and report in this area.
We have enjoyed working with our three partnering charities – tackling long-term unemployment 
with Local Employment Access Projects (LEAP); assisting and supporting members of the 
armed forces, past and present, and their families with SSAFA Forces Help; and improving the 
lives of people with ME with Action for ME. We have supported them both financially and with 
the appointment of trustees to their Boards, employee volunteering, personal mentoring and 
pro-bono work.
Our operating companies and projects have also undertaken many varied and exciting 
community projects. Details of these and other case studies are available on our website.
Find out more and feedback
Understanding the views and requirements of our stakeholders is fundamental to our corporate 
responsibility programme. We actively encourage our stakeholders to engage in dialogue 
with us and are always interested in feedback. Further information can be found on our website 
www.vtplc.com or you can contact Barbara Harrison, Head of Corporate Responsibility, 
on +44 (0) 1489 775 267 or at barbara.harrison@vtplc.com.
Last year, all 
our operations 
increased the 
amount of waste 
they recycle.
100%
of our UK timber is sourced 
from suppliers approved by the 
Forest Stewardship Council.
There were 
no reportable 
environmental 
incidents in 2008.
£281k
donated to a variety of causes 
(2008: £212k).
A broader focus
VT provides support 
through employee 
volunteering, 
fundraising, 
mentoring and  
pro-bono work  
as well as give- 
as-you-earn and  
matched giving. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 48
Key risks and uncertainties
The Board is committed to ensuring that high quality risk management systems are in place across the Group. The objective of these 
systems is to support the delivery of long-term sustainable returns for shareholders and to safeguard the interests of customers and 
employees through the effective management of risk.
Group risk management process
The Group’s management operates a risk assessment process to identify and assess the risks affecting business performance. 
The process requires each business division to identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood and impact, and the actions being 
taken to manage those risks. Divisional risk registers are reviewed by their respective management teams and at Group level through 
monthly business reviews. The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated risk profile at least twice a year. 
The internal audit team independently reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk assessment and internal control policies 
and reports its findings at least quarterly to the Audit Committee. The Committee reviews and challenges the assurance procedures, 
ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurances required by the Board.
Contract performance management
A significant proportion of our business derives from long-term, fixed-price contracts with customers. The challenge to our business 
is the management of these long-term contracts to our customers satisfaction whilst maintaining expected returns. Should we 
fail to anticipate operational problems, to meet customer expectations or should the costs of performing the contract exceed the 
projected cost on which the original pricing was based, there is a risk of achieving lower than expected returns or losses.
In addition, as a government contractor, the Group is subject to financial audits and other reviews. As a result, costs and prices 
under these contracts may be subject to adjustment. 
To address these risks, we hold regular project appraisals, maintain continued dialogue with customers and are progressively 
applying our project lifecycle framework to contracts across the Group. All major contracts in all business divisions have a risk 
identification and management process in place and significant risks are considered for inclusion in divisional risk registers.
Growth strategy and major bid pricing
The Group’s expansion encompasses organic growth, acquisitions and potentially entry into new markets. Both acquisitions and 
entry into new markets bring with them an extra element of risk as they may involve activities not currently carried out by the Group. 
This could impact the Group’s reputation, financial condition or operating results. In addition, problems encountered in integrating 
the operations and personnel of acquired businesses could adversely impact the Group’s operations. To address these risks we 
undertake extensive due diligence, carefully consider the Group’s ability to manage and fund any new activities arising, and insist 
that all such activities require Board approval.
Given the long-term nature of many of the Group’s contracts, there is a risk that the terms negotiated at the start of a contract could 
prove unfavourable, leading to returns that are lower than expected. The Group manages this risk via a rigorous bid acceptance 
process, with major bids requiring Board approval.
Dependence on government contracts
A significant proportion of our business derives from governments and the Group is, therefore, susceptible to changes in government 
policy, budget allocations and the political environment, both in the UK and overseas. The Group has sought to address this risk in 
recent years by diversifying its service offering from a largely UK-based defence-oriented business to the provision of a broader range 
of services internationally. 
The recent US presidential election may lead to a change in spending priorities, with a risk that defence allocations are reduced in 
favour of other needs. However, given the nature of the Group’s business, we do not anticipate any material effect from such a change.
Financial risk and capital management
The current economic climate and resulting turmoil in the financial markets has led to tighter lending criteria being implemented 
by financial institutions that may restrict business operations or increase the cost of borrowing. As outlined in the Financial review, 
VT Group has committed facilities available of £80m until March 2011 and £225m until November 2011 under which £175.1m of 
headroom remains undrawn. Tightening in the financial markets may also lead to delays in achieving financial close for Private Finance 
Initiative (PFI) contracts. For example, VT Group is currently in the latter stages of negotiation on the Wakefield waste processing 
facility and current indications are that the relevant financing will be concluded in the first half of our next financial year. 
The Group’s policies for the management of capital and financial risk, including liquidity, credit and market risk, are detailed in the 
Financial review and note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 49
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Changes in laws and regulations
The Group is subject to various laws and regulations in different jurisdictions, including state aid, procurement, export control, 
taxation and environmental, health and safety laws. These laws and regulations are complex, subject to change, and can vary from 
country to country. The Group addresses this risk through formal compliance policies and by employing suitably qualified individuals 
and retaining appropriate professional advisors.
Environmental and health and safety liabilities
The Group’s operating businesses are exposed to risks associated with the contamination of their sites and former sites, 
non-compliance with environmental, health and safety law and personal injury claims resulting from injuries sustained at work, 
including historical exposure to asbestos. The Group is fully committed to maintaining a framework of Group-wide policies 
and procedures to minimise these risks. 
Dependence on key people
The recruitment, retention and development of highly skilled competent people is key to the success of the Group. The failure to 
attract and retain key personnel could materially affect our ability to achieve the Group’s planned strategic growth. We manage this 
risk by actively engaging with our people through communication forums and have introduced an employee opinion survey to obtain 
a better understanding of the range of issues that contribute to staff satisfaction.
Joint ventures
The Group has a number of joint ventures. Given their importance to the Group, the boards of these joint ventures include 
executive directors and members of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) who are responsible for representing the Group’s 
interests. These individuals maintain regular dialogue with key stakeholders and are involved in operations as appropriate. 
Pensions
The Group participates in certain defined benefit pension schemes. As at 31 March 2009, these schemes had deficits, net of 
related deferred tax assets, of £43.6m. The Group is making contributions to make good these deficits over a period of years. 
The performance of the Group’s pension scheme and deficit recovery plans are regularly reviewed by both the Board and the 
Trustees of the pension scheme. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 50
Corporate governance
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council (the Code). This report sets out the Company’s compliance with the Code. 
The Code requires listed companies to report how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving sufficient 
detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report and to state whether there has been compliance with the provisions of the Code, 
providing an explanation for any points of non-compliance. 
Throughout the period of this report, the Board has been in compliance with the Code.
The Board
The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman (Michael Jeffries), Chief Executive (Paul Lester), three further executive directors 
and five non-executive Directors. Andrew Given is the Senior Independent Director. Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their 
experience and main commitments are set on out pages 38 to 39. David Thorpe resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008 and Ian Tyler 
was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on the same day. 
The Code requires the Company to have an effective Board whose role is to provide leadership and vision for the Group within a 
framework of controls which allow risk to be assessed and managed. The Board sets strategic aims and the Company’s values 
and ensures that obligations to shareholders are met. The role of non-executive Directors includes the development of strategy, the 
scrutiny of management and ensuring the integrity of financial information and risk management systems. The Board believes it has 
met these requirements.
The Board holds full meetings at least seven times a year, spread across the full calendar year. In addition, there is a separate 
meeting each year to discuss the strategic plan. The Directors believe that these meetings enable the Board to exercise control over 
the Group and remain fully conversant with its activities. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which only 
the Board itself can change. These matters include the acquisition and disposal of businesses, major projects, risk management 
strategies and processes, significant contractual commitments, health and safety and succession planning. 
The Chairman meets with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present at least once a year.
Directors and officers of the Group have the benefit of a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy. The Company has agreed to 
indemnify each Director through a deed of indemnity in respect of certain liabilities to third parties which may be incurred as a result 
of discharging his or her duties as a Director. A copy is available for inspection.
The number of scheduled Board and committee meetings attended by each Director was as follows:
Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
M M E Jeffries 7(7) n/a 3(3) 1(1)
D M Barclay 7(7) 5(5) 3(3) 1(1)
Baroness Blackstone 6(7) n/a 3(3) 1(1)
Lord Boyce 7(7) n/a 3(3) 1(1)
C J Cundy 7(7) n/a n/a n/a
P J Harrison 7(7) n/a n/a n/a
A F Given 7(7) 5(5) 3(3) 1(1)
P J Lester 7(7) n/a n/a n/a
P J McIntosh 7(7) n/a n/a n/a
D A Thorpe (resigned 12 May 2008) 0(1) 0(1) 0(1) 0(1)
I M Tyler (appointed 12 May 2008) 7(7) 5(5) n/a n/a VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 51
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The Code requires that there should be a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and executive 
responsibility for the running of the business so that no one person has unrestricted power.
The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive. This division of 
responsibilities is set down in writing and agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring 
its effectiveness and setting its agenda. Once the strategic and financial objectives have been agreed by the Board as a whole, it is  
the Chief Executive’s responsibility to ensure their delivery. He chairs the Group Executive Committee and leads and motivates the  
senior management team. The Chief Executive is obliged to comply with a practical schedule of matters requiring Board approval 
before implementation; this schedule is reviewed regularly. 
The current commitments of Michael Jeffries outside VT Group are as chairman of NCP Services Limited and Wyless plc.
Board balance and independence
The Company complies with the requirements of the Code that there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors so 
that no individual or small group can dominate decision making. The Board has met the Code requirement that at least 50 per cent of 
the Board should be independent throughout the year.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of Board committees, both the need to refresh membership and the skills of the 
individuals are taken into account.
All non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent. In reaching this determination the Board has had regard 
to the relevant criteria under the Code including length of service, in particular with regard to Andrew Given and David Barclay who 
have served on the Board since September 2002 and May 2003 respectively.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Company’s share, bonus or pension schemes. At the time of his 
appointment as Chairman, and in compliance with the Code, Michael Jeffries was considered to be independent.
In accordance with the new regime for dealing with directors’ conflicts of interest under the Companies Act 2006, processes are in 
place to ensure that, in the event of a potential conflict of interest, this is reported to and, if appropriate, authorised in advance by the 
Board. The Director involved takes no part in the relevant discussion.
Appointments to the Board
There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors. Appointments are made on merit and against 
objective criteria. Odgers, Ray & Berndtson were retained as consultants for the appointment of Ian Tyler. The Company has a talent 
management and succession planning process.
Information and professional development
A main principle of the Code is that information of sufficient quality is supplied to the Board in a timely manner. The Company 
Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures that the Board is supplied with detailed information several days prior to the 
Board meeting. The agenda for each Board meeting includes substantial reports on all aspects of the Group’s business and ad-hoc 
reports are circulated if decisions are required between formally arranged meetings. Non-executive Directors have ready access to 
executive Directors. Board meetings are held at different company locations during the year as well as at the head office, enabling 
Directors to make site visits. Executive Directors carry out regular business reviews at different locations throughout the year.
All newly-appointed Directors are provided with a structured induction programme which includes meetings both internally and 
externally with those principally involved with the business. Ongoing training is provided for all Directors to ensure that they are  
aware of their responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board processes and procedures are followed. 
Performance evaluation
The Code requires the Board to undertake annually a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and the Directors.
This year, the Board considered the merit of using an external body or facilitator to manage the performance evaluation process. 
The Board concluded that it remained appropriate to evaluate its own performance this year, but will keep under review whether  
to use external resources in future years.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 52
Corporate governance
continued
This year’s evaluation was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires which were completed by each Director. Comments were 
invited on a wide range of issues including:
 The Board’s role and culture  Risk management  Board and committee processes
 Strategy  Knowledge and skills  Compliance
 Performance  Board structure  Matters raised in last year’s review
 Dialogue with investors  Succession planning 
The Chairman has discussed the results and sought further feedback during one-to-one meetings with each member of the Board. 
In addition, the performance of the Chairman has been subject to appraisal by the Board, led by the Senior Independent Director. 
Overall, the Board has concluded that it is operating effectively. However, a number of areas for further improvement were identified 
as a result of the evaluation exercise and an action plan is being developed. Next year’s review will monitor progress in these areas.
Re-election
Under the Code, Directors should offer themselves for re-election at regular intervals and all the Directors should submit themselves 
for re-election at least every three years. Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment and subsequently at least every three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years and may be reappointed for a further term of three years by 
agreement of the Board. Where no clear replacement has been identified, a Director may remain for a third three-year term. 
On appointment, each non-executive Director receives a letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment. The terms and 
conditions are available for inspection. Non-executive Directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business  
of the Group.
Remuneration
Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out opposite and the Remuneration report is on pages 58 to 65.
Board committees
The Board has the following standing committees, each of which has its own terms of reference which are available on request and on 
the company’s website.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each committee.
Audit Committee
Members during the year were: Andrew Given (chairman), David Barclay and Ian Tyler. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance 
Director and a representative of the external auditor attend by invitation. The Committee meets at least twice a year. At least once a 
year the external auditor is able to meet the committee without the executive Directors being present. The Audit Committee assists 
the Board in discharging its responsibilities regarding the Group financial statements, the adequacy of internal controls and the 
work of the external auditor. The terms of reference of the committee were reviewed during the year. During the year the Committee 
considered, among other items:
 The effectiveness of the Group’s risk management processes
 The effectiveness of the internal audit function
  Significant financial reporting issues and judgements
  The annual audit strategy with the external auditor
  The scope of internal audit work
  Matters raised by the internal and external auditors
The Board has determined that the Committee members have sufficient skills and experience to contribute meaningfully to the 
Committee’s discussions. The chairman of the Committee has the required experience in accounting and financial management. 
The Committee takes account of the guidance in the Code on audit committees.
The Committee has set parameters so that the independence of the external auditor is not prejudiced when undertaking non-audit 
work. Such work is either prohibited or requires prior approval from the Finance Director or Committee, as appropriate. Non-audit 
work may include tax advice, due diligence and other transaction-related services. The Company has appointed a different firm 
of accountants from its auditor as its principal tax advisor. The cost effectiveness and impact on any corporate relationship with 
the auditor are considered when awarding non-audit work. In turn, the external auditor has in place processes to ensure that its 
independence is maintained. 
Fees paid to the auditor in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 totalled £1.7m of which £0.95m related to the statutory audit of 
the Group for the year. See note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 53
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Remuneration Committee
Members during the year were: David Barclay (chairman), Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Andrew Given and Michael Jeffries.
The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend the Committee 
by invitation when appropriate. No executive is present when the committee considers matters relating to himself or herself. 
Michael Jeffries is absent when his remuneration is under consideration. The Committee meets periodically when required but  
not less than twice a year. 
The Committee’s responsibilities are described in the Remuneration report on page 58.
The Committee has access to information and advice from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems 
necessary. It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive remuneration.
During the year the Committee considered, among other matters:
 Senior and executive staff remuneration and incentivisation
 Employee share plan participation 
Nomination Committee
Members during the year were: Michael Jeffries (chairman), Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, David Barclay and Andrew Given. 
All Directors’ appointments are considered before formal approval by the Board and the Committee aims to maintain a proper balance 
between executive and non-executive Directors in accordance with the Code.
The Committee leads the process for identifying, and recommending, candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full 
consideration to succession planning and the needs of the Group, including qualifications and expertise to guide the strategy of the 
Group. Before concluding arrangements with preferred candidates for appointment to the Board, the Committee satisfies itself that 
their other commitments are not such that they would adversely affect the candidates ability to devote adequate time to the position. 
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board. It also makes recommendations to the Board on the 
composition of the Board Committees. The Committee meets when required. The Chief Executive is invited to attend. 
The Committee has access to such information and advice as it may require both from within the Group and externally, at the cost 
of the Company. This may include the appointment of external search consultants.
Group Executive Committee
The Group Executive Committee (GEC) is the Chief Executive’s committee and is responsible for managing the business. 
It comprises the executive Directors together with the Managing Directors of the business units, the Group HR Director and the 
Company Secretary. It meets fortnightly throughout the year. Executives who are not committee members are invited to make 
presentations to the Committee during the year. The GEC focuses on the implementation of strategy, decision making, monitoring  
of operational performance and leading and facilitating change in the Group. 
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Board is required to present a balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Group’s position and prospects and is  
satisfied it has met this obligation. A summary of the Directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 66.
Organisation
The Group has a defined structure in which operational management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation. 
The Group has a Code of Business Ethics setting out principles to be followed by all employees in the course of business. 
A confidential telephone line is available for staff to report concerns with regard to conduct.
Ethical trading
Further information on the Group’s ethical trading policies is given in the Corporate responsibility report on page 42. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 54
Internal controls 
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the revised Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that it has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. The Group has established a system of internal control policies 
and a process for identifying, assessing and reporting the key risks faced by the Group. These have been embedded across our 
business and have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of internal controls within the Group. Responsibility for the implementation of 
such Board policies and procedures lies with the management team of each operating business. The system of internal controls is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control 
procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
In order to support the Board in monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control the Group appoints a head of 
internal audit. The head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee. In addition the Group continues to 
engage external advisors to support the internal audit programme of work.
The Group has developed a process of internal control self assessment which has been applied consistently across the Group. 
This includes a bi-annual certification from each business division of compliance with key financial and fundamental operating controls 
in addition to risk management processes. The results of this exercise are utilised in planning the programme of internal audits for the 
forthcoming year. Internal audit reports to the Audit Committee on its key findings and recommendations for control improvements at 
least quarterly. Conclusions from the internal audit process feed back into the risk management process. 
These procedures allow for the escalation of key issues through the management team, and finally to the Board if appropriate.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within associates and joint ventures rests with the senior management of these 
operations. We monitor our investments and exert our influence through Board representation.
The Board’s key internal control and monitoring procedures include the following: 
  Annual budgets which are prepared and approved by the Board for each operating business. Monthly management reporting 
focuses on actual performance against these budgets and, when appropriate, revised forecasts
  The review of internal and external audit reports on the system of internal controls across the Group
  Embedded policies and procedures across the Group including capital expenditure, delegation of authority, treasury management 
and a framework of financial controls
  The development of Group-wide policies to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk including fraud
  Agreement of the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external and internal auditors
  Reviewing the adequacy of the level of experienced and professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of individual 
staff members so that they are capable of carrying out their respective responsibilities
  The review of major tenders and contract performance compared to the estimates prepared at the time of the original tender
The Group’s risk management process is described on pages 48 to 49.
Going concern 
The Directors are required to make appropriate enquires to ensure that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. In making these enquiries the Board has considered:
  The availability of the Group’s existing banking facilities (of the £305m of available facilities, £80m is available until March 2011 
and the remaining £225m is available until November 2011) 
  Forecast cash flows for the two years ended 31 March 2011 and consequent available headroom against the Group’s existing facilities
  A review of the Group’s compliance with covenants under its facilities during this period and in the longer term
  A sensitivity analysis of key inputs into the cash flow forecasts (including crystallisation of contingent liabilities) and covenant calculation
After making these enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Corporate governance
continued VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 55
Overview of the year Explaining the Group Statutory information How we run the Group 
Statutory 
information
Our aim is to provide investors and other 
stakeholders with clear and comprehensive 
information. In this section you will find 
our full financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2009, along with other 
statutory information.
Statutory information
Directors’ report 56
Remuneration report 58
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditor’s report 67
Financial statements 68
Five-year summary 135
Principal subsidiary 
and joint venture undertakings 136
Principal locations 137
Shareholder information 138 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 56
Directors’ report  
for the year ended 31 March 2009
The Directors present their annual report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Principal activities
VT Group operates in a wide range of markets including defence, education, secure communications, waste and nuclear services.  
Our principal activities are:
 Facilities management and base operations  Education and training 
 Equipment support   Design, procure and build
Developments affecting the Group during the year and its prospects for the future, including information regarding essential 
contractual relationships, are set out in the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s report, Financial review, Explaining the Group  
on pages 14 to 36 and Key risks and uncertainties on pages 48 to 49.
Results and dividends
The Group profit for the year available to ordinary shareholders after tax amounted to £107.8m (2008: £56.8m).
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.5p (2008: 9.55p) per ordinary share, amounting to £18.0m 
(2008: £17.0m) which together with the interim dividend of 3.9p (2008: 3.55p) makes a total of 14.4p or £25.8m (2008: 13.1p or 
£23.3m) for the year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 13 August 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business  
on 10 July 2009.
Research and development
The Group continued to maintain its levels of investment in research and development relating to broadcasting and waste recycling.
Directors
The names of the current Directors together with brief biographical details are shown on pages 38 to 39. Ian Tyler was appointed 
to the Board on 12 May 2008. Each of Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, David Barclay, Andrew Given and Ian Tyler has a service 
contract for a three-year period which may be terminated by either party on one-months notice. Paul Lester, David Barclay and 
Andrew Given retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in July 2009. 
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 58 to 65.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 1 July 2008 the Group combined its shipbuilding and naval support businesses with those of BAE Systems plc to create a 
joint venture known as BVT Surface Fleet Limited, in which the Group is a 45 per cent shareholder. As detailed in note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements, the Group intends to exercise its put option over BVT Surface Fleet during summer 2009 and 
thereby dispose of its interest in the joint venture.
On 1 July 2008 the Group acquired BAE Systems plc’s 50 per cent shareholding in Flagship Training Limited giving the Group  
100 per cent ownership.
Fixed assets
In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of the Group’s properties at 31 March 2009 is not significantly different from the book 
value shown in the financial statements.
Substantial interests in shares
As at 12 May 2009, the Company has been notified of the following voting interests in its ordinary share capital, disclosable under the 
Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
Number of shares % of total
Newton Investment Management Ltd 12,656,981 7.08
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 12,115,675 6.78
Fidelity International (UK) Ltd 8,145,034 4.56
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd 7,161,468 4.00
Co-operative Insurance Society 6,967,482 3.90
Legal & General Investment Management 6,751,113 3.78 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 57
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to 1,750,000 of its own ordinary shares in the market. This authority 
expires at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 30 July 2009 and the Company intends to request the same authority from 
shareholders at that AGM. During the year the Company purchased 640,000 of its own ordinary shares with a nominal value of  
5p each, in order to fulfil the needs of its employee share schemes, for a total consideration of £3.9m. In addition, 202,394 shares 
were issued by the Company to the employee trust to satisfy future pending awards under these schemes.
At 31 March 2009, the Company held 913,722 (2008: 443,326) of its own shares representing 0.5 per cent of the Company’s total 
called-up share capital. In accordance with the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 
companies are permitted to hold purchased shares rather than cancelling them. The Board has no current intention to purchase 
shares as treasury shares other than as required for employee share schemes.
Equal opportunities
All employment policies include a commitment to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, 
age or disability, subject only to considerations of national security. The Group’s policy is to provide, wherever possible, employment 
opportunities for disabled people and to ensure that disabled people joining the Group, and employees who become disabled whilst 
in our employment, benefit from training and career development opportunities.
Corporate responsibility
The Corporate responsibility report is on pages 40 to 47. Further information can be found on the Group’s website, www.vtplc.com.
Corporate governance
The Corporate governance report is set out on pages 50 to 54.
Change of control
The Group has a number of borrowing facilities which contain provisions that, following a change of control, give the lender the right 
to cancel the facility and require immediate repayment of outstanding amounts.
Certain of the Group’s trading contracts contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other 
similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In addition, the Company’s share plans contain provisions, as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable 
on change of control of the Company.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to make payment to suppliers either as agreed in any contract with those suppliers or, where no agreement has 
been made, to make payment within 45 days of receipt of invoice. We continue to monitor supplier payment terms at both Group and 
divisional level. Where we find discrepancies we do our best to ensure they are rectified promptly. The creditor days at 31 March 2009 
were 32 (2008: 33 days).
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday 30 July 2009. Details of the resolutions to be proposed, together with appropriate 
explanations, are set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report. Special business includes the 
authority to allot shares and the disapplication of pre-emption rights under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985. The Company also 
proposes to amend its articles of association in line with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Company will be adopting the 
ICSA’s guidance on treatment of votes cast through pooled accounts. All proxy votes cast will be counted and the results shown on 
the Company’s website after the AGM.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the Company 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors’ confirmation
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a 
Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
M P Jowett 
Secretary 
12 May 2009 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 58
Remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 March 2009
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002). It also describes the Group’s compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance in relation to 
remuneration for the current and forthcoming financial years. The report has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders 
at the forthcoming AGM. The Company’s auditors have audited the report to the extent required by the relevant legislation. The chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee will attend the AGM and will be available to answer shareholders’ questions regarding the contents of 
this report.
Remuneration Committee
In accordance with the Combined Code, the remuneration of the executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee) on behalf of the Board. The Committee also reviews and monitors remuneration for other senior executives below 
the Board and oversees the operation of the Company’s share schemes. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website, www.vtplc.com.
Details of the composition of the Committee during the year are contained in the Corporate governance report on page 53.
By invitation, Remuneration Committee meetings are also attended by the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director. No person is 
present during any discussion directly relating to his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has appointed Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS) as independent advisers. HNBS does not provide 
any other services to the Company. A description of the relationship between the Company and HNBS is available on the Company’s 
website. The Committee also received advice during the year from Hymans Robertson (for UK pensions) and Advaita Consulting (for 
US pensions).
Remuneration policy
The Company’s policy continues to be to provide for each of its executive Directors a remuneration package which is adequate to 
attract, retain and motivate individuals of the appropriate calibre, whilst at the same time not paying more than is necessary for this 
purpose. The Company’s policy is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains appropriate for the Company’s current circumstances 
and prospects and takes due account of developments in market and best practice. The remuneration package for executive 
Directors and other senior executives is structured to ensure that a significant proportion of total remuneration is payable subject to  
the achievement of challenging targets, designed to improve shareholder value.
When setting remuneration for executive Directors, the Committee also has regard to the pay policy throughout the Group.
The following comprise the principal elements of executive Directors’ remuneration:
  Base salary
  Benefits, (including pension, company car and fuel, healthcare and private telephone costs)
  Participation in the annual performance-related bonus plan
  Participation in the Company’s long-term incentive plans, as described below, under which awards vest subject to the satisfaction 
of performance conditions set by the Committee with the primary aim of encouraging the generation of returns to shareholders
The Committee ensures that the incentive structure for executive Directors does not raise environmental, social, governance or other 
operational risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, 
there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account matters relating to risk in these areas.
Base salary
Base salaries for executive Directors are reviewed annually, usually in April. When conducting the most recent review of base salaries, 
the Committee considered (as it has done in previous years) salary levels for executive directors in groups of a similar size and within 
similar industries to the Group, as well as the Director’s personal experience and performance, general economic conditions and pay 
policy throughout the Group.
The Committee determined that, in light of the current Group restructuring programme, the salaries of the top seventy executives 
would be frozen.
The salaries of the executive Directors employed at the time of publication (effective for the year beginning on 1 April 2009) are:
  P J Lester £500,000 (no increase since 1 April 2008)
  C J Cundy £250,000 (no increase since 1 April 2008)
  P J Harrison £300,000 (no increase since 1 April 2008)
  P J McIntosh £237,000 (no increase since 1 April 2008) VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 59
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Annual bonus
Executive Directors, in common with other executives in the Company, are eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan. The level 
of bonus paid is determined annually by the Committee and depends on the achievement of a combination of challenging profit, cash 
flow, strategic and personal targets set by the Committee.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, executive Directors had the opportunity to earn up to 100 per cent of salary in annual bonus. 
A bonus of up to 70 per cent of salary was determined by the achievement of financial targets (based on profit and cash conversion)  
of which up to 75 per cent was eligible for deferral under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS) (see below). The payment of any 
bonus in excess of 70 per cent was based on exceptional divisional or corporate financial performance (in excess of stretch targets 
and again based on profit and cash conversion) and/or on individual performance against specified personal objectives, and payable 
only in cash, i.e. it was not eligible to be deferred under the DABS.
The bonuses paid, which are set out in the table on page 62, reflect part achievement of the challenging financial targets relating to 
the bonus opportunity on the first 70 per cent of salary. No portion of the remaining 30 per cent bonus opportunity for exceptional 
performance was paid to the executive Directors, save for 10 per cent of salary paid to P J Lester reflecting part satisfaction of his 
individual performance objectives.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, the annual bonus will be structured in broadly the same manner, save that in light of the Group 
restructuring programme, all financial targets will relate to the performance of the Group as a whole (i.e. there will be no bonus targets 
set for individual divisions). Group financial performance will again be measured against a sliding scale of challenging Group profit 
and cash conversion targets.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
Under the DABS, approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM, executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive 
Committee are required to defer 40 per cent of any eligible bonus payment into VT Group shares for a period of three years. 
Individual executive Directors may also elect to defer a further 35 per cent of eligible bonus under the same arrangement. At the  
end of the three-year period, matching shares will be awarded depending on the extent to which adjusted earnings per share  
(EPS) targets have been achieved over the three-year period as shown below.
EPS growth over three years Number of matching shares awarded
Less than RPI + 5% p.a. Nil
RPI + 5% p.a. 1:1
RPI + 7% p.a. 2:1
RPI + 12% p.a. 3:1
Between the above points Straight line
It is currently intended that the DABS will continue to operate in the manner set out above, with EPS targets used to ensure that 
participants are encouraged to deliver strong earnings growth.
Other long-term incentive plans
Prior to the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company’s policy was to make awards to executive Directors under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) and two share option plans (approved and unapproved). Following a review of the long-term incentive provision 
conducted by the Remuneration Committee, the executive share option and LTIP plans were replaced by a single Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) (with accompanying changes to the performance conditions to which future DABS awards would be subject). These plans 
are summarised in greater detail below.
LTIP 
The LTIP approved by shareholders in 2003, provided for annual conditional awards to be made over VT Group shares worth up to 
50 per cent of base salary. The executive Directors, except P J Harrison, still hold conditional awards under this plan which have yet 
to complete the vesting period. The shares are held in trust and are released after three years subject to the extent to which a Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance target is met over the vesting period. The comparator group for measuring performance  
has been the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). If the Company is ranked at the median at the end of the performance period, 
50 per cent of shares will be released, with full vesting for upper quartile performance or above. No shares will vest if the Company  
is ranked below the median. No awards were made under the LTIP in 2008/09 and no further awards will be made.
  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 60
Remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 March 2009 continued
Share option plans 
Until the year ended 31 March 2007, the Company operated two share option plans (a UK Inland Revenue approved plan and an 
unapproved plan), approved by shareholders in 1999 and 1996 respectively, under which Directors and other executives were eligible 
to participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. Options were granted at the market value determined immediately 
before the grant. Annual awards did not normally exceed one times base salary.
Options under the Company’s schemes can normally be exercised only on the achievement of a real EPS growth-based performance 
condition. For the last award granted under these schemes, the performance condition applied was real growth in adjusted EPS of 
at least the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 3 per cent per annum over three consecutive years. If this target is not met at the end of the 
three-year period, the options lapse (i.e. there is no re-testing facility).
All options granted previously have satisfied their performance conditions and are all therefore exercisable in full. No share option 
awards were made in the year ended 31 March 2009 and no further awards will be made.
PSP 
The VT Group 2007 PSP is, together with the DABS, the primary share-based long-term incentive plan now in operation. The PSP 
was approved by shareholders in 2007 and provides for annual awards of conditional shares to be made to executive Directors and 
other eligible executives worth up to a maximum, in normal circumstances, of 100 per cent of salary (200 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). These awards will vest after three years subject to the satisfaction of performance targets based on adjusted EPS 
growth (50 per cent of awards) and in relative TSR performance (50 per cent of awards), thereby providing a balanced incentive to 
senior executives to deliver both outstanding returns to shareholders and strong earnings growth. The vesting schedule that applies 
to awards granted thus far is as follows:
TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts)
Number of PSP 
shares vesting
EPS growth over  
three years 
Number of PSP 
shares vesting
Below median Nil Less than RPI + 5% p.a. Nil
Median 15% RPI + 5% p.a. 15%
Upper quartile 50% RPI + 12% p.a. 50%
Between the above points Straight line Between the above points Straight line
It is currently intended that the PSP will continue to operate in the manner set out above.
Assessing performance under long-term incentive plans 
Performance under the TSR targets in the LTIP and PSP is independently calculated by Hewitt New Bridge Street on behalf of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Under the DABS, PSP and share option plans, the Remuneration Committee will obtain external guidance as regards the extent to 
which the adjusted EPS targets are satisfied.
Share ownership guidelines
To align further the interests of executive Directors and shareholders, executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in 
VT Group worth 100 per cent of salary.
Directors’ service agreements
All executive Directors’ service contracts are of no fixed term and are subject to 12 months’ notice of termination from the Company.
Non-executive Directors are normally appointed for a three-year term which can be extended at the Board’s discretion. All appointees 
are subject to regular re-appointment by shareholders.
Details of the Directors’ contracts are set out in the following tables:
Executive Directors Date of appointment to the Board Date of contract Notice period 
P J Lester 16 November 1998 14 May 2002 12 months 
C J Cundy 8 September 1999 5 January 2004 12 months 
P J Harrison 19 November 2007 19 November 2007 12 months 
P J McIntosh 22 January 2008 22 October 2003 12 months  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 61
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Non-executive Directors
Date of original  
appointment
Date of  
re-appointment
Period of  
appointment
Notice period
M M E Jeffries 16 May 2005 23 July 2008 To AGM 2011 3 months 
D M Barclay 19 May 2003 26 July 2006 To AGM 2009 1 month
Baroness Blackstone 27 January 2004 25 July 2007 To AGM 2010 1 month
Lord Boyce 28 July 2004 25 July 2007 To AGM 2010 1 month
A F Given 5 September 2002 26 July 2006 To AGM 2009 1 month
D A Thorpe
1
31 January 2003 26 July 2006 Resigned 1 month
I P Tyler 12 May 2008 12 May 2008 To AGM 2011 1 month
Notes
1 Resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008
Non-executive Directors’ fees
The fees of the non-executive Directors (other than the Chairman whose fees are set by the Remuneration Committee) are set by 
the Board on the recommendation of the executive Directors, and are reviewed annually. Non-executive Directors are not eligible to 
participate in any of the Company’s bonus or share option schemes, nor do they receive a pension.
With effect from 1 November 2008, the non-executive Directors received an annual base fee of £45,000 with additional fees of £7,500 for 
chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees. The Senior Independent non-executive Director received an additional fee of £6,250 
from 1 November 2008.
The Chairman’s fees are £187,500 per year with effect from 1 November 2008.
The increases in non-executive Directors’ fees that were implemented as a result of the most recent annual review took into account 
their respective time commitments, responsibilities and contributions to the Group.
Policy on external appointments for executive Directors
The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its executive Directors holding appropriate non-executive directorships of 
companies or independent bodies. Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board.
P J Lester is a non-executive Director of Chloride Group plc. He takes holiday from VT Group when meetings occur and retains 
the fees of £36,500. He has a contractual agreement that he can use one day per month for non-executive duties.
Performance graph
Since the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250, the FTSE 250 Index provides an appropriate indication of market movements 
against which to benchmark the Company’s performance. The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance against the  
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the five years ended 31 March 2009.
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) VT Group
50
0
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
31 March 2005 31 March 2006 31 March 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2009 31 March 2004
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Financial
Value (£)
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2009, of £100 invested in VT Group on 31 March 2004 compared with £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 62
Remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 March 2009 continued
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of this report.
Directors’ emoluments
Remuneration table
The various elements of remuneration (excluding employer pension contributions to defined benefit schemes) received by each 
Director were as follows:
 Salary & fees Benefits Annual bonus Pension-related benefits Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive
P J Lester 500 435 33 32 313 412 210 177 1,056 1,056
C J Cundy 250 232 17 12 131 220 97 87 495 551
P J Harrison
1
 300 343 20 4 158 113 60 21 538 481
P J McIntosh
2
 237 41 18 4 119 51 38 7 412 103
Sub-total 1,287 1,051 88 52 721 796 405 292 2,501 2,191
Non-executive
M M E Jeffries  166 150 - 3 - - - - 166 153
D Barclay 46 37 - - - - - - 46 37
Baroness Blackstone 40 36 - - - - - - 40 36
Lord Boyce 40 36 - - - - - - 40 36
A F Given 52 57 - - - - - - 52 57
I P Tyler
5
 36 - - - - - - - 36 -
Sub-total 380 316 - 3 - - - - 380 319
Former Directors
C J Rickard
3
 - 83 - - - - - 17 - 100
D A Thorpe
4
 4 41 - - - - - - 4 41
Sub-total 4 124 - - - - - 17 4 141
Total 1,671 1,491 88 55 721 796 405 309 2,885 2,651
Notes
1 Appointed to the Board on 19 November 2007
2 Appointed to the Board on 22 January 2008
3 Resigned from the Board on 23 April 2007
4 Resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008
5 Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2008
Benefits include the provision of a company car and/or car allowance, fuel and healthcare, all of which are taxable. Pension-related 
benefits include the non-defined benefit pension entitlements referred to in the Pension benefits section.
As stated above, the annual bonus is payable under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme approved at the AGM in July 2005 and is 
split between cash and shares. 40 per cent of any bonus paid up to 70 per cent of salary must be deferred under the scheme into 
shares, with each participant having the option to defer a further 35 per cent of eligible bonus if they so wish.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, P J Harrison received £237,000 in compensation for deferred remuneration from previous 
employment (contained in the above figures). The Remuneration Committee believes this was the fair value of the remuneration he 
had foregone on leaving his prior employment.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, C J Rickard received three month’s salary (contained in the above figures) as compensation for loss 
of office during the year. All his LTIP and share options lapsed on leaving the Company.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, A F Given received an additional £10,000 (contained in the above figures) for the period in which he 
acted as Chairman of the Company.
The highest paid Director was P J Lester. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 63
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Pension benefits
With the exception of P J Harrison, the executive Directors are members of the Group’s contributory pension scheme which entitles 
them to a pension on retirement of two-thirds of pensionable salary after 20 years’ service; details of accrued benefits are set out 
below. No elements of remuneration apart from salary are pensionable. The normal retirement age for directors is 60.
P J Lester and C J Cundy’s pensionable salaries within the Group’s contributory pension scheme were capped by a notional earnings 
cap of £117,600 (increasing to a cap of £123,600 in 2009/10). P J Lester and C J Cundy received a pension supplement of 55 per cent 
and 65 per cent respectively of salary above the cap (plus, if paid into a pension scheme, the value of any employer’s national insurance 
contributions saved). P J McIntosh received a pension supplement of 16 per cent of salary.
P J Harrison does not participate in the defined benefit scheme, being closed to new members. Instead, he participates in the SIPS 
money purchase scheme with an employer contribution of 20 per cent of salary.
     Transfer Transfer 
  Total Total  value value  Increase in  
  accrued accrued Change in of accrued of accrued Member’s transfer value  
  pension at pension at accrued pension as at pension as at contributions less member  
  1 April 2008 1 April 2009 benefits 1 April 2008 1 April 2009 over the year contributions 
  £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Director
P J Lester  21,620 26,460 4,840 471,124 576,050 9,996 94,930
C J Cundy  52,219 57,419 5,200 745,533 790,213 9,996 34,684
P J McIntosh  50,410 55,036 4,626 784,909 832,100 9,996 37,195
  The total accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year
  The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11
  Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting 
benefits are included in the table above
  The Remuneration Committee has determined that no special arrangements will be made for executives who are affected by  
the lifetime allowance
Directors’ interests in shares
 At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008
Ordinary shares  Beneficial  Non-beneficial  Beneficial  Non-beneficial
D M Barclay  10,000  -  10,000  -
Baroness Blackstone  6,942  -  6,942  -
Lord Boyce  1,200  -  1,200  -
C J Cundy  119,634  -  78,517  -
A F Given  3,000  -  3,000  -
P J Harrison  9,566  -  4,573  -
M M E Jeffries  50,000  -  50,000  -
P J Lester  216,609  -  198,318  -
P J McIntosh  2,260  -  2,727  -
D A Thorpe*  5,000  -  5,000  -
I P Tyler*  -  -  -  -
*At date of appointment, resignation or retirement, as appropriate
During the year none of the Directors had an interest in the share capital of any of the Company’s subsidiaries. There have been no 
changes in the above holdings between 31 March 2009 and 12 May 2009. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 64
Remuneration report  
for the year ended 31 March 2009 continued
Directors’ interests in share options and long-term incentive plans
Share options
The following figures relate to participation in the Group’s executive share option schemes. The middle market value of the Company’s 
ordinary shares on 31 March 2009 was 578.0p and the range during the year was 432.2p to 706.5p.
 Number of options
    At 31.3.2009  Gain on 
 At 1.4.2008 Granted Exercised or date of Exercise exercise Date from  
 or date of during and sold resignation/ price price which  Expiry 
 appointment the year during year retirement p p exercisable date
P J Lester 12,195
+
 - - 12,195
+
 246 - 08.07.06 07.07.13
 214,227* - - 214,227* 246 - 08.07.06 07.07.13
 178,462* - - 178,462* 455 - 25.05.09 24.05.16
C J Cundy 60,277* - - 60,277* 216 - 18.12.05 17.12.12
 9,259
+
 - - 9,259
+
 324 - 19.05.08 18.05.15
 58,148* - - 58,148* 324 - 19.05.08 18.05.15
P J McIntosh 12,396
+
 - - 12,396
+
 242 - 14.11.06 13.11.13
 49,587* - - 49,587* 242 - 14.11.06 13.11.13
 56,790* - - 56,790* 324 - 19.05.08 18.05.15
* The Vosper Thornycroft Executive Share Option Plan 1996
+
 The Vosper Thornycroft Approved Share Option Plan 1999
Share options granted prior to June 2005 were subject to a performance condition which required the increase and normalised 
earnings per ordinary share of the Company to have exceeded the growth in the RPI by an average of at least 2 per cent per annum up 
to the date on which the share options were first exercisable. For share options granted after June 2005, the equivalent performance 
condition was 3 per cent above RPI per annum.
No executive Directors have interests in either the Company’s sharesave schemes or the share incentive plan.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
This table sets out the shares provisionally allocated under the LTIP.
      Retained &   Value of  Total value 
     Allocated matching Share price  shares on  of shares 
 Date of  Retained Matching shares shares on date Earliest date date of  released
4
 
 allocation Allocated
1
 shares
2
 shares released released of release for release allocation
3
 £000
P J Lester 27.07.05 58,418 - - 58,418 - 618.5p 27.07.08 334.1p 361
 14.07.06 41,916 - - - - - 14.07.09 484.3p -
C J Cundy 27.07.05 32,684 3,237 3,237 32,684 6,474 618.5p 27.07.08 334.1p 222
 14.07.06 22,548 - - - - - 14.07.09 484.3p -
P J McIntosh 27.07.05 27,536 2,727 2,727 27,536 5,454 618.5p 27.07.08 334.1p 187
1 This represents the maximum allocation, subject to the achievement of the performance target
2 The purchase of the retained shares has been funded by subscription from the individual Director and the share numbers are included in the table on page 63
3 This figure is used to calculate the number of shares originally allocated
4 This figure excludes retained shares which have been previously reported as annual bonus
The performance conditions applied to all awards made under the LTIP are as described above on page 59. The performance 
condition applying to the awards made in the year ended 31 March 2005 was met in full, resulting in full vesting of this award. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 65
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme
This table sets out the shares granted under the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS).
      Number of  
     Number of matching 
     deferred shares  
    Date of shares conditionally  Share price Earliest 
    grant awarded
1
 awarded
2
 on grant date release date
P J Lester    16.05.06 24,145 72,435 460.75p 16.05.09 
    21.05.07 19,993 59,979 578.75p 21.05.10 
    20.05.08 18,291 54,873 663.50p 20.05.11
C J Cundy    16.05.06 13,509 40,527 460.75p 16.05.09 
    21.05.07 10,754 32,262 578.75p 21.05.10 
    20.05.08 18,252 54,756 663.50p 20.05.11
P J McIntosh    20.05.08 2,260 6,780 663.50p 20.05.11
P J Harrison    20.05.08 4,993 14,979 663.50p 20.05.11
1  Deferred shares are awarded in respect of bonus deferred under the terms of the DABS described in detail above. The shares vest three years after grant subject to 
continued employment.
2  Matching shares will vest three years after grant subject to the satisfaction of EPS performance targets as outlined on page 59 and continued employment. For the DABS 
awards made in the year ended 31 March 2006, the range of three-year EPS growth targets was RPI plus 3%–10% p.a. with a further requirement that EPS must grow 
in each year by RPI plus 3%. The performance condition applying to later DABS awards is set out on page 59. The performance condition applying to the DABS awards 
granted in the year ended 31 March 2006 has been met in full, resulting in full vesting of this award which will be released on 16 May 2009. To ensure the appropriate level 
of transparency and consistency of approach and to reflect the developing structure of the Group, when determining the vesting of this award, together with all other 
awards granted under the DABS, option plans and PSP that have EPS-based performance conditions that may vest in the future, the adjusted basic EPS of continuing 
operations will be used as the basis of calculation.
Performance Share Plan
This table sets out the shares granted under the Performance Share Plan (PSP).
        Value of  
     Allocated Share price  shares on  
   Date of  shares on date Earliest date date of  
   grant Allocated
1
 released of release for release allocation
P J Lester   05.09.07 72,925 - - 05.09.10 569.5p 
   13.05.08 74,074 - - 13.05.11 675.0p
C J Cundy   05.09.07 38,810 - - 05.09.10 569.5p 
   13.05.08 37,037 - - 13.05.11 675.0p
P J McIntosh   13.05.08 35,111 - - 13.05.11 675.0p
P J Harrison   22.11.07 23,889 - - 22.11.10 613.0p 
   13.05.08 44,444 - - 13.05.11 675.0p 
   11.11.08 17,457 - - 11.11.11 558.5p
1 This represents the maximum allocation, subject to the achievement of the performance target
P J Harrison received awards totalling 132 per cent of salary in the year, which is above the normal policy limit but within the 
parameters of the plan. The supplementary PSP award granted in November 2008 reflected the terms of his contract, agreed upon 
his joining the Group in November 2007, which entitled him to receive a pro-rata award in respect of the remainder of that financial 
year. This supplementary award will vest based on the same performance conditions as for the other awards granted in the year, 
which are set out on page 60.
Dilution limits
The Company’s share incentive schemes, including the sharesave scheme, operate within the Association of British Insurers’ dilution 
limit of 5 per cent in 10 years for executive schemes, and all its plans operate within the 10 per cent in 10 years limit for all schemes.
By order of the Board
D M Barclay 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
12 May 2009 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 66
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in respect of the annual report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the 
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant 
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. The parent 
company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities. Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a 
Directors’ report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Statement of Directors’ responsibilities confirm that, so far as they are 
each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all 
the steps that he ought to have taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
We the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
  the financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for the company 
under UK GAAP, in accordance with applicable UK law and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the Group; and
   the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group.
By order of the Board
P J Lester P J Harrison 
Chief Executive  Finance Director 
12 May 2009 12 May 2009 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 67
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of VT Group plc
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements (the financial statements) of VT Group plc for the year ended  
31 March 2009 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated 
cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes. These financial statements 
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report 
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial 
statements and the Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 66.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 
the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information 
given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required 
to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements 
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report 
to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we 
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration 
report to be audited.
In our opinion:
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, 8 Salisbury Square, London 
12 May 2009
  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of 
the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for 
the year then ended;
  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation;
  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,  
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,  
of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2009;
  the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with 
the financial statements. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 68
Consolidated income statement  
for the year ended 31 March 2009
     Result before Exceptional 
     exceptional items   
     items (note 7) Total 2008 
    Notes 2009 2009 2009 (as restated) 
     £m £m  £m £m
Combined sales of Group and share  
of equity accounted investments    3,4 1,095.7 - 1,095.7 845.4
Less: adjustment for share of equity accounted investments   (72.1) - (72.1) (114.5)
Revenue – continuing operations    3,4 1,023.6 - 1,023.6 730.9
Cost of sales     (839.5) - (839.5) (605.1)
Gross profit – continuing operations    184.1 - 184.1 125.8
Administrative expenses     (124.3) (28.3) (152.6) (88.1)
Group operating profit – continuing operations    59.8 (28.3) 31.5 37.7
 
Share of results of equity accounted investments  19 7.5 - 7.5 11.8
 
Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets arising from  
business combinations, fair value movements on derivatives held by,  
and taxation expense of equity accounted investments  4 93.4 (28.3) 65.1 65.6
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations 4 (23.0) - (23.0) (9.9)
Fair value movement on derivatives held by equity accounted investments 19 (0.8) - (0.8) (1.2)
Taxation expense of equity accounted investments   19 (2.3) - (2.3) (5.0)
 
Operating profit – continuing operations   4 67.3 (28.3) 39.0 49.5
 
Finance income    10 14.3 - 14.3 9.0
Finance expenses    11 (21.1) - (21.1) (13.0)
Net financing costs     (6.8) - (6.8) (4.0)
 
Profit from continuing operations before taxation    60.5 (28.3) 32.2 45.5
Income tax expense    12 (14.7) 7.6 (7.1) (8.4)
Profit for the year from continuing operations    45.8 (20.7) 25.1 37.1
Net result for the year from discontinued operations  5   83.5 20.9
Net result for the period       108.6 58.0
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent       107.8 56.8
Minority interest       0.8 1.2
       108.6 58.0
Basic earnings per share – continuing operations   13   13.7p 20.3p
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations   13   13.4p 19.9p
Basic earnings per share – discontinued operations   13   47.1p 11.9p
Diluted earnings per share – discontinued operations  13   46.1p 11.5p
Basic earnings per share – total    13   60.8p 32.2p
Diluted earnings per share – total    13   59.5p 31.4p VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 69
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense for the year ended 31 March 2009
      Notes 2009 2008 
       £m £m
Profit for the year       108.6 58.0
Other recognised income and expense for the year:      
Exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations     13.3 0.5
Derivative financial instruments – effective cash flow hedges     (1.4) (1.4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains arising on Group pension obligations    41 (74.3) 22.1
Revaluation gains arising on the acquisition of VT Flagship    20 35.1 -
Current tax on items taken directly to equity     12 (2.0) 2.8
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity     12 17.8 (4.1)
       (11.5) 19.9
Amounts in respect of equity accounted investments: 
Actuarial losses on share of pension obligations     19 (7.3) (1.5)
Tax on losses on share of pension obligations     19 2.0 0.4
Current tax on items taken directly to equity     19 0.2 -
Derivative financial instruments – effective cash flow hedges (net of deferred tax)   19 (3.2) (0.3)
Net income recognised directly in equity      (19.8) 18.5
Total recognised income and expense for the year     88.8 76.5
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent      36 88.6 74.4
Minority interest      36 0.2 2.1
 
Total recognised income and expense for the year     88.8 76.5 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 70
Consolidated balance sheet  
at 31 March 2009
      Notes 2009 2008 
        (as restated) 
       £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment      15 99.8 171.4
Investment property      16 - 0.7
Goodwill      17 303.3 254.1
Other intangible assets       18 153.9 70.7
Equity accounted investments      19 14.6 30.3
Financial assets      21 5.8 0.4
Other receivables      24 0.7 4.1
Deferred tax assets      12 36.9 19.0
Total non-current assets       615.0 550.7
Current assets
Inventories      22 10.7 18.5
Trade and other receivables      24 241.0 214.0
Income tax receivable       12.1 6.1
Other financial assets      21 2.2 2.1
Assets held for sale      25 119.7 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents      26 51.5 60.1
Total current assets       437.2 301.6
TOTAL ASSETS       1,052.2 852.3
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     28 82.5 18.6
Trade and other payables      27 278.3 296.0
Income tax payable       4.8 2.7
Other financial liabilities      28 0.8 0.5
Provisions      30 31.7 9.6
Total current liabilities       398.1 327.4
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     28 161.2 186.7
Other payables       2.5 2.8
Other financial liabilities      28 3.5 1.3
Retirement benefits      41 60.5 9.7
Provisions      30 30.7 18.6
Deferred tax liabilities      12 65.0 43.0
Total non-current liabilities       323.4 262.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES       721.5 589.5
NET ASSETS       330.7 262.8
EQUITY
Issued share capital      36 8.9 8.9
Share premium      36 43.9 40.6
Revaluation reserve      36 32.2 -
Hedging reserve      36 (2.0) (1.0)
Translation reserve      36 9.0 (2.0)
Retained earnings      36 236.4 213.6
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent      328.4 260.1
Minority interest      36 2.3 2.7
TOTAL EQUITY       330.7 262.8
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 May 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
P J Harrison P J Lester 
Finance Director Chief Executive VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 71
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Consolidated cash flow statement  
for the year ended 31 March 2009
    Notes 2009 2009 2008 2008 
     £m £m £m £m
Adjustments to reconcile profit after tax to net cash flows  
from operating activities:
Profit after tax      108.6  58.0
Income tax expense    12  7.0  13.3
Financial income    10  (14.5)  (12.5)
Financial expense    11  23.5  16.0
Fair value movement in put option    5  (4.1)  -
Share of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments  19  10.4  (18.1)
Unrealised operating profit arising from contracts with joint ventures  19  0.3  -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   15  17.4  17.1
Depreciation of investment property    16  -  0.1
Impairment of assets held for resale      -  0.3
Amortisation of intangible assets    18  24.4  10.9
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment   6  (4.8)  0.7
Loss on disposal of business    5  4.3  -
Accounting result on transfer of shipbuilding business   5  (100.8)  -
Foreign currency differences      2.2  (2.4)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments     3.0  13.6
Changes in fair value of financial instruments     -  (0.1)
Equity settled share-based payment expenses   35  5.3  4.1
Difference between pension contributions paid and  
amounts recognised in the income statement     (6.9)  0.6
Decrease/(increase) in inventories      10.0  (1.8)
(Increase) in trade and other receivables     (59.5)  (12.3)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables     13.4  (17.8)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions      25.3  (4.0)
Cash flow from operating activities  Continuing 37 97.9  64.3  
  Discontinued 37 (33.4)  1.4 
      64.5  65.7
Tax paid      (20.8)  (11.4)
Net cash inflow from operations  Continuing  70.9  52.9  
  Discontinued  (27.2)  1.4 
      43.7  54.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received      9.2  4.4
Disposal of property, plant and equipment     11.6  1.3
Proceeds from assets held for resale      0.8  3.2
Purchase of other investments      (0.3)  -
Sale of subsidiary undertaking (net of cash disposed of)     (1.9)  -
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired)     13.5  (74.3)
Investment in equity accounted investments (net of cash  
contributed and distribution of pre-transaction reserves)    10.5  (0.1)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (13.8)  (27.7)
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets     (0.7)  (1.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities Continuing  19.1  (106.1)  
  Discontinued  9.8  11.9 
      28.9  (94.2) VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 72
    Notes 2009 2009 2008 2008 
     £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid      (18.1)  (14.2)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent   14  (24.0)  (21.4)
Dividends paid to minority interests    36  (0.6)  (2.0)
Proceeds from issue of share capital    36  2.0  5.3
Loans advanced      1.7  (0.3)
New borrowings      -  91.0
Purchase of treasury shares    36  (3.9)  (2.0)
Repayment of loans      (45.9)  (32.0)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities Continuing  (87.0)  25.6  
  Discontinued  (1.8)  (1.2) 
      (88.8)  24.4
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents Continuing  3.0  (27.6)  
  Discontinued  (19.2)  12.1 
      (16.2)  (15.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year     60.1  75.2
Net foreign exchange movements      7.6  0.4
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   26  51.5  60.1
Consolidated cash flow statement  
for the year ended 31 March 2009 continued VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 73
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its 
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 130 to 134. VT Group plc is a public 
limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
financial statements and have been applied consistently by Group companies. The Group’s results for the year have not been 
materially affected by the adoption of any new accounting standards.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
i  Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis as modified for derivative financial instruments 
that have been measured at fair value and under the going concern basis as detailed in the Going concern section of the Corporate 
governance report on page 54 of the Annual report.
The Group financial statements are presented in UK sterling and all values are stated in £m except where otherwise indicated.
ii  Changes in accounting policy
Changes in accounting presentation – segmental information 
As detailed in note 4, the segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been restated to reflect better the nature of the 
Group’s operations following the transfer of the Group’s interests in naval shipbuilding and related support businesses to BVT Surface 
Fleet Limited, and the acquisition of a 45 per cent interest in that business (as set out in note 5).
Changes in accounting presentation – disclosure of pension financing items 
In order to give greater comparability with our peer companies, our accounting policy in respect of the presentation of pension 
financing items has been changed to present them as components of finance income and expense rather than as a component of 
operating profit. Prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect this change with the effect of reducing previously reported 
operating profit by £6.4m and a corresponding reduction in net financing costs. There is no effect on reported profit before tax 
resulting from this change.
Changes in accounting measurement – business combinations 
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Group has reassessed the provisional fair values and purchase consideration in respect of the acquisition 
of VT Nuclear Services Limited made in the prior financial year. As a result of this reassessment, goodwill arising from the transaction 
has increased by £3.3m from that previously assessed. In addition, trade and other receivables decreased by £1.7m; current tax 
liabilities decreased by £1.2m; deferred tax assets increased by £1.3m; trade and other payables increased by £1.4m; and provisions 
increased by £2.7m. There was no effect on the reported profit for the prior year.
iii  Use of judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, the areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed in the following notes:
  Note 5 – Discontinued operations
  Note 7 – Exceptional items
  Note 17 – Goodwill (impairment reviews)
  Note 20 – Business combinations and disposals (measurement of fair values)
  Note 30 – Provisions (measurement of long term provisions including industrial injury)
  Note 35 – Share-based payments (measurement of fair value of awards)
  Note 41 – Retirement benefits (selection of assumptions for measurement of liability)
iv  Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of VT Group plc and its subsidiaries at each balance sheet 
date, and include its share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ results on the equity method. A subsidiary is an entity controlled by 
the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are consolidated up to, or from, the date on which control passes. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 74
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
v  Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint ventures are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise joint control with its partners 
under a contractual agreement. Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise 
significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The Group’s share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates are included in the consolidated income statement as an 
element of profit before tax. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying 
amount of that interest is reduced to £nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group 
has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the net investment in joint ventures and associates is carried as a non-current asset at the share  
of the joint venture’s or associate’s equity including any goodwill arising on the Group’s acquisition of its interest.
vi  Revenue
Revenue is measured by reference to the fair value of consideration received or receivable by the Group for goods supplied and services 
provided, excluding VAT and trade discounts. Revenue is recognised upon the performance of services or transfer of risk to the customer.
Sale of goods 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the following conditions have been satisfied:
  the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods which is generally when the risks 
and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer;
  the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control 
over the goods sold;
  the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
  it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group; and
  the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Rendering of services 
When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be estimated reliably, revenue associated with the 
transaction is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date. The outcome of 
the transaction is deemed to be able to be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
  the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
  it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;
  the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
  the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
In the case of the majority of the Group’s long-term service contracts which may involve an indeterminate number of acts over a 
specified period of time, revenue will be recognised on a straight-line basis unless other evidence such as the direct costs incurred  
in delivering those services provides a more appropriate way of estimating the stage of completion.
Where a contract for goods or services involves delivery of several different elements (typically representing the delivery of a 
construction phase and services phase) and is not fully delivered or performed by the year end, revenue is recognised based on 
the proportion of the fair value of the elements delivered to the fair value of the overall contract.
Construction contracts 
Revenue from construction contracts (for the Group this would include all infrastructure projects including ICT infrastructure) is 
recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract. The stage of completion is determined according to the nature of 
the specific contract concerned. Methods used to assess the stage of completion include incurred costs as a proportion of total costs, 
labour hours incurred, or earned value of work performed. Profit attributable to the contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of 
such contracts can be reliably assessed. An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Variations and claims are included where it is probable that the amount will be settled. When the outcome of a construction contract 
cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable that those 
costs will be recoverable.
The Group presents as an asset the gross amount due from customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which costs 
incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) exceed progress billings. Progress billings not yet paid by customers and 
retentions are included within ‘trade and other receivables’.
The Group presents as a liability the gross amount due to customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which billings 
exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 75
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Equipment leasing income 
Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases.
vii  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items which, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order 
to provide greater visibility of the underlying results of the business which the Board believes to be a more meaningful indication of 
ongoing operational performance.
viii  Leases
Finance leases, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned, are capitalised on the 
balance sheet at the lower of fair value of the leased asset and net present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of 
the lease. The corresponding liabilities are recorded as non-current or current liabilities depending on the period when they are due. 
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases as a finance cost. 
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance cost and the reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the period 
of the relevant committed lease period.
Assets held for leasing out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and investment property at cost  
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
ix  Income tax
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which 
case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Temporary differences are not 
provided for as follows:
  goodwill not deductible for tax purposes;
  initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and
  differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, to the extent that they will probably  
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
x  Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs, including interest costs incurred relating to qualifying assets.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings up to 50 years, or the lease term if shorter 
Computer equipment 3 to 5 years 
Fixtures and fittings 5 years 
Motor vehicles 4 to 10 years 
Plant and machinery 5 to 10 years 
Heavy equipment 20 to 33 years
Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
The residual value and useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reassessed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are 
made on a prospective basis. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 76
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
xi  Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part 
of the cost of that asset when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
xii  Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the identifiable 
intangible and tangible assets net of the fair value of the liabilities including contingencies of businesses acquired at the date 
of acquisition.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is recognised as an intangible asset. Goodwill arising on the acquisition 
of a joint venture or associated undertaking is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses that arise from annual assessment of its carrying value. To the 
extent that the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, goodwill is written down and an impairment charge is recognised in the 
income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the estimated value in use. Value in use is 
determined from estimated discounted future net cash flows.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Goodwill written off 
to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on 
disposal. Between 1998 and the Group’s conversion to IFRS, goodwill was accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP. The Group’s 
opening goodwill balance on transition to IFRS took advantage of the transitional exemptions within IFRS 1.
xiii  Research costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
xiv  Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and, from a business combination, are capitalised at fair value as at  
the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets created within the business are not capitalised and expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which the 
expenditure is incurred.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring  
to use the specific software.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible asset.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Acquired software licences 2–5 years 
Brands 3–20 years 
Customer contracts and relationships Typically 4–10 years with a maximum of 30 years in respect of specific long-term relationships.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
xv  Investment properties
Land and buildings that are leased to non-Group entities are classified as investment properties. The Group applies the cost model  
to measure investment properties at their cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of investment properties over their estimated useful lives of up  
to 50 years.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
xvi  Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are tested for impairment when events occur, or circumstances indicate, that their carrying 
values may be impaired. Goodwill is subject to annual impairment tests. Impairments arising are charged to the income statement.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset, or its cash-generating unit, exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 77
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual 
asset. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does 
not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has 
been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, 
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
xvii  Other investments
The Group determines the classification of its other investments at initial recognition. The classification depends upon the purpose 
for which the investments were acquired. Currently the Group has other investments designated as ‘available-for-sale’ and ‘loans 
and receivables’.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade-date, namely the date on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value 
through profit and loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred, and 
the Group has transferred substantially all risk and rewards of ownership.
xviii  Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in-first-out principle, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and 
bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an 
appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
xix  Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An estimate 
for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less impairment losses.
xx  Cash, cash equivalents and net debt
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts repayable on demand.
The Group definition of net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, loans receivable and amounts payable on interest bearing loans.
xxi  Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currency of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling 
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated 
to functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised 
in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to 
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to 
sterling at average rates of exchange during the year. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in 
a separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that 
particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement. Translation differences that arose before the transition date 
to IFRS were deemed to be £nil. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 78
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
xxii  Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets are categorised, depending on the purpose for which the assets were acquired, on initial recognition as either:
  Assets held at fair value through profit or loss which are held for trading in the short-term and are classified as current assets;
  Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets which are not quoted in an active market. These are classified as current 
or non-current assets depending on maturity and included within trade and other receivables;
  Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to 
maturity; or
  Available-for-sale financial assets which are non-derivative financial assets designated by management as available for sale and  
not falling into any of the above categories.
Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as:
  Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss which are held for trading in the short-term and are classified as current or non 
current liabilities depending on the maturity date of the instruments; or
  Other liabilities held at cost.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial 
liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial 
asset or financial liability. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value. 
Loans and receivables are carried at cost, or amortised cost where applicable, using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities 
not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at cost.
xxiii  Derivative financial instruments
The Group primarily uses foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency fluctuations. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments 
for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and 
interest rate swaps are calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised as they arise  
in the income statement.
xxiv  Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price at which one party would assume the rights and/or duties of another party.
The fair value of financial instruments has been determined based on available market information at the balance sheet date.
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price 
and deducting the current spot rate. For interest rate swaps broker quotes are used. Those quotes are back tested using pricing 
models or discounted cash flow techniques. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based 
on management’s best estimates and the discount rate is a market-related rate for a similar instrument at the balance sheet date. 
Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market-related data at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
xxv  Hedge accounting
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either 
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction. The Group currently only has 
designated cash flow hedges.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting (such as a known foreign 
currency payment or a known interest payment), the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an 
effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the 
acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised 
in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the profit or loss.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising in fair value are taken directly to profit or loss for the year. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 79
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss for the year.
xxvi  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the amount of the consideration received net of issue costs 
associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
The Group has certain borrowings relating to Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts where there is no recourse to the Group in the 
event of default. Such loans, although recognised in full on the Group’s balance sheet, are classified as non-recourse loans within the 
analysis of net debt provided.
xxvii  Retirement benefit plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount 
rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s 
obligations. The calculations, together with the cost of providing benefits under the plans, are performed by a qualified actuary using 
the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are recognised in the statement of recognised 
income and expense.
xxviii  Long-term service benefits
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit 
credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. The discount rate is the yield 
at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations.
xxix  Share-based payment transactions
Share-based incentive arrangements are provided to employees under the Group’s share option, incentive and other award schemes. 
Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of 
grant or award using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged to operating profit over the vesting period of the scheme, 
with a corresponding entry recorded within equity. The annual charge is modified to take account of shares forfeited by employees 
who leave during the vesting period and, in the case of non-market-related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely the 
option will vest.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives 
and senior employees. Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the 
balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
xxx  Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an 
appropriate discount rate.
Provisions for losses on contracts are recorded when it becomes probable that the total estimated contract costs will exceed the 
total contract revenues. Such provisions are recorded as write downs of work in progress for that portion of the work which has 
already been completed, and as liability provisions for the remainder. Losses are determined on the basis of estimated results on 
completion of contracts which are updated regularly.
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products and services are sold. The provision is based on historical 
warranty data and a weighting of all possible outcomes against their associated probabilities.
Provisions for restructuring or reorganisation are recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan 
and the restructuring has either commenced, or has been publicly announced. Future operating costs are not provided for.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than 
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligation under the contract. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 80
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
xxxi  Accounting for PFI contracts
In determining an appropriate accounting policy for the Group’s interests in PFI projects under Adopted IFRSs, the Group has 
considered the current status of the project by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) on accounting 
for service concession arrangements. IFRIC published IFRIC 12 – ‘Service Concession Arrangements’ in December 2006 which 
is generally applicable for accounting periods commencing after 1 January 2008. However, IFRIC 12 was only endorsed by the 
EU during April 2009 and, as a consequence, a transitional provision is available to IFRS adopters in the EU to adopt for years 
commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group has opted not to adopt this pronouncement early and, for the year ended 31 March 2009, it has continued to apply 
elements of the approach set out in UK Financial Reporting Standard 5 ‘Reporting the substance of transactions’ in accounting for its 
interests in PFI projects. This involves applying a ‘risks and rewards’ test to determine whether a non-current asset or finance debtor 
model should be followed. Once the accounting model has been determined, the recognised assets and liabilities of the PFI projects 
are measured in accordance with Adopted IFRS. The Group will be adopting IFRIC 12 for the year commencing 1 April 2009.
The Group expenses costs incurred in developing and competing for contracts up until a contract has achieved preferred bidder 
stage. Costs incurred after preferred bidder status has been achieved are held on the balance sheet and recovered through contract 
activity. Such costs are subject to review for impairment if there are indicators that they may not be recoverable.
xxxii  Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and:
  represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations;
  is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area; or
  is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement is re-presented as if the operation 
had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
xxxiii  Assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying value will be recovered through disposal rather than continuing 
use within the business, the asset is available for sale in its present condition and the sale is highly probable. Following reclassification, 
non-current assets are measured in the balance sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and fair values less costs to sell.
xxxiv  Critical accounting policies
An analysis and explanation of the Group’s critical accounting policies used in producing this set of financial statements is made in 
the Financial review on pages 12 to 13 of the Annual report.
xxxv  New standards and interpretations applied in these financial statements
With effect from 1 April 2008, the Group adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding 
Requirements and their Interaction’ which clarifies when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relations to defined benefit 
assets should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of the minimum funding requirements on such assets. 
This has had no impact on the reported results of the Group.
xxxvi  New standards and interpretations applied next year
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied  
in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective.
The following are likely to have an impact on the Group’s results.
  IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business combinations’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. This will significantly 
change the recognition of goodwill, acquisition costs and contingent consideration relating to acquisitions. However, it applies  
only to acquisitions made after it has been adopted.
  IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. This may change the way in which we 
report operating segments. A detailed review of the impact of this standard is currently in progress.
  IFRIC 12 ‘Service concession arrangements’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. A detailed review  
of the impact of this interpretation is in progress.
  IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008. 
A review of the impact of this interpretation is in progress.
  IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of assets from customers’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. A review of the impact  
of this interpretation is in progress. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 81
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
The following remaining standards and interpretations are not expected to impact materially the Group’s results.
  IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. 
This will require a different accounting treatment for minority interest but it is not expected to affect the Group’s financial results  
or position materially.
  IFRS 2 (Amendment) ‘Share-based payments’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. This provides 
a definition of vesting conditions and specifies the accounting treatment for non-vesting conditions. It is not expected to affect 
materially the share-based payment charge recognised in the Group accounts.
  IAS 1 (Revised) ‘Presentation of financial statements’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
This changes the presentation requirements for other comprehensive income and transactions with shareholders and requires 
increased disclosures when there is a restatement of comparatives.
  IAS 23 (Amendment) ‘Borrowing costs’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. This eliminates the  
option of expensing all borrowing costs when they are incurred.
  IAS 32 (Amendment) ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. 
This clarifies the treatment of puttable financial instruments.
  IFRIC 13 ‘Customer loyalty programmes’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
  IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
  IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of non-cash assets to owners’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
3 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the income statement is analysed as follows:
  2009  2008
    Share of   Share of 
    equity   equity 
    accounted   accounted 
   Group investments Total Group investments Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Sale of goods   10.3 - 10.3 12.6 2.7 15.3
Construction contracts   59.1 14.3 73.4 3.2 29.3 32.5
Rendering of services   879.4 57.8 937.2 638.4 82.5 720.9
Equipment leasing income   74.8 - 74.8 76.7 - 76.7
Revenue from continuing operations  1,023.6 72.1 1,095.7 730.9 114.5 845.4
Discontinued operations
Sale of goods   31.3 - 31.3 48.5 - 48.5
Construction contracts   22.7 374.3 397.0 207.9 - 207.9
Rendering of services   31.5 77.2 108.7 22.3 66.5 88.8
Equipment leasing income   2.7 3.6 6.3 10.4 - 10.4
Revenue from discontinued operations  88.2 455.1 543.3 289.1 66.5 355.6
Total
Sale of goods   41.6 - 41.6 61.1 2.7 63.8
Construction contracts   81.8 388.6 470.4 211.0 29.3 240.3
Rendering of services   910.9 135.0 1,045.9 660.5 149.0 809.5
Equipment leasing income   77.5 3.6 81.1 87.4 - 87.4
Total revenue   1,111.8 527.2 1,639.0 1,020.0 181.0 1,201.0
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods or services (2008: £nil). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 82
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
4 Segment reporting
In accordance with IAS 14, segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments. 
The primary segment reporting format is determined to be business segments as the Group’s risks and rates of return are affected 
predominantly by differences in the products and services provided. Secondary segment information is reported geographically.
The Group’s geographical segments are based on the location of the Group’s assets. Sales to external customers disclosed in 
geographical segments are based on the geographical location of its customers.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s-length basis. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include 
transfers between business segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on  
a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used  
for more than one period.
Changes in accounting presentation
Following shareholder approval on 30 June 2008, the Group transferred its interests in naval shipbuilding and related support 
businesses, including its 50 per cent interest in Fleet Support Limited, to BVT Surface Fleet Limited (BVT), a joint venture with  
BAE Systems plc, in consideration for a 45 per cent interest in BVT, and also acquired the remaining 50 per cent interest in Flagship 
Training Limited (VT Flagship Limited) which was previously a joint venture with BAE Systems plc. As a consequence of these 
transactions the Group has reviewed the classification of its business segments previously reported in its consolidated financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2008. The key changes are as follows:
  The transfer of the businesses previously reported as VT Shipbuilding to the BVT Naval segment. Amounts reported in this segment 
also include all amounts reported by BVT. These businesses are now treated as a discontinued operation as detailed below.
   The transfer of VT Naval Support businesses from the VT Support Services segment to the BVT Naval segment. This business  
is now treated as a discontinued operation as detailed below.
  The inclusion of VT Flagship Limited within the VT Education & Skills segment having been previously reported within the 
VT Support Services segment to reflect operational responsibility for the VT Flagship business.
The Group comprised the following main business segments:
VT Communications – provides critical communications services in the broadcast, defence, space, emergency services and security 
sectors worldwide.
VT Support Services – provides technical services, logistics and training for commercial customers, government bodies and all three 
armed services in the UK and around the world. Activities include facilities management, consultancy, operation and maintenance of 
assets, provision of specialist manpower, waste management, nuclear services and supply chain management.
VT Education & Skills – provides a wide range of supporting services to schools, Local Education Authorities and central government, 
including careers guidance and the provision of vocational work-based training.
VT Services Inc – provides a range of support service activities, including base operations, facilities management and the installation 
and support of communication systems. This activity is primarily for the US Department of Defense.
Discontinued operations – represent the Group’s BVT Naval segment. This includes the businesses constituting the VT Shipbuilding 
segment in the Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 (including those businesses transferred to BVT 
Surface Fleet Limited (BVT) on 1 July 2008) and the Group’s interest in BVT. BVT designs and constructs advanced naval vessels for 
the Royal Navy and navies worldwide and provides related maintenance and support services. The segment’s activities also include 
the design and manufacture of smaller craft and equipment for the marine, offshore and aerospace markets. On 28 January 2009 the 
Group announced its intention to exercise its put option in relation to its shares in BVT, and this business has therefore been classified 
as discontinued in accordance with IFRS 5 (see note 5). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 83
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
4 Segment reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – business segments
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s business segments 
for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008.
Year ended 31 March 2009
  VT VT VT  Total before 
 VT Support Education Services  discontinued Discontinued 
 Communications Services & Skills Inc Elimination operations operations Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Combined sales of  
Group and equity  
accounted investments 115.1 410.1 267.3 303.2 - 1,095.7 543.3 1,639.0
Less: share of equity  
accounted investments - (37.4) (34.7) - - (72.1) (455.1) (527.2)
Revenue 115.1 372.7 232.6 303.2 - 1,023.6 88.2 1,111.8
Inter-segment revenue 8.0 4.2 1.3 0.2 (13.7) - - -
Segment revenue 123.1 376.9 233.9 303.4 (13.7) 1,023.6 88.2 1,111.8
Adjusted segment result* 19.8 27.1 21.2 14.1 - 82.2 3.4 85.6
Adjusted share of joint  
venture profit** - 8.8 2.4 - - 11.2 (15.4) (4.2)
 19.8 35.9 23.6 14.1 - 93.4 (12.0) 81.4
Amortisation of intangible  
assets arising from  
business combinations - (8.7) (10.7) (3.6) - (23.0) (2.5) (25.5)
Fair value movements  
of derivatives - (0.8) - - - (0.8) 4.9 4.1
Taxation of joint  
venture profit - (1.6) (0.7) - - (2.3) 0.5 (1.8)
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 19.8 24.8 12.2 10.5 - 67.3 (9.1) 58.2
Exceptional items (1.4) (13.4) (11.3) (2.2) - (28.3) 94.7 66.4
Net finance costs      (6.8) (2.2) (9.0)
Profit before taxation      32.2 83.4 115.6
Income tax expense      (7.1) 0.1 (7.0)
Net profit for year      25.1 83.5 108.6
* Adjusted segment result represents the segment result before amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations.
**  Adjusted share of joint venture profit is the share of joint venture profit before amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations, fair value movements  
on derivatives and taxation. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 84
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
4 Segment reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – business segments (continued)
Year ended 31 March 2009
  VT VT VT 
 VT Support Education Services Discontinued 
 Communications Services & Skills Inc operations Elimination Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets  132.4 279.1 232.4 173.4 - - 817.3
Investment in equity  
accounted investments  0.1 14.5 - - - - 14.6
Assets held for sale  - - - - 119.7 - 119.7
Unallocated assets        100.6
Total assets        1,052.2
Segment liabilities  (39.4) (169.0) (98.4) (54.4) - - (361.2)
Unallocated liabilities        (360.3)
Total liabilities        (721.5)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Tangible fixed assets  1.7 10.4 0.5 0.7 0.5 - 13.8
Intangible fixed assets  0.1 0.3 0.2 0.1 - - 0.7
Depreciation  2.2 11.3 0.9 1.2 1.8 - 17.4
Amortisation  0.2 10.0 10.3 3.8 0.1 - 24.4
Unallocated assets and liabilities include Group-wide bank funding and pension scheme balances. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 85
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
4 Segment reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – business segments (continued)
Year ended 31 March 2008 (as restated)
  VT VT VT  Total before 
 VT Support Education Services  discontinued Discontinued 
 Communications Services & Skills Inc Elimination operations operations Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Combined sales of  
Group and equity  
accounted investments 107.2 293.0 203.8 241.4 - 845.4 355.6 1,201.0
Less: share of equity  
accounted investments - (20.0) (91.6) (2.9) - (114.5) (66.5) (181.0)
Revenue 107.2 273.0 112.2 238.5 - 730.9 289.1 1,020.0
Inter-segment revenue 1.5 6.5 - - (8.0) - - -
Segment revenue 108.7 279.5 112.2 238.5 (8.0) 730.9 289.1 1,020.0
Adjusted segment result 16.9 17.5 4.2 8.4 - 47.0 19.0 66.0
Adjusted share of joint  
venture profit - 9.1 9.3 0.2 - 18.6 9.2 27.8
 16.9 26.6 13.5 8.6 - 65.6 28.2 93.8
Amortisation of intangible  
assets arising from  
business combinations - (5.2) (2.4) (2.3) - (9.9) - (9.9)
Fair value movements  
of derivatives - (1.2) - - - (1.2) - (1.2)
Taxation of joint  
venture profit - (1.9) (3.1) - - (5.0) (2.9) (7.9)
Operating profit 16.9 18.3 8.0 6.3 - 49.5 25.3 74.8
Net finance costs      (4.0) 0.5 (3.5)
Profit before taxation      45.5 25.8 71.3
Income tax expense      (8.4) (4.9) (13.3)
Net profit for year      37.1 20.9 58.0 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 86
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
4 Segment reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – business segments (continued)
Year ended 31 March 2008 (as restated)
  VT VT VT 
 VT Support Education Services Discontinued 
 Communications Services & Skills Inc operations Elimination Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets  119.1 281.8 69.0 137.0 130.4 - 737.3
Investment in equity  
accounted investments  - 14.3 12.0 - 4.0 - 30.3
Assets held for sale  - 0.8 - - - - 0.8
Unallocated assets        83.9
Total assets        852.3
Segment liabilities  (29.8) (128.3) (27.3) (39.9) (104.7) - (330.0)
Unallocated liabilities        (259.5)
Total liabilities        (589.5)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:        
Tangible fixed assets  6.6 8.2 0.2 0.9 11.8 - 27.7
Intangible fixed assets  0.1 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 - 1.0
Depreciation  1.6 9.1 1.0 0.7 4.8 - 17.2
Amortisation  0.3 5.2 2.5 2.5 0.4 - 10.9
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise centrally-held properties, Group-wide bank funding and Group-wide pension 
scheme balances. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 87
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
4 Segment reporting (continued)
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
The following tables present revenue, expenditure and certain asset information regarding the Group’s geographical segments for the 
years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008.
Year ended 31 March 2009
 Continuing operations
 United   North Africa   Discontinued 
 Kingdom Europe America and Asia Other Sub-total operations Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales to external customers 745.0 18.4 307.4 13.2 11.7 1,095.7 543.3 1,639.0
Less share of equity 
accounted investments (72.1) - - - - (72.1) (455.1) (527.2)
Revenue 672.9 18.4 307.4 13.2 11.7 1,023.6 88.2 1,111.8
Other segment information
Segment assets 708.8 4.1 199.5 1.3 4.2 917.9 119.7 1,037.6
Investment in equity  
accounted investments 14.6 - - - - 14.6 - 14.6
Total assets 723.4 4.1 199.5 1.3 4.2 932.5 119.7 1,052.2
Capital expenditure:
Tangible fixed assets 12.3 - 0.7 - 0.3 13.3 0.5 13.8
Intangible fixed assets 0.6 - 0.1 - - 0.7 - 0.7
Depreciation 14.1 - 1.3 - 0.2 15.6 1.8 17.4
Amortisation 20.5 - 3.8 - - 24.3 0.1 24.4
Year ended 31 March 2008 (as restated)
 Continuing operations
 United   North Africa   Discontinued 
 Kingdom Europe America and Asia Other Sub-total operations Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales to external customers 561.6 7.8 246.4 17.4 12.2 845.4 355.6 1,201.0
Less share of equity 
accounted investments (111.6) - (2.9) - - (114.5) (66.5) (181.0)
Revenue 450.0 7.8 243.5 17.4 12.2 730.9 289.1 1,020.0
Other segment information
Segment assets 521.9 - 152.4 1.0 3.7 679.0 143.0 822.0
Investment in equity  
accounted investments 26.3 - - - - 26.3 4.0 30.3
Total assets 548.2 - 152.4 1.0 3.7 705.3 147.0 852.3
Capital expenditure:
Tangible fixed assets 14.5 - 0.9 - 0.5 15.9 11.8 27.7
Intangible fixed assets 0.5 - 0.2 - - 0.7 0.3 1.0
Depreciation 11.6 - 0.7 - 0.1 12.4 4.8 17.2
Amortisation 8.0 - 2.5 - - 10.5 0.4 10.9 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 88
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
5 Discontinued operations
Creation of BVT joint venture
On 1 July 2008, the Group transferred the majority of its interest in its naval shipbuilding and support businesses to BVT Surface Fleet 
Limited (BVT), a joint venture with BAE Systems plc (BAE) in consideration for a 45 per cent interest in the ordinary share capital of 
BVT and a put option (the put option) over that interest (the transaction).
In forming the joint venture the Group contributed net assets with a total net book value of £41.1m and incurred costs of £17.0m in 
completing the transaction. The provisional fair value of net liabilities contributed by BAE was £66.8m. The put option over the interests 
in the shares of the joint venture was valued at £6.2m on initial recognition. Goodwill, representing the excess of 55 per cent of the 
fair value of the business contributed by VT Group and related transaction costs over 45 per cent of the fair value of the net liabilities 
contributed by BAE, of £163.9m, arose as a result of this transaction giving an initial joint venture carrying amount of £152.6m (including 
the previously held interest in the Fleet Support joint venture of £2.7m). An accounting gain arose from this transaction, representing 
the difference between the fair value of the total consideration received and the book value of the assets disposed, of £100.8m.
The total net book values of the VT Group net assets transferred at the date of the transaction were as follows:
        £m
Property, plant and equipment        62.4
Intangible assets (including goodwill)        4.5
Equity accounted investments        2.7
Inventories        0.5
Trade and other receivables        94.4
Cash and cash equivalents        0.5
Trade and other payables        (107.3)
Provisions        (1.3)
Deferred tax        (0.5)
Employee benefits        (14.8)
Total net identifiable assets and liabilities transferred from VT Group to BVT joint venture    41.1
Accounting gain on assets contributed to BVT joint venture
Fair value of consideration received (including related put option)      121.1
Share of net assets transferred         (20.3)
Gain arising        100.8
Interest in joint venture
Fair value of consideration given (including costs of transaction) analysed as:
Share of provisional fair value of interest in net assets acquired as a result of the transaction    (30.1)
Goodwill arising         163.9
        133.8
Retained interest in assets and liabilities transferred to BVT joint venture      18.8
Total interest in joint ventures arising (including previously held interest in Fleet Support Limited)    152.6
Accounting for BVT
Subsequent to the creation of BVT, the Group has equity accounted for its interest in BVT and 45 per cent of the share of the result  
of BVT is included within discontinued operations.
The Group’s share of the result of BVT subsequent to its creation includes a charge of £24m, representing the Group’s share 
of additional costs on certain export contracts contributed to the joint venture by VT Group. The Directors estimate that these 
contracts will result in an overall loss to BVT of £54m based on the Board’s experience of shipbuilding together with independent 
reviews performed by specialist consultants. Inevitably there is a range of possible outcomes and the overall loss represents the 
Directors’ best estimate of losses based on information currently available.
The Directors have noted that BAE, in its annual report for the year ended 31 December 2008, reported loss provisions of £96m (£53m 
at BAE’s 55 per cent share) through its fair value accounting, consistent with estimates provided by BVT management. This loss 
provision, which has not been approved by the BVT Board, is outside the range which the Directors consider to be reasonably 
likely given available synergies and risk mitigation strategies. The projected costs on these contracts continue to be updated by 
BVT management. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 89
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
5 Discontinued operations (continued)
Negotiations are at an early stage with BAE in relation to these export contracts and a possible injection of capital by VT Group 
into the BVT business in a form which will not impact the existing equity holdings or management rights. Any such injection of capital 
would, however, result in an exceptional charge being recorded within discontinued operations in the period in which made. Whilst it 
is possible that an injection of capital may be made, the Directors do not believe it appropriate to make any provision for such 
injection at this stage, nor, given the circumstances, is it practicable to estimate reliably the amount of any such contribution.
Accounting for discontinued operations
On 28 January 2009, the Group announced its intention to exercise the put option, which enables the Group to put its 45 per cent 
shareholding in BVT to BAE for a minimum exit price of £380m, subject to specific adjustments downwards in respect of pension 
liabilities, notional interest on BAE loans to BVT and certain other items. Exercise of the put option requires UK Ministry of Defence 
(MoD) approval, in addition to approval by the Group’s shareholders and other regulatory bodies. The Group has been advised by the 
MoD that it has approved the exercise of the put option subject to finalising the details of the 15-year Terms of Business Agreement. 
The Group expects to exercise the put option around 1 July 2009.
On completion of the sale of its interest in BVT to BAE, VT Group will have exited its shipbuilding and naval support business and 
accordingly the Group has presented these as a discontinued operation. The profit from discontinued operations for the year 
ended 31 March 2009 therefore represents the results of BVT, together with the results of the VT Shipbuilding business prior to its 
contribution to BVT on 1 July 2008, and the results of Motion Control Group including its loss on disposal. Motion Control Group was 
primarily involved in the provision of stabilizers to the shipbuilding industry. Comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 2008 
have been restated. The results of the discontinued operations are set out below.
In the light of the Group’s intention to sell its interest in BVT, the Group’s investment in BVT, together with the related put option are 
presented in the balance sheet as ‘held for sale’.
The financial results for the year in respect of discontinued operations are shown below.
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Income statement
Combined sales of Group and equity accounted investments     543.3 355.6
Less share of equity accounted investments      (455.1) (66.5)
Revenue       88.2 289.1
Cost of sales       (72.9) (251.1)
Administrative expenses (including reorganisation costs of £0.5m)     (12.4) (19.0)
Loss on disposal of businesses       (4.3) -
Accounting gain arising upon assets contributed to joint venture     100.8 -
Fair value movement in put option       4.1 -
Share of joint venture profit (including reorganisation costs of £1.3m)    (17.9) 6.3
        85.6 25.3
Finance (expense)/income       (2.2) 0.5
Result from discontinued operations before income taxes     83.4 25.8
Income tax benefit/(expense)       0.1 (4.9)
Net operating result from discontinued operations      83.5 20.9 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 90
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
6 Group operating profit
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Research expenditure   0.3 - - 0.4 0.3 0.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  15.6 12.3 1.8 4.8 17.4 17.1
Depreciation of investment properties   - 0.1 - - - 0.1
Impairment of assets held for resale   - 0.3 - - - 0.3
Amortisation of intangible assets   24.3 10.5 0.1 0.4 24.4 10.9
Total depreciation and amortisation expense  39.9 23.2 1.9 5.2 41.8 28.4
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4.8) 0.5 - 0.2 (4.8) 0.7
Foreign currency differences   0.4 (0.1) - (2.3) 0.4 (2.4)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense  73.6 61.7 6.1 5.3 79.7 67.0
Operating lease payments    118.4 109.0 2.7 10.7 121.1 119.7
7 Exceptional items
The results for the period include a number of non-recurring items, largely resulting from the formation of the BVT joint venture and 
the refocusing of the Group on its services businesses, including the related reorganisation programme and rationalisation of core 
assets. These are items which, in management’s judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order to 
provide greater visibility of the underlying results of the business, which the Board believes to be a more meaningful indication of 
ongoing operational performance. An analysis of the exceptional items included within the income statement is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Accounted for in arriving at Group operating profit:
Reorganisation and restructuring costs       24.7 -
Increase to provision relating to historic asbestos exposure     8.0 -
Profit arising from disposal of properties      (4.4) -
Net non-recurring and restructuring gains included in arriving  
at operating profit from continuing operations      28.3 -
Taxation arising on exceptional items       (9.3) -
Exceptional tax charge in respect of legislation change relating to industrial buildings allowances   1.7 -
       (7.6) -
Post-tax exceptional items from continuing operations     20.7 -
Following the formation of BVT, the Group is reorganising and restructuring its remaining services activities, including the integration 
of VT Flagship into the Group. This programme has begun and will continue into the next financial year. The total cost of this 
reorganisation programme is estimated at £24.7m.
Upon formation of BVT it was agreed that the Group would remain responsible for all retrospective asbestos claims from VT Group 
employees. A reassessment of the provision for asbestos exposures has been made during the year with the assistance of specialist 
advisors and adopting current assumptions in relation to recent claims experience and mortality data. As a result of this exercise the 
provision relating to these claims was increased during the year by £8.0m.
During the period the Group disposed of surplus properties for proceeds of £9.6m in cash, giving rise to a profit of £4.4m.
In addition to the taxation effect on the items described above, there is a one-off taxation charge arising in the current year of £1.7m 
associated with the UK Government’s abolition of industrial buildings allowances, which is a non-cash adjustment to deferred tax 
balances within the financial statements. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 91
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
8 Auditors’ remuneration
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of  
the Company and consolidated financial statements      0.3 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     0.8 0.5
Transaction services       0.3 1.2
Other services       0.3 0.1
       1.7 2.0
The Group has entered into merger and acquisition activities, during both the current and prior year, that have required work to be 
performed by the Group’s auditors in a regulatory reporting accountant role.
9 Staff costs and Directors’ emoluments
(a) Staff costs
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
        (as restated) 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries   323.7 228.0 12.5 51.0 336.2 279.0
Social security costs   26.8 18.2 1.1 4.5 27.9 22.7
Other pension costs    22.2 15.5 1.3 8.0 23.5 23.5
   372.7 261.7 14.9 63.5 387.6 325.2
Included in wages and salaries is a total expense of share-based payments of £6.4m (2008: £5.0m) of which £5.3m (2008: £4.1m) 
arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The pension costs represent £17.0m (2008: £17.9m) in respect of defined benefit schemes and £6.5m (2008: £5.6m) in respect of 
defined contribution schemes.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   No No No No No No
VT Services Inc   3,651 3,684 - - 3,651 3,684
VT Education & Skills   3,359 2,146 - - 3,359 2,146
VT Communications   751 734 - - 751 734
VT Support Services   3,749 3,149 - - 3,749 3,149
Corporate central functions   180 197 - - 180 197
Discontinued operations   - - 741 1,919 741 1,919
   11,690 9,910 741 1,919 12,431 11,829
(b) Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments are included in the Remuneration report on pages 58 to 65. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 92
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
10 Finance income
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income on loans and receivables  9.0 2.6 0.2 1.8 9.2 4.4
Net finance income arising from pension schemes (note 41) 3.0 6.4 - - 3.0 6.4
Interest income on financial assets designated as at  
fair value through profit and loss    - - - 1.7 - 1.7
Net foreign exchange gains   2.3 - - - 2.3 -
Total finance income   14.3 9.0 0.2 3.5 14.5 12.5
11 Finance expenses
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured  
at amortised cost:
Bank loans and overdrafts – recourse  12.6 6.0 0.6 3.0 13.2 9.0
Bank loans – non-recourse   1.3 1.3 - - 1.3 1.3
Finance lease   1.6 2.2 - - 1.6 2.2
Other loans   1.5 0.2 0.2 - 1.7 0.2
Facility fees   0.3 2.0 - - 0.3 2.0
Deferred consideration   3.1 - - - 3.1 -
Interest expense on financial liabilities designated  
as at fair value through profit and loss   - - 1.6 - 1.6 -
Unwinding of discount in respect of provisions  0.7 - - - 0.7 -
Net foreign exchange losses   - 1.3 - - - 1.3
Total finance expenses   21.1 13.0 2.4 3.0 23.5 16.0
12 Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Tax charged in the income statement
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax   8.6 10.4 1.7 1.9 10.3 12.3
Foreign tax   4.0 0.7 (2.1) - 1.9 0.7
Current tax expense/(income)   12.6 11.1 (0.4) 1.9 12.2 13.0
Amounts under/(over) provided in previous years  2.8 (1.9) (0.8) 3.3 2.0 1.4
Total current tax expense/(income)   15.4 9.2 (1.2) 5.2 14.2 14.4
Deferred tax expense/(income)   (8.3) (0.8) 1.1 (0.3) (7.2) (1.1)
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement  7.1 8.4 (0.1) 4.9 7.0 13.3
  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 93
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
12 Taxation (continued)
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Deferred tax
Actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes      20.8 (6.5)
Net gain on revaluation of derivative financial instruments     0.4 0.4
Share-based payments       (3.4) 1.9
Exchange differences on retranslation       - 0.1
Tax credit/(charge) in the statement of recognised income and expense    17.8 (4.1)
Current tax
Exchange differences on retranslation       (2.7) -
Share-based payments       0.7 2.8
       (2.0) 2.8
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28 per cent 
(2008: 30 per cent). The differences are reconciled below:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Accounting profit before income tax       115.6 71.3
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 28 per cent (2008: 30 per cent)  32.3 21.4
Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures      2.9 (5.4)
Over-provided in prior years       0.6 0.2
Effect of non-taxable accounting gain arising on BVT transaction     (28.2) -
Other       (0.6) (2.9)
Total tax expense reported in the income statement      7.0 13.3
(c) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Deferred tax in the income statement
Accelerated capital allowances       0.7 (0.8)
Acquisition fair value adjustments       (4.4) (2.5)
Revaluation of cash flow hedges       (0.4) 0.5
Share-based payments       (1.7) (0.4)
Pension benefits       2.1 1.9
Adjustments in respect of prior years       (1.4) 0.4
Other       (2.1) (0.2)
Deferred tax income       (7.2) (1.1) VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 94
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
12 Taxation (continued)
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Deferred tax balance sheet movements
Balance at 1 April       (24.0) (18.7)
Amounts included in profit and loss account      7.2 1.1
Amounts charged direct to equity       17.8 (4.1)
Arising on acquisition       (27.8) (1.6)
Transfer to joint venture       0.5 -
Other transfers       (1.0) (0.7)
Foreign currency adjustments       (0.8) -
Balance at 31 March       (28.1) (24.0)
 
       2009 2008 
        (as restated)* 
       £m £m
Deferred tax asset
Accelerated capital allowances       1.7 2.6
Other long-term benefits       1.5 0.6
Pension benefits       17.1 3.0
Acquisition fair value adjustments       4.1 0.9
Share-based payments       3.6 5.7
Revaluation of derivative instruments       1.2 0.5
Lease rental deduction       0.6 0.7
Other       7.1 5.0
Deferred tax asset       36.9 19.0
Deferred tax liability
Accelerated capital allowances       23.7 22.2
Revaluation in respect of derivative instruments      0.5 0.6
Acquisition fair value adjustments       0.4 1.2
Intangible assets arising from business combinations     39.4 17.1
Other temporary timing differences       1.0 1.9
Deferred tax liability       65.0 43.0
* Details of the restatement are set out in note 2. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 95
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
13 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that 
would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – continuing operations    24.3 35.9
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – discontinued operations    83.5 20.9
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – total     107.8 56.8
 
       2009 2008 
       No No
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding treasury shares)    177,342,363 176,469,027
Dilutive potential ordinary shares – employee share options     3,662,570 4,471,147
Diluted weighted average number of shares      181,004,933 180,940,174
 
       2009 2008
Basic earnings per share – continuing operations      13.7p 20.3p
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations      13.4p 19.9p
Basic earnings per share – discontinued operations      47.1p 11.9p
Diluted earnings per share – discontinued operations     46.1p 11.5p
Basic earnings per share – total       60.8p 32.2p
Diluted earnings per share – total       59.5p 31.4p
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date 
of completion of these financial statements.
Adjusted basic earnings per share
Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets acquired from business combinations, exceptional items and market 
value movements in respect of derivative instruments, which the Directors consider gives a useful additional indicator of performance, 
is calculated on earnings for the period as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – continuing operations    24.3 35.9
Charges/(credits) included in profit:
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations    23.0 9.9
Exceptional items       28.3 -
Market value movements in respect of derivatives      0.8 1.2
Tax on charges included in profit       (16.2) (4.4)
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent     60.2 42.6
Adjusted basic earnings per share – continuing operations     33.9p 24.1p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share – continuing operations     33.2p 23.6p VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 96
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
14 Dividends paid and proposed
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2008 of 9.55p (2007: 8.6p) per ordinary share     17.0 15.1
Interim dividend for 2009 of 3.9p (2008: 3.55p) per ordinary share     7.0 6.3
       24.0 21.4
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2009 of 10.5p (2008: 9.55p) per ordinary share     18.8 17.0
15 Property, plant and equipment
     Land and Plant and Under  
     buildings equipment construction Total  
     £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2007     89.2 140.7 2.9 232.8
Additions     10.9 14.8 2.0 27.7
Acquired through business combinations    4.0 2.2 0.8 7.0
Disposals     (0.7) (9.2) - (9.9)
Transfers     0.8 0.4 (1.2) -
Balance at 31 March 2008      104.2 148.9 4.5 257.6
Foreign currency adjustment     1.2 2.5 - 3.7
Additions     1.4 11.9 0.5 13.8
Acquired through business combinations    - 0.2 - 0.2
Transfers to joint venture     (55.0) (28.4) - (83.4)
Disposed with business     - (3.2) - (3.2)
Disposals     (9.5) (10.0) - (19.5)
Transfers     - 0.4 (1.0) (0.6)
Balance at 31 March 2009     42.3 122.3 4.0 168.6
Depreciation and impairment
Balance at 1 April 2007     16.1 60.9 - 77.0
Depreciation charge for year     4.2 12.9 - 17.1
Disposals     (0.7) (7.2) - (7.9)
Transfers     0.3 (0.3) - -
Balance at 31 March 2008     19.9 66.3 - 86.2
Foreign currency adjustment     0.3 1.3 - 1.6
Transfers to joint venture     (11.8) (9.2) - (21.0)
Disposed with business     - (2.0) - (2.0)
Depreciation charge for year     2.7 14.7 - 17.4
Disposals     (6.0) (7.4) - (13.4)
Balance at 31 March 2009     5.1 63.7 - 68.8
Net book value
At 31 March 2009     37.2 58.6 4.0 99.8
At 31 March 2008     84.3 82.6 4.5 171.4
At 1 April 2007     73.1 79.8 2.9 155.8
Security
At 31 March 2009, assets with a net book value of £15.9m (2008: £17.5m) were subject to charges to secure two of the Group’s bank 
loans. Assets with a net book value of £2.2m (2008: £2.7m) were held under finance lease arrangements. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 97
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
16 Investment property
        £m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2007 and at 31 March 2008       1.1
Disposals        (1.1)
At 31 March 2009        -
Depreciation and impairment
Balance at 1 April 2007        0.3
Depreciation charge for year        0.1
Balance at 31 March 2008        0.4
Depreciation charge for year        -
Disposals        (0.4)
At 31 March 2009        -
Net book value
At 31 March 2009        -
At 31 March 2008        0.7
At 1 April 2007        0.8
Investment property included a number of commercial and residential properties that were leased to third parties. These properties were 
disposed of during the year. The estimated fair value of investment property at 31 March 2008 amounted to £2.4m which was determined 
having regard to market transactions at that time for similar properties in the same location as the Group’s investment property.
17 Goodwill
        £m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2007         206.1
Foreign currency adjustment        (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries        44.8
Balance at 31 March 2008        250.8
Fair value adjustments to prior year acquisition       3.3
Balance at 31 March 2008 (as restated)       254.1
Foreign currency adjustment        18.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 20)        42.4
Adjustments to purchase price of prior year acquisitions      (6.3)
Assets transferred upon formation of joint venture       (3.8)
Disposal of subsidiary (note 20)        (1.3)
Balance at 31 March 2009        303.3
Net book value
At 31 March 2009        303.3
At 31 March 2008 (as restated)        254.1
At 1 April 2007        206.1 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 98
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
17 Goodwill (continued)
During the previous year the Group acquired British Nuclear Group Project Services Limited (VT Nuclear Services). Goodwill of 
£21.5m was recognised at 31 March 2008 based on provisional fair values. During the year the fair values were finalised and in 
accordance with IFRS 3, an increase to goodwill of £3.3m has been made as outlined in note 2 to the financial statements. In addition 
the Group negotiated a revised overall reduction in the purchase consideration of £6.4m.
The Group also acquired Advanced Engineering and Planning Corporation (VT Aepco) during the previous financial year. The purchase 
consideration in respect of this acquisition was subject to certain performance criteria. During the current financial year the performance 
criteria have exceeded the original expectations and as such an additional consideration of £0.9m has become payable.
Goodwill has been allocated to the following significant cash-generating units:
       2009 2008 
        (as restated) 
       £m £m
UK
VT Communications       79.1 79.1
VT Aerospace       27.2 27.2
VT Training       20.2 20.2
VT Flagship       41.6 -
VT Land       21.3 21.3
VT Nuclear Services       18.4 24.8
US
VT Griffin       27.7 24.8
VT Milcom       20.5 15.4
VT Aepco       33.8 23.4
Other cash-generating units       13.5 17.9
Total goodwill       303.3 254.1
The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on 
financial budgets approved by the Board. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections was 10 per cent to 14 per cent 
(2008: 10 per cent to 13 per cent) and cash flow projections beyond the five-year forecast were extrapolated using a 2.5 per cent 
growth rate (2008: 2.5 per cent).
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the following key assumptions:
 Cash flow projections;
 Discount rates; and
 Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period.
Cash flow projections are based on the financial plans approved by the Board as part of the Group’s medium-term strategy planning, 
excluding any possible future acquisition plans. These plans consist of a one-year detailed budget and future forecasts for the 
following four years. Cash flow projections are also compared to historic performance as part of this planning process.
Discount rates reflect the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for specific risks relating to certain cash-generating 
units. Growth rate estimates are based on published information in respect of long-term growth rates and are appropriate for all of the 
Group’s cash-generating units because they operate in similar economic environments.
The impairment review as required by IAS 36 has been undertaken at 31 March 2009 and no impairment loss has been recognised.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any 
unit to exceed its recoverable amount. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 99
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
18 Other intangible assets
      Customer 
       contracts and Computer 
     Brands relationships software Total  
     £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2007     4.7  48.5  11.4  64.6
Foreign currency adjustment     - (0.1) - (0.1)
Additions     - - 1.0 1.0
Disposal of subsidiary     - - (1.6) (1.6)
Acquired through business combinations    1.7 27.8 - 29.5
Balance at 31 March 2008     6.4 76.2 10.8 93.4
Foreign currency adjustment     1.7 6.2 0.5 8.4
Additions     - - 0.7 0.7
Transfers from property, plant and equipment    - - 0.6 0.6
Assets transferred upon formation of joint venture    - - (1.8) (1.8)
Acquired through business combinations    15.2 85.4 1.0 101.6
Balance at 31 March 2009     23.3 167.8 11.8 202.9
Amortisation and impairment
Balance at 1 April 2007     0.7 7.5 5.2 13.4
Disposals     - - (1.6) (1.6)
Amortisation for the year     1.2 8.0 1.7 10.9
Balance at 31 March 2008     1.9 15.5 5.3 22.7
Foreign currency adjustment     0.5 1.6 0.1 2.2
Amortisation for the year     2.1 20.4 1.9 24.4
Assets transferred upon formation of joint venture    - - (1.1) (1.1)
Acquired through business combinations    - - 0.8 0.8
Balance at 31 March 2009     4.5 37.5 7.0 49.0
Net book value
At 31 March 2009     18.8 130.3 4.8 153.9
At 31 March 2008     4.5 60.7 5.5 70.7
At 31 March 2007     4.0 41.0 6.2 51.2
Customer contracts and relationships and brands are intangible assets acquired through business combinations and are measured 
using the cost model. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 100
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
19 Equity accounted investments
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Investments in associates       - 0.1
Investments in joint ventures       14.6 30.2
Investments accounted for using the equity method      14.6 30.3
The Group has the following interests in joint ventures and associates:
    Ownership
 Principal activity Country 2009 2008
VT Flagship Limited (now wholly owned) Provision of training England n/a 50%
ALC (Superholdco) Limited Provision of support services England 50% 50%
Airtanker Services Limited Provision of support services England 23% 23%
Learning 21 Lewisham PSP Limited Provision of support services England 50% 50%
Lewisham Schools for the Future LEP Limited Provision of support services England 40% 40%
Lewisham Schools for the Future SPV Limited Provision of support services England 40% 40%
Careers Enterprise (Futures) Limited Provision of careers advice England 26% 26%
Ascent Flight Training (Holdings) Limited Provision of support services England 50% -
BVT Surface Fleet Limited Construction of naval craft and  England 45% - 
 provision of support services
Fleet Support Limited (now held within BVT) Provision of support services England - 50%
  Joint ventures Associates Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April    30.2 26.5 0.1 0.6 30.3 27.1
Additions   0.8 - - 0.1 0.8 0.1
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 0.1 - - - 0.1 -
Share of (losses)/profits retained   (10.6) 17.9 0.2 0.2 (10.4) 18.1
Unrealised profit arising on contracts with joint venture (0.3) - - - (0.3) -
Dividends received   (24.7) (13.1) (0.3) (0.5) (25.0) (13.6)
Arising on formation of joint venture   149.9 - - - 149.9 -
Transfer to assets held for sale   (109.4) - - - (109.4) -
Transfer to subsidiary undertaking   (13.1) - - - (13.1) -
Actuarial (losses) on pension obligations (net of deferred tax) (5.3) (0.8) - (0.3) (5.3) (1.1)
Current taxation on share-based payments  0.2 - - - 0.2 -
Financial instruments – effective cash flow hedges  
(net of deferred tax)   (3.2) (0.3) - - (3.2) (0.3)
At 31 March   14.6 30.2 - 0.1 14.6 30.3
Distributions from equity accounted investments are subject to the usual restrictions and covenants applied by each relevant funding 
provider to those entities. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 101
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
19 Equity accounted investments (continued)
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of equity accounted investments at 31 March and for the year then ended  
are as follows:
  Joint ventures Associates Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Share of balance sheet
Non-current assets   37.2 39.2 0.8 0.1 38.0 39.3
Current assets   79.7 93.8 25.7 13.6 105.4 107.4
Share of gross assets   116.9 133.0 26.5 13.7 143.4 146.7
Current liabilities   15.6 58.3 26.5 3.2 42.1 61.5
Non-current liabilities   86.7 44.5 - 10.4 86.7 54.9
Share of gross liabilities   102.3 102.8 26.5 13.6 128.8 116.4
Share of net assets   14.6 30.2 - 0.1 14.6 30.3
Income statement – continuing operations
Revenue   48.8 101.7 23.3 12.8 72.1 114.5
Cost of sales   (27.3) (73.6) (21.5) (12.2) (48.8) (85.8)
Administrative expenses   (9.4) (10.5) (1.5) (0.3) (10.9) (10.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising  
from business combinations   (0.6) (0.6) - - (0.6) (0.6)
Fair value movements in derivatives   (0.8) - - - (0.8) (1.2)
Net finance (expense)/income   (1.2) (0.5) - - (1.2) 0.7
Profit before income taxes   9.5 16.5 0.3 0.3 9.8 16.8
Income tax expense   (2.2) (4.9) (0.1) (0.1) (2.3) (5.0)
Net profit   7.3 11.6 0.2 0.2 7.5 11.8
Income statement – discontinuing operations
Revenue   455.1 66.5 - - 455.1 66.5
Cost of sales   (458.8) (55.0) - - (458.8) (55.0)
Administrative expenses   (10.5) (2.6) - - (10.5) (2.6)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising  
from business combinations   (2.5) - - - (2.5) -
Exceptional items   (1.3) - - - (1.3) -
Net finance (expense)/income   (0.4) 0.3 - - (0.4) 0.3
Profit before income taxes   (18.4) 9.2 - - (18.4) 9.2
Income tax credit/(expense)   0.5 (2.9) - - 0.5 (2.9)
Net profit   (17.9) 6.3 - - (17.9) 6.3
Income statement – total
Revenue   503.9 168.2 23.3 12.8 527.2 181.0
Cost of sales   (486.1) (128.6) (21.5) (12.2) (507.6) (140.8)
Administrative expenses   (19.9) (13.1) (1.5) (0.3) (21.4) (13.4)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising  
from business combinations   (3.1) (0.6) - - (3.1) (0.6)
Exceptional items   (1.3) - - - (1.3) -
Fair value movements in derivatives   (0.8) - - - (0.8) (1.2)
Net finance (expense)/income   (1.6) (0.2) - - (1.6) 1.0
Profit before income taxes   (8.9) 25.7 0.3 0.3 (8.6) 26.0
Income tax expense   (1.7) (7.8) (0.1) (0.1) (1.8) (7.9)
Net profit   (10.6) 17.9 0.2 0.2 (10.4) 18.1 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 102
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
20 Business combinations and disposals
Disposal of Motion Control Group of businesses
On 19 March 2009, the Group disposed of the trade and certain assets and liabilities of the Motion Control Group of businesses 
forming part of the Group’s BVT Naval segment (and previously part of VT Group’s shipbuilding business).
Book values of the net assets at the date of disposal were as follows:
        Book 
        values 
        £m
Goodwill        1.3
Property, plant and equipment        1.2
Inventories        3.7
Trade and other receivables        3.8
Cash and cash equivalents        0.9
Trade and other payables        (7.9)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities        3.0
Foreign exchange transferred from translation reserve      0.3
Costs incurred relating to disposal        1.0
Loss arising on disposal        4.3
Under the terms of the acquisition, contingent consideration may be receivable depending on profit targets to be measured to the 
period ended 31 March 2010. Management has estimated the level of contingent consideration at £nil based on the results achieved 
for this period, and the inherent risk associated with the likelihood of this consideration being received.
The results of this business have been included within discontinued operations as detailed in note 5. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 103
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
20 Business combinations and disposals (continued)
Acquisition of Flagship Training Limited
On 1 July 2008 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital in Flagship Training Limited (previously a 50 per cent 
joint venture) for consideration, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, of £81.8m satisfied by deferred consideration and 
cash as detailed below. The business has subsequently been renamed VT Flagship Limited and provides training services primarily  
to the Royal Navy. Book and provisional fair values of the net assets at the date of acquisition were as follows:
      Book Fair value Fair value 
      values adjustments to Group 
      £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment      0.2 - 0.2
Intangible assets      0.2 97.6 97.8
Deferred tax assets      0.3 - 0.3
Loans receivable      14.5 - 14.5
Inventories      0.2 - 0.2
Trade and other receivables      19.1 - 19.1
Cash and cash equivalents      25.7 - 25.7
Trade and other payables      (30.5) - (30.5)
Employee benefits      (1.2) - (1.2)
Income tax payable      (1.8) - (1.8)
Provisions      (7.3) - (7.3)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      (1.3) - (1.3)
Deferred tax liabilities      - (27.3) (27.3)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities      18.1 70.3 88.4
Goodwill on acquisition        41.6
        130.0
Discharged by:
Cash consideration        16.2
Costs associated with the acquisition        0.6
Interest bearing deferred consideration       65.0
Total consideration on acquisition of additional 50 per cent      81.8
Previously held interest        13.1
Revaluation of previously held share of assets to fair value      35.1
        130.0
The intangible assets arising relate to customer contracts and relationships and valuation of the Flagship brand.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition is principally attributable to the skills and technical talent of the acquired businesses’ 
workforce, synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition and those other assets not requiring valuation under IFRS 3.
Contingent consideration of £10.0m may be payable or receivable under the terms of the acquisition, depending on the renewal of 
certain contracts held by VT Flagship Limited. The Board has estimated the level of contingent consideration at £nil.
From the date of acquisition, VT Flagship contributed a profit before tax of £15.7m (excluding the effect of intangible amortisation 
arising from business combinations) to the Group’s results. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the profit 
before tax (excluding the effects of intangible amortisation arising from business combinations) would have increased by £1.5m and 
revenue from continuing operations would have increased by £18.8m.
Acquisition of Estech Europe Limited
In June 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Estech Europe Limited for consideration of £1.8m (including 
costs) giving rise to provisional goodwill of £0.8m and intangible assets of £3.0m. Net liabilities acquired were £2.0m. Estech Europe 
Limited operates in the waste management sector. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 104
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
20 Business combinations and disposals (continued)
Acquisition of VT Nuclear Services Limited (during the year ended 31 March 2008)
On 18 January 2008 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital in British Nuclear Group Project Services Limited 
for a consideration of £45m satisfied wholly by cash. The business has subsequently been renamed VT Nuclear Services and 
provides consultancy services to the nuclear power industry, particularly for plant decommissioning.
Book and fair values of the net assets at the date of acquisition were as follows:
      Book Fair value Fair value 
      values adjustments to Group 
       (as restated) (as restated) 
      £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment      4.5 2.0 6.5
Intangible assets      - 17.9 17.9
Deferred tax assets      1.6 2.9 4.5
Inventories      0.9 - 0.9
Trade and other receivables      20.6 (1.1) 19.5
Cash and cash equivalents      7.5 - 7.5
Trade and other payables      (20.9) (2.2) (23.1)
Provisions      (2.6) (2.7) (5.3)
Deferred tax liabilities      - (5.6) (5.6)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities      11.6 11.2 22.8
Goodwill on acquisition (as restated)        24.8
        47.6
Discharged by:
Cash consideration (before adjustment, see below)       45.0
Costs associated with the acquisition        2.6
        47.6
The goodwill recognised on acquisition is principally attributable to the skills and technical talent of the acquired businesses’ 
workforce and those other assets not requiring valuation under IFRS 3.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008, VT Nuclear Services contributed an operating profit of £nil to the results of the Group, 
after incurring a restructuring charge following the acquisition of £1m. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, 
the profit before tax of the Group would have been increased by £4.8m and revenue from continuing operations would have been 
increased by £57.7m.
In addition, the Group negotiated a revised overall reduction in the purchase consideration of £6.4m during the year ended 
31 March 2009 which has resulted in a further adjustment to goodwill in that period.
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Group has reassessed the provisional fair values and purchase consideration in respect of the 
acquisition of VT Nuclear Services made in the prior financial year. As a result of this reassessment, goodwill arising from the 
transaction has been increased by £3.3m from that previously assessed. In addition, trade and other receivables decreased by 
£1.7m; current tax liabilities decreased by £1.2m; deferred tax assets increased by £1.3m; trade and other payables increased  
by £1.4m; and provisions increased by £2.7m. These adjustments are reflected in the table above. There was no effect on the 
reported profit for the prior year. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 105
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
20 Business combinations and disposals (continued)
Acquisition of VT Aepco Inc (during the year ended 31 March 2008)
On 31 December 2007 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the common stock in Aepco Engineering and Planning Corporation,  
a company incorporated in the USA, for an initial consideration of $68m satisfied wholly by cash. Aepco Systems Corporation  
(now VT Aepco Inc) provides support to the US Department of Defense in maintaining and updating its military helicopter fleet.
Book and fair values of the net assets at the date of acquisition were as follows:
      Book Fair value Fair value 
      values adjustments to Group 
      £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment      0.5 - 0.5
Intangible assets      - 11.6 11.6
Deferred tax assets      - 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables      6.4 (0.2) 6.2
Cash and cash equivalents      0.7 - 0.7
Trade and other payables      (4.8) (0.2) (5.0)
Deferred tax liabilities      (0.7) - (0.7)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities      2.1 11.3 13.4
Goodwill on acquisition         23.3
        36.7
Discharged by:
Cash consideration        34.1
Contingent consideration        1.8
Costs associated with the acquisition        0.8
        36.7
During the current financial year the performance criteria have exceeded the original expectations and as such an additional 
consideration of £0.9m has become payable which has been adjusted in that period.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition represents the value of those assets not requiring valuation under IFRS 3 and the synergies 
expected to be achieved from integrating the company into the Group’s existing business.
From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008, VT Aepco Inc contributed an operating profit of £0.9m to the results of the Group. 
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the profit before tax of the Group would have been increased by 
£0.3m and revenue from continuing operations would have increased by £27.6m. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 106
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
21 Other financial assets
Other financial assets – non-current
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Loan advanced to joint venture undertaking      5.3 0.1
Interest rate swaps       - 0.1
Reimbursement rights       0.5 0.2
       5.8 0.4
The reimbursement represents a life insurance policy held to fund the future liabilities arising in the US defined benefit pension 
scheme. Under the provisions of IAS 19 this policy is defined as a non-qualifying insurance policy and as such is not deemed to  
be an asset of the pension scheme. It is therefore deemed to be a corporate asset and is held at fair value on the balance sheet.
Other financial assets – current
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Forward currency contracts       1.7 1.9
Loan advanced to joint venture undertaking      0.5 -
Other loans receivable       - 0.2
       2.2 2.1
22 Inventories
       2009 2008 
        (as restated)* 
       £m £m
Raw materials and consumables       5.4 8.5
Work in progress       5.3 7.8
Finished goods and goods for resale       - 2.2
       10.7 18.5
*  Work in progress has been restated in the prior period to analyse more appropriately certain contract-related balances totalling £12.6m to within trade and other receivables.
23 Construction contracts
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Contracts accounted for under IAS 11 in progress at balance sheet date:
Amounts due from contract customers included as an asset     72.5 27.3
Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables    4.7 67.2
Aggregate costs incurred on contracts to date      120.9 590.2
Reported profit on contracts to date       15.6 62.1
24 Trade and other receivables
Non-current assets
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Other receivables and prepayments       0.7 4.1 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 107
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
24 Trade and other receivables (continued)
Current assets
       2009 2008 
        (as restated)* 
       £m £m
Trade receivables        117.5 108.7
Amounts recoverable on contracts       72.5 27.3
Amounts due from joint ventures and associates      3.0 1.4
Prepayments and other receivables       48.0 76.6
       241.0 214.0
*  See note 2 for details of the balance sheet restatement arising from reassessment of a prior year acquisition and note 22 in respect of reclassification of items from inventory.
Impairment of trade receivables
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Trade receivables        120.3 112.7
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (all relating to past due receivables)    (2.8) (4.0)
       117.5 108.7
Included in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are specific trade receivables and amounts owed by specific customers 
where recovery of the balance due is considered by management to be less than certain. Movements in the provision for impaired 
trade receivables during the year are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
At 1 April       4.0 3.1
Additional provision       0.8 1.2
Arising upon business combinations       0.2 0.6
Arising from business disposal       (1.1) -
Utilised       (1.1) (0.9)
At 31 March       2.8 4.0
The ageing analysis of trade receivables at the year end is as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Current (not yet due)       98.5 81.2
Overdue by 30 days       7.0 11.1
Overdue by 30–120 days       8.7 7.9
Overdue by more than 120 days       6.1 12.5
At 31 March       120.3 112.7
Currency analysis
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Sterling       169.2 155.6
US dollars       66.2 49.5
Euros       2.9 7.8
Other currencies       2.7 1.1
At 31 March       241.0 214.0 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 108
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
25 Assets held for sale
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
BVT Surface Fleet Limited       109.4 -
Put option of interest in shares of BVT Surface Fleet Limited     10.3 -
Vessels       - 0.8
       119.7 0.8
The interest in BVT Surface Fleet Limited is carried at historic cost. The put option is measured at fair value with movements from 
initial recognition being recorded in the income statement.
The fair value was calculated using a Black-Scholes model with the most significant inputs being the value of the underlying business 
which was calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis and the discount rate which was based upon the specific risks associated 
with the underlying business.
26 Cash and cash equivalents
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand       17.7 35.1
Short-term deposits       33.8 25.0
Cash and cash equivalents       51.5 60.1
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of 
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates.
Included in the above amounts are restricted funds of £3.8m (2008: £3.8m).
27 Trade and other payables
       2009 2008 
        (as restated)* 
       £m £m
Trade payables       74.0 131.9
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates      5.7 5.4
Other taxes and social security costs       15.8 13.6
Accrued expenses and deferred income      182.8 145.1
       278.3 296.0
* See note 2 for details of the balance sheet restatement arising from reassessment of a prior year acquisition. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 109
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
28 Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Non-current liabilities
Non-current instalments due on bank loans      148.8 164.2
Finance lease creditors       10.6 20.7
Other loans       1.8 1.8
       161.2 186.7
Current liabilities
Current portion of bank loans       1.3 1.1
Guaranteed loan notes       0.4 0.4
Deferred consideration in respect of VT Flagship      68.1 -
Current portion of finance lease creditors      10.2 9.8
Loans from joint ventures       2.5 7.3
       82.5 18.6
The bank overdrafts are secured by cross-guarantees between certain material subsidiary undertakings.
Other financial liabilities – current
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Foreign exchange contracts       0.8 0.5
Other financial liabilities – non-current
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Interest rate swap contracts       2.2 0.3
Foreign exchange contracts       1.3 1.0
       3.5 1.3
29 Obligations under leases
Operating leases
Group as lessee 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 March are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Within one year       73.4 58.9
After one year but not more than five years      112.8 159.3
More than five years       7.6 28.9
       193.8 247.1
The Group leases a number of commercial properties under operating leases. The leases run for terms of between one and 21 years. 
Lease payments are reviewed at regular intervals to reflect market rentals. None of these leases includes contingent rentals.
The Group has also entered into commercial leases on certain motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have an average 
life of between one and 11 years with renewal terms included in the contracts. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by 
entering into these leases. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 110
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
29 Obligations under leases (continued)
Group as lessor 
The Group leases out certain items of plant and equipment under operating leases. The future minimum rentals receivable under  
non-cancellable leases at 31 March are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Within one year       63.2 73.3
After one year but not more than five years      92.1 195.9
More than five years       0.7 17.1
       156.0 286.3
Finance leases 
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows:
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Within one year       11.1 11.1
After one year but not more than five years      11.1 22.3
       22.2 33.4
Less finance charges allocated to future periods      (1.4) (2.9)
       20.8 30.5
30 Provisions
     Contract and Industrial Reorganisation 
    Contingent warranty injury and 
    consideration provisions provision redundancy Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007    - 13.1 9.5 2.5 25.1
Created during the year    1.8 3.9 - 1.3 7.0
Arising on business acquisitions    - 0.5 - 2.1 2.6
Utilised    - (2.8) (0.8) (1.2) (4.8)
Unused amounts reversed    - (3.4) - (1.0) (4.4)
At 31 March 2008    1.8 11.3 8.7 3.7 25.5
Fair value adjustments to prior year acquisition (note 17)  - 2.7 - - 2.7
At 31 March 2008 (as restated)    1.8 14.0 8.7 3.7 28.2
Created during the year    0.9 5.3 8.0 22.5 36.7
Arising on business acquisitions    0.6 7.3 - - 7.9
Disposals    - (1.3) - - (1.3)
Utilised    - (6.5) (1.3) (2.9) (10.7)
Unused amounts reversed    - (0.7) - - (0.7)
Unwinding of discount    - - 0.7 - 0.7
Foreign exchange differences    0.8 0.8 - - 1.6
At 31 March 2009    4.1 18.9 16.1 23.3 62.4
Analysed as:
31 March 2009    
Current    3.5 5.7 1.3 21.2 31.7
Non-current    0.6 13.2 14.8 2.1 30.7
31 March 2008    
Current    1.8 4.9 1.1 1.8 9.6
Non-current    - 9.1 7.6 1.9 18.6 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 111
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
30 Provisions (continued)
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration will be payable in respect of the acquisition of VT Aepco Inc, made during the previous financial year.
In addition, amounts are payable to former owners of Estech Europe Limited which are contingent on successful contract awards. 
The provision of £0.6m represents management’s best estimate of the consideration that may become payable in this respect.
Contract and warranty provisions
Provisions are made when contracts are put to sales to cover expected warranty claims. Provisions are based on an assessment  
of future claims with reference to past experience. Such costs are generally incurred within one to five years post delivery.
Reorganisation and redundancy
Provisions are made to cover costs to be incurred in respect of committed programmes and other liabilities arising from such 
reorganisations. Such liabilities are generally incurred within one year of the balance sheet date, however, certain employee 
termination costs may lead to commitments for payments to be made after more than one year from the balance sheet date.
Industrial injury provision
The industrial injury provision relates to potential historic liabilities, primarily in relation to asbestosis, following a previous Group 
insurance carrier entering a Scheme of Arrangement and has been calculated using professional actuarial advice. The amounts 
classified as falling due within one year are the Group’s expectation of cash flow based upon claims history.
31 Capital management and financial risks
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework, including 
relevant policies and procedures, including a Group finance manual and a Group treasury manual. The Group’s Audit Committee 
oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the 
adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Committee is assisted in its oversight 
role by internal audit which reports results of its findings to the Committee.
Additional disclosure is included in the ‘Key risks and uncertainties’ section of this annual report and capital management disclosures 
are provided in the Financial review.
The Group’s treasury policies, which have been approved by the Board, set out the basis and framework under which the Group 
manages financial risk. The policies cover all significant areas of treasury activity including capital management, liquidity risk, 
counterparty and credit risk and market risk (including interest rate and foreign currency risk).
Overview of financial risks
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the following risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included 
throughout the consolidated financial statements.
Capital management
The Group manages capital to ensure that it has available resources and access to markets to ensure the continued growth of the 
Group and to meet short-term borrowing requirements. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability 
to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain 
an appropriate capital structure that complies with loan covenants and other measures. Access to capital takes many forms and 
includes, but is not limited to, equity markets, debt capital markets and bank markets.
The Group monitors capital, on a short and medium term basis with short-term being one year or less and medium-term being up to 
five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios generally used by industry and by the rating agencies. This includes monitoring 
gearing ratios, interest cover and cash conversion ratios. The Group’s capital structure is managed against the various financial ratios 
as required to ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to support the business, whilst also maintaining a comfortable level of 
headroom under its facilities and remaining within its financial covenants.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 
to shareholders, issue new shares, repurchase shares, issue debt or repay debt. During 2009, the Group maintained sufficient debt 
facilities which ensured its objectives were met. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 112
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
31 Capital management and financial risks (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations including applying cash collection targets 
to all business divisions. Investment of surplus funds is carefully controlled with defined policies in place over institutions within 
which investments can be placed. Authorisation procedures for investment are in place across the Group including Board approval 
where appropriate.
In its funding strategy, the Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of 
overdrafts, bank loans, loan notes and finance leases. To meet this objective, the Group’s policy is to ensure that adequate unutilised 
committed funding facilities are available to cover authorised capital expenditure commitments, debt due for repayment within one 
year and an appropriate level of headroom.
Surplus cash is invested only in financial institutions with high credit ratings and in financial instruments exposed to insignificant risk 
of changes in market value, with not less than 50 per cent of surplus funds available invested with maturities of three months or less. 
Funds may not be invested for periods of greater than one year.
The table below analyses the maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities.
      More than  Carrying  
   Within 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years Discount value 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
31 March 2009
Bank loans   2.8 2.8 138.8 16.6 (10.9) 150.1
Hire purchase and finance leases   11.1 11.1 - - (1.4) 20.8
Loan notes/other loans   0.5 0.1 0.1 3.2 (1.7) 2.2
Deferred consideration*   69.1 - - - (1.0) 68.1
Amounts due to joint ventures   2.5 - - - - 2.5
Trade and other payables    227.4 - - - - 227.4
   313.4 14.0 138.9 19.8 (15.0) 471.1
31 March 2008
Bank loans   3.3 3.4 154.4 18.7 (14.6) 165.2
Hire purchase and finance leases   11.2 11.1 11.1 - (2.9) 30.5
Loan notes   0.1 0.1 0.5 3.3 (1.8) 2.2
Amounts due to joint ventures   7.3 - - - - 7.3
Trade and other payables   205.8 - - - - 205.8
   227.7 14.6 166.0 22.0 (19.3) 411.0
*  The deferred consideration is payable on the earlier of the exercise of the BVT put option or 1 July 2011. The proceeds arising from the sale of the Group’s interest in BVT 
will fund the payment of deferred consideration.
Uncommitted borrowing facilities 
At 31 March 2009 the Group had available £175m (2008: £160m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met. £80m of these facilities fall for review in March 2011 and the remainder is available until 
November 2011.
Credit risk
The risk of financial loss due to a counter-party’s failure to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to transactions where 
the Group provides goods and services on deferred terms, enters into derivative contracts requiring settlement by the other party or 
invests or deposits surplus cash.
Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses and require that deferred terms are granted only to customers who demonstrate 
an appropriate payment history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures. Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject 
to credit limits to ensure that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Group policies also restrict the counterparties with which derivative transactions can be contracted and funds may be invested 
to those approved by the treasury team and approved by the Board, comprising banks and financial institutions with a high credit 
rating. The treasury team ensures that there is no undue concentration risk and that exposure is spread across a number of approved 
financial institutions. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 113
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
31 Capital management and financial risks (continued)
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables. Credit risk in respect of 
concentrations of trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base being typically government with long-term trading 
relationships. The Group also has in place procedures that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales 
are made. Existing customer accounts are also monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate action is taken where necessary to 
minimise any credit risk. Further information regarding the Group’s credit risk exposure in relation to trade and other receivables is 
detailed in note 24.
The Group has not pledged any assets in respect of any of its primary borrowing facilities or other financial liabilities, except as 
disclosed in note 15.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency rates, will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters.
The Group buys or sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business in order to manage market risks. All such transactions are 
carried out within the guidelines set out in the Group treasury manual. The Group seeks to apply hedge accounting to manage 
volatility in profit or loss.
Interest rate risk 
Group policy is to manage the cost of borrowing using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. Whilst fixed rate interest-bearing debt is 
not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets 
where rates are falling. In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned 
costs should debt be restructured or repaid early. In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, 
the Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
The Group has no absolute policy towards either fixed-rate finance or floating-rate finance. The proportions of interest-rate exposure 
that should be fixed and the proportion that should be floating will be dictated by the nature and terms of the underlying asset(s) and 
contract(s) being funded. The exact proportion will be determined by current economic conditions, the currency in which the debt is 
denominated and the purposes and duration of the debt.
The Group uses various long and short-term borrowings, principally in US dollars and UK sterling generally at floating rates of interest. 
Group policy is to assess borrowings with regard to fixed or variable rates of interest depending on prevailing market conditions and 
to acquire interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to generate the desired interest profile, agreeing to exchange, at 
specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon 
notional principal. At the year end, 37 per cent (2008: 11 per cent) of the Group’s borrowings was at fixed rates (including deferred 
consideration in respect of the VT Flagship acquisition), after taking account of interest rate swaps.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s net debt at 31 March was as follows:
31 March 2009
 Effective Within     More than 
 interest rate 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years Total 
 % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank loans:
Non-recourse – £ 6.2 (1.4) (1.4) (1.4) (1.6) (1.8) (12.6) (20.2)
Other loans 6.3 (68.1) - - - - (1.8) (69.9)
  (69.5) (1.4) (1.4) (1.6) (1.8) (14.4) (90.1)
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents  51.5 - - - - - 51.5
Loan to joint venture 12.0 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.8 3.0 5.8
Loan notes 3.1 (0.4) - - - - - (0.4)
Finance leases 2.3 (10.2) (10.6) - - - - (20.8)
Revolving credit facility – £ 2.4 - - (57.5) - - - (57.5)
Revolving credit facility – US $ 1.0 - - (72.4) - - - (72.4)
Loan from joint venture 0.0 (2.5) - - - - - (2.5)
  38.9 (10.1) (129.4) 0.5 0.8 3.0 (96.3) VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 114
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
31 Capital management and financial risks (continued)
31 March 2008
 Effective Within     More than 
 interest rate 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years Total 
 % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Bank loans:
Non-recourse – £ 6.2 (1.1) (1.1) (1.2) (1.2) (1.3) (14.1) (20.0)
Recourse – US $ 6.0 (0.1) - - - - - (0.1)
Other loans 6.5 - - - - - (1.8) (1.8)
  (1.2) (1.1) (1.2) (1.2) (1.3) (15.9) (21.9)
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents  60.1 - - - - - 60.1
Loan to associate 12.0 0.1 - - - - - 0.1
Other loans receivable 6.0 0.2 - - - - - 0.2
Loan notes 5.1 (0.4) - - - - - (0.4)
Finance leases 5.6 (9.7) (10.4) (10.4) - - - (30.5)
Revolving credit facility – £ 6.1 - - - (88.6) - - (88.6)
Revolving credit facility – US $ 3.0 - - - (56.6) - - (56.6)
Loan from joint venture 5.6 (7.3) - - - - - (7.3)
  43.0 (10.4) (10.4) (145.2) - - (123.0)
A change of 100 basis points in short-term rates applied to the average fixed/floating mix and level of borrowings would vary the 
interest cost to the Group by £2.0m (2008: £1.8m).
Foreign currency risk 
The Group has invested in operations outside the UK and also buys and sells goods and services denominated in currencies other 
than sterling. As a result the value of the Group’s non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows 
can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates, particularly in the US dollar and Euro.
Group policy is to finance, so far as practicable, the costs of acquisition and new business opportunities by matching borrowings in 
the local currency in order to eliminate foreign exchange transaction exposure, provided that the benefits are not outweighed by the 
overall cost of the borrowing.
The Group’s transactional currency exposure arises from sales or purchases by certain operating units in currencies other than its 
functional currency. It is the Group’s policy not to enter into forward contracts for purchases until there is a high degree of certainty. 
In addition, the Group’s treasury policy is to hedge if and when a significant exposure is recognised, through the use of foreign 
currency instruments, to manage the currency exposures on transactions for which revenue or payment is anticipated.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows:
  2009  2008
   US$m 7m OMRm US$m 5m OMRm
Monetary assets   88.3 6.9 2.8 64.7 11.4 2.5
Monetary liabilities   (161.3) (1.1) (0.1) (51.0) (1.2) (0.1)
Gross balance sheet exposure   (73.0) 5.8 2.7 13.7 10.2 2.4
The major currency in which the Group trades in overseas operations is the US dollar. A 10 per cent movement in the US dollar:sterling 
exchange rate from the year average rate of 1.70192 (2008: 2.0133) would have changed the reported Group profit after taxation by 
£0.3m (2008: £0.2m).
Other market price risk 
The Group enters into certain commodity contracts, all of which are in order to fix the price of certain commodities such as electricity 
and oil on a long-term basis in order to ensure certainty of cash flow in those contracts. These contracts meet the ‘own use’ exemption 
within IAS 39 and therefore the fair value is not required to be accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
   VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 115
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
32 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net 
investments in foreign operations. The Group currently only holds instruments designated as cash flow hedges. The Group’s 
accounting policies detail the approach to the adoption of hedge accounting.
The notional or contracted amounts of derivative financial instruments are shown below, analysed between foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate contracts, classified by year of maturity.
Foreign exchange contracts
  2009  2008
   Within    Within   
   1 year 1-5 years Total 1 year 1-5 years Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net forward (sales)/purchases
Euro   0.9 (4.1) (3.2) 21.7 (5.8) 15.9
US dollar   1.6 - 1.6 - - -
Norwegian krona   2.0 0.1 2.1 - - -
Singapore dollar   2.2 - 2.2 0.2 - 0.2
Other   2.7 - 2.7 0.1 - 0.1
   9.4 (4.0) 5.4 22.0 (5.8) 16.2
Interest rate contracts
  2009  2008
   Within  More than  Within  More than 
   1 year 5 years Total 1 year 5 years Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling   - 22.5 22.5 - 20.6 20.6
Balance sheet analysis
   Cash flow hedges
       Non-hedge  
       accounted  
     Interest Foreign foreign  
     rate exchange exchange  
     swaps contracts contracts Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial instruments – non-current assets    - - - -
Derivative financial instruments – current assets    - 1.6 0.1 1.7
Derivative financial instruments – current liabilities    - (0.8) - (0.8)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current liabilities   (2.2) (1.3) - (3.5)
Net fair value at 31 March 2009     (2.2) (0.5) 0.1 (2.6)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current assets    0.1 - - 0.1
Derivative financial instruments – current assets    - 0.2 1.7 1.9
Derivative financial instruments – current liabilities    - (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current liabilities   (0.3) (1.0) - (1.3)
Net fair value at 31 March 2008     (0.2) (1.2) 1.6 0.2 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 116
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
33 Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities can be categorised as follows:
    Fair value  Derivatives Total  
   Loans and  through Amortised used for carrying  
   receivables profit or loss cost hedging amount Fair value 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents   51.5 - - - 51.5 51.5
Loan to joint venture   5.8 - - - 5.8 5.8
Other investments   - 0.5 - - 0.5 0.5
Trade receivables   117.5 - - - 117.5 117.5
Other receivables   87.1 - - - 87.1 87.1
Assets held for sale   - 10.3 - - 10.3 10.3
Derivative contracts (not hedge-accounted)  - 0.1 - - 0.1 0.1
Financial liabilities
Trade payables   - - (74.0) - (74.0) (74.0)
Other liabilities   - - (153.4) - (153.4) (153.4)
Borrowings   - - (243.7) - (243.7) (243.7)
Hedging instruments
Assets   - - - 1.6 1.6 1.6
Liabilities   - - - (4.3) (4.3) (4.3)
At 31 March 2009   261.9 10.9 (471.1) (2.7) (201.0) (201.0)
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents   60.1 - - - 60.1 60.1
Loan to joint venture   0.1 - - - 0.1 0.1
Other loans   0.2 - - - 0.2 0.2
Other investments   - 0.2 - - 0.2 0.2
Trade receivables   108.7 - - - 108.7 108.7
Other receivables   52.6 - - - 52.6 52.6
Derivative contracts (not hedge-accounted)  - 1.7 - - 1.7 1.7
Financial liabilities
Trade payables   - - (131.9) - (131.9) (131.9)
Other liabilities   - - (73.9) - (73.9) (73.9)
Borrowings   - - (205.3) - (205.3) (205.3)
Derivative contracts (not hedge-accounted)  - (0.1) - - (0.1) (0.1)
Hedging instruments
Assets   - - - 0.3 0.3 0.3
Liabilities   - - - (1.7) (1.7) (1.7)
At 31 March 2008   221.7 1.8 (411.1) (1.4) (189.0) (189.0) VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 117
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
34 Share capital
Authorised
       2009 2008
Ordinary shares of 5p each       200,000,000 200,000,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
    Ordinary shares of 5p each
       2009 2008
In thousands of shares
In issue at 1 April       177,739 175,489
Issued for cash       1,005 2,250
In issue at 31 March       178,744 177,739
During the year 802,997 (2008: 2,013,321) ordinary shares were issued for a cash consideration of £2.0m (2008: £5.3m) under the 
Company’s share option schemes. In addition 202,394 (2008: 236,679) shares were issued to the employee trust to satisfy future 
pending awards under the Company’s share schemes.
35 Share-based payments
Employee and management share participation plans exist as follows. All plans are equity-settled except for an element of the 
Deferred annual bonus scheme. New awards are no longer made under the long-term incentive or share option plans.
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP was established as an incentive scheme for executive Directors and certain other senior executives. Under the terms of the 
scheme, employees were awarded shares equal in value up to 50 per cent of basic salary. The grant of awards was at the discretion of 
the Remuneration Committee. The shares are held in trust and released after three years pro rata to achievement of the performance 
target. The performance criterion is the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of the comparator Group which currently comprises the 
members of the FTSE 250 (but excluding investment trusts). Shares vest fully if the Group’s performance equals the upper quartile of 
the comparator Group but there is no vesting if performance is below the median.
Deferred annual bonus scheme (DABS)
The Group operates a DABS for senior executives. Under the provisions of the scheme members are required to defer 40 per cent of 
their annual bonus which is used to acquire shares to that value. In addition, employees have the option to defer a further portion of 
annual bonus to acquire additional shares, up to a maximum of 35 per cent of annual bonus.
The deferred shares are held in trust for a period of three years. At the end of the three-year period employees will receive these shares 
together with a matching element from the Company. The quantum of the matching element depends on the achievement of earnings per 
share growth targets. The maximum matching element obtainable is three times the deferred shares originally held for an employee.
Share option plans
The Group operates two share option plans under which Directors and other executives were eligible to participate at the discretion  
of the Remuneration Committee. Options were granted at market value, determined immediately before the grant.
Share options vest in equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of the grant subject to achievement of the 
performance condition. The performance condition applied was a real growth in earnings per share of at least 2 per cent per annum 
over three consecutive years. These share options have a maximum life of 10 years.
Share incentive plan (SIP)
The Group operates a SIP open to all employees. Under the SIP employees are granted share options subject to the Group meeting 
certain profit targets. Options are granted at the market value on the date of the award and vest unconditionally if the employee 
remains in service for a period of three-years from the date of the award. The contractual life of the options is five years and there are 
no cash settlement alternatives.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
During the year the Group launched the PSP. Under this scheme certain employees are granted nil cost options which vest after a 
three-year performance period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and continued employment. Awards are subject 
to two performance conditions being either the Group’s earnings per share growth or the relative TSR.
  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 118
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
35 Share-based payments (continued)
Employee Share Option Savings Plans (ESOPs)
The Group operates ESOPs for all eligible employees, whereby employees can save towards the exercise price payable for an award 
of share options. The exercise price of these options is set at 90 per cent of the market value of the share price at the date of grant. 
Under awards granted by the Group, the savings period is either three or five years for UK-based employees and two years for 
US-based employees. At the end of the savings period, the options vest and the option holders have a six-month window in which  
to exercise their options.
The following tables set out share-option activity under these plans illustrating the number and weighted average exercise prices 
(WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year.
LTIP
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     482,469 3.91 762,293 3.47
Forfeited during the year     (13,811) 4.84 (13,303) 3.34
Exercised     (298,488) 3.34 (225,384) 2.67
Expired during the year     - - (41,137) 2.67
Outstanding at 31 March     170,170 4.84 482,469 3.91
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £6.19 (2008: £6.17). All remaining awards fall 
due for release in July 2009.
For the options outstanding at 31 March 2009, the weighted average remaining contractual life was 0.3 years (2008: 0.7 years).
The exercise price for options outstanding at the year end was £4.84 (2008: £3.34–£4.84).
DABS
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     452,358 - 226,386 -
Granted during the year     229,023 - 225,972 -
Outstanding at 31 March     681,381 - 452,358 -
For awards outstanding at 31 March 2009 the weighted average remaining contractual life was 1.5 years (2008: 1.7 years).
Share option schemes
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     3,100,944 3.07 4,077,236 3.00
Forfeited during the year     (96,420) 4.07 (97,523) 3.85
Exercised     (401,471) 2.53 (854,369) 2.68
Expired during the year     (76,740) 1.81 (24,400) 1.71
Outstanding at 31 March     2,526,313 3.16 3,100,944 3.07
Included within the outstanding options are 831,260 (2008: 1,575,291) shares that have not been recognised in accordance with 
transitional provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently 
modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £6.13 (2008: £5.98).
For options outstanding at 31 March 2009 the weighted average remaining contractual life was 4.7 years (2008: 5.4 years).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end was £2.01–£4.89 (2008: £1.72–£4.89). At 31 March 2009 
1,254,465 options were exercisable (2008: 1,252,162). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 119
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
35 Share-based payments (continued)
SIP
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     306,767 - 155,378 -
Granted during the year     286,816 - 173,963 -
Forfeited during the year     (41,630) - (15,061) -
Exercised     (165,773) - (7,513) -
Outstanding at 31 March     386,180 - 306,767 -
The SIP was introduced with effect from 1 June 2005. Under the rules of the plan, employees receive shares dependent upon 
the Group achieving certain profit targets. The first awards were made under this scheme during the year ended 31 March 2007. 
The shares will be held in trust for a minimum of three years before vesting unconditionally with employees. Shares may vest at earlier 
dates only in certain limited circumstances, such as early retirement or redundancy. For awards outstanding at 31 March 2009 the 
weighted average contracted life was 1.6 years (2008: 1.7 years).
ESOP
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     2,058,611 3.27 3,192,807 3.06
Forfeited during the year     (68,718) 3.69 (162,966) 3.14
Exercised     (507,440) 2.40 (939,685) 2.60
Expired during the year     (30,519) 3.38 (31,545) 2.58
Outstanding at 31 March     1,451,934 3.55 2,058,611 3.27
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £5.54 (2008: £6.03).
For the options outstanding at 31 March 2009 the weighted average remaining contractual life was 1.5 years (2008: 2.4 years).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £nil (2008: £nil). The range of exercise prices for options 
outstanding at the year end was £2.20–£4.10 (2008: £2.20–£4.10). The number of options exercisable at 31 March 2009 was 
79,879 (2008: 30,545).
PSP
     2009 2009 2008 2008 
     No WAEP No WAEP 
      £  £
Outstanding at 1 April     543,629 - - -
Granted during the year     673,617 - 546,269 -
Forfeited during the year     (46,326) - (2,640) -
Outstanding at 31 March     1,170,920 - 543,629 -
For awards outstanding at 31 March 2009 the weighted average remaining contracted life was 1.9 years (2008: 2.4 years). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 120
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
35 Share-based payments (continued)
Share option valuation assumptions
The fair value of options granted were measured using the Black-Scholes method for the share option plans and ESOPs, the Monte-Carlo 
method for the grants under the LTIP and PSP scheme, and a simplified Black-Scholes method for the matching shares granted within the 
LTIP. The weighted average assumptions used in determining fair value of options granted in the year were as follows:
    PSP
       2009 2008
Expected volatility       24.0% 21.1%
Risk-free interest rate       4.6% 5.2%
Expected life       3 years 3 years
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options). 
The expected life of the options is the Group’s best estimate of exercise patterns based on current available data.
The LTIP includes a market vesting condition linked to the TSR of a comparator group which requires the volatility of comparator 
companies’ share prices and the average correlation between the share prices of the Company and the comparator companies to  
be considered in assessing the fair value of options granted. The following approach has been adopted for these items:
  Comparator company volatility – annualised, daily historic volatility assessed over a period prior to the date of grant that 
corresponds to the period over which the TSR is being projected
 Company correlation – taken as the average correlation of TSR between all of the companies over the same historic period
In respect of the DABS and SIP schemes, awards are measured by reference to the fair value of the Company’s shares at the date of 
grant, which is considered to be the market price, with a discount if appropriate to reflect that the awards do not carry dividend rights.
Compensation expense
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
LTIP       0.2 0.4
DABS       2.5 2.7
Share option plans       0.2 0.4
PSP       1.8 0.4
SIP       1.3 0.7
ESOP       0.4 0.4
       6.4 5.0
The portion of the above expense arising from equity settled share-based payment transactions is £5.3m (2008: £4.1m). The carrying 
amount of the liability relating to cash settled options (arising from the DABS scheme) at 31 March 2009 was £1.1m (2008: £1.4m). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 121
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
36 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
  Issued share Share Hedging Translation Revaluation Retained 
  capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2007  8.8 34.0 - (2.4) - 159.3 199.7
Total recognised income and expense - - (1.0) 0.4 - 75.0 74.4
Share option exercised by employees 0.1 5.2 - - - - 5.3
Purchase of treasury shares  - 1.4 - - - (3.4) (2.0)
Equity-settled share-based transactions - - - - - 4.1 4.1
Dividends to shareholders  - - - - - (21.4) (21.4)
Balance at 31 March 2008  8.9 40.6 (1.0) (2.0) - 213.6 260.1
Total recognised income and expense - - (1.0) 10.7 35.1 43.8 88.6
Charge to profit and loss arising upon  
sale of businesses  - - - 0.3 - - 0.3
Share option exercised by employees - 2.0 - - - - 2.0
Purchase/Issue of treasury shares  - 1.3 - - - (5.2) (3.9)
Transfers  - - - - (2.9) 2.9 -
Equity-settled share-based transactions - - - - - 5.3 5.3
Dividends to shareholders  - - - - - (24.0) (24.0)
Balance at 31 March 2009  8.9 43.9 (2.0) 9.0 32.2 236.4 328.4
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of Group-held cash flow hedging 
instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations.
Treasury shares
Own shares held are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. At 31 March 2009, the Group held 913,722 (2008: 443,326)  
of the Company’s shares which were reserved for issue under incentive plans.
Revaluation reserve
The revaluation reserve arises from the acquisition of VT Flagship and relates to the revaluation of intangible assets recognised on 
acquisition which relate to the Group’s previously held 50 per cent interest as detailed in note 20.
Minority interest
        £m
Balance at 1 April 2007        2.6
Total recognised income and expense       2.1
Dividends paid        (2.0)
Balance at 31 March 2008        2.7
Total recognised income and expense       0.2
Dividends paid        (0.6)
Balance at 31 March 2009        2.3 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 122
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
37 Additional cash flow information
Cash flow from operating activities
  Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Adjustments to reconcile profit after tax to  
net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit after tax   25.1 37.1 83.5 20.9 108.6 58.0
Income tax expense   7.1 8.4 (0.1) 4.9 7.0 13.3
Financial income   (14.3) (9.0) (0.2) (3.5) (14.5) (12.5)
Financial expense   21.1 13.0 2.4 3.0 23.5 16.0
Fair value movement in BVT put option  - - (4.1) - (4.1) -
Share of post-tax earnings of equity  
accounted investments   (7.5) (11.8) 17.9 (6.3) 10.4 (18.1)
Unrealised operating profit arising from 
contracts with joint ventures   0.3 - - - 0.3 -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  15.6 12.3 1.8 4.8 17.4 17.1
Depreciation of investment property   - 0.1 - - - 0.1
Impairment of assets held for resale   - 0.3 - - - 0.3
Amortisation of intangible assets   24.3 10.5 0.1 0.4 24.4 10.9
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment  (4.8) 0.7 - - (4.8) 0.7
Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings  - - 4.3 - 4.3 -
Accounting result on transfer of shipbuilding business - - (100.8) - (100.8) -
Foreign currency differences   2.2 (2.4) - - 2.2 (2.4)
Dividends received from equity accounted investments 3.0 13.6 - - 3.0 13.6
Changes in fair value of financial instruments  - (0.1) - - - (0.1)
Equity settled share-based payment expenses  4.6 3.6 0.7 0.5 5.3 4.1
Difference between pension contributions paid and  
amounts recognised in the income statement  (6.9) 0.6 - - (6.9) 0.6
Decrease/(increase) in inventories   10.8 (4.3) (0.8) 2.5 10.0 (1.8)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables  (20.1) (15.6) (39.4) 3.3 (59.5) (12.3)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  
and provisions   37.4 7.3 1.3 (29.1) 38.7 (21.8)
Cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities  97.9 64.3 (33.4) 1.4 64.5 65.7 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 123
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
37 Additional cash flow information (continued)
Analysis of net debt as defined by the Group
   1 April Acquisitions  Exchange Non-cash 31 March 
   2008 /disposals Cash flow differences movements 2009 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents   60.1 - (16.2) 7.6 - 51.5
Loans receivable   0.3 7.2 (1.7) - - 5.8
Interest bearing loans – non current   (186.7) (0.1) 37.2 (21.9) 10.3 (161.2)
Interest bearing loans – current   (18.6) (59.2) 8.7 - (13.4) (82.5)
   (144.9) (52.1) 28.0 (14.3) (3.1) (186.4)
Analysed as:
Recourse net debt   (124.9)     (166.2)
Non-recourse net debt   (20.0)     (20.2)
   (144.9)     (186.4)
The non-cash movement represents interest accrued in respect of the deferred consideration arising on the acquisition of VT Flagship.
   1 April Arising on  Exchange Non-cash 31 March 
   2007 acquisition Cash flow differences Movements 2008 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents   75.2  - (15.5) 0.4 - 60.1
Loans receivable   - - 0.3 - - 0.3
Interest bearing loans – non current   (106.9) - (91.0) 0.3 10.9 (186.7)
Interest bearing loans – current   (39.7) - 32.0 - (10.9) (18.6)
   (71.4) - (74.2) 0.7 - (144.9)
Analysed as:
Recourse net debt   (50.4)     (124.9)
Non-recourse net debt   (21.0)     (20.0)
   (71.4)     (144.9)
38 Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events requiring disclosure within the financial statements.
39 Capital commitments
At 31 March 2009 amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and 
equipment amounted to £9.6m (2008 £6.5m).
40 Contingent liabilities
At 31 March 2009, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees 
and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group and joint venture 
undertakings. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within 
the Group consolidated financial statements or within those of the relevant subsidiary.
Details regarding BVT Surface Fleet are set out in note 5.
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no contingent 
liability exists at the year end.
The Company and a number of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the 
ordinary course of business. The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either 
individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 124
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
41 Retirement benefits
The Group participates in six defined benefit pension schemes: the Shipbuilding Industries Scheme (SIPS); four education related 
schemes – Citrus (formerly LAWDC), the Guidance Enterprise Group Scheme, the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) and 
the Nuclear industry scheme (ESPS); and a US scheme. The UK schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to separately 
administered funds.
The US scheme is an unfunded scheme. The Group holds a life assurance policy which is to be used to fund retirement benefits 
arising. Under IAS 19 this insurance policy is deemed to be a non-qualifying insurance policy and as such is not an asset of the 
pension scheme. The asset is instead a corporate-owned asset and is included within the balance sheet (note 21).
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations using 
the projected unit credit method. Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall 
expected rates of return are established by applying published forecasts to each category of scheme assets.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 March were:
Year ended 31 March 2009
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Scheme assets at fair value
Equities     180.6 - 26.4 207.0
Bonds     38.9 - 7.2 46.1
Other     9.2 - 3.2 12.4
Fair value of scheme assets     228.7 - 36.8 265.5
Present value of scheme obligations     (278.7) (0.3) (47.0) (326.0)
Net pension liability     (50.0) (0.3) (10.2) (60.5)
Year ended 31 March 2008
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Scheme assets at fair value
Equities     251.7 - 37.7 289.4
Bonds     32.7 - 8.4 41.1
Other     11.7 - 4.5 16.2
Fair value of scheme assets     296.1 - 50.6 346.7
Present value of scheme obligations     (305.5) (0.2) (50.7) (356.4)
Net pension liability     (9.4) (0.2) (0.1) (9.7)
The pension plans have not directly invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments or in properties or other assets used by 
the Group. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 125
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
41 Retirement benefits (continued)
The amounts recognised in the Group income statement and in the Group statement of recognised income and expense for the year 
are analysed as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2009
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Recognised in income statement
Current service cost     (14.1) (0.1) (2.5) (16.7)
Past service cost     - - (0.3) (0.3)
Recognised in arriving at operating profit    (14.1) (0.1) (2.8) (17.0)
Expected return on scheme assets     20.5 - 5.5 26.0
Interest cost on scheme liabilities     (18.4) - (4.6) (23.0)
Recognised within financing income     2.1 - 0.9 3.0
Taken to the statement of recognised income and expense
Actual return on scheme assets     (36.3) - (16.5) (52.8)
Expected return on scheme assets     (20.5) - (5.5) (26.0)
     (56.8) - (22.0) (78.8)
Other actuarial gains and losses     (5.6) - 10.1 4.5
Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense  (62.4) - (11.9) (74.3)
Year ended 31 March 2008
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Recognised in income statement (as restated)
Current service cost     (15.3) (0.1) (2.8) (18.2)
Curtailment and settlements     - - 0.3 0.3
Recognised in arriving at operating profit    (15.3) (0.1) (2.5) (17.9)
Expected return on scheme assets     23.6 - 3.9 27.5
Interest cost on scheme liabilities     (18.1) - (3.0) (21.1)
Recognised within financing income     5.5 - 0.9 6.4
Taken to the statement of recognised income and expense
Actual return on scheme assets     (16.4) - (1.9) (18.3)
Expected return on scheme assets     (23.6) - (3.9) (27.5)
     (40.0) - (5.8) (45.8)
Other actuarial gains and losses     58.6 - 9.3 67.9
Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense  18.6 - 3.5 22.1
The principal assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligations for the Group’s plans are:
  SIPS Citrus(LAWDC) LGPS
   2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
Discount rate   6.7% 6.7% 6.7% 6.7% 6.7% 6.7%
Expected rate of return on assets:
Equities   7.7% 8.0% 7.7% 8.0% 7.7% 8.0%
Corporate bonds   6.7% 6.9% 6.7% 6.9% 6.7% 6.9%
Government bonds   4.2% 4.5% 4.2% 4.5% 4.2% 4.5%
Future salary increases   4.1% 4.6% 3.0% 3.5% 4.1% 5.0%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment  3.1% 3.4% 3.1% 3.4% 3.2% 3.5%
Inflation rate   3.2% 3.5% 3.2% 3.5% 3.2% 3.5% VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 126
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
41 Retirement benefits (continued)
   Guidance US
     2009 2008 2009 2008
Discount rate     6.7% 6.7% 7.25% 6.75%
Expected rate of return on assets:
Equities     7.7% 8.0% - -
Corporate bonds     6.7% 6.9% - -
Government bonds     4.2% 4.5% - -
Future salary increases     4.1% 4.6% 4.0% 4.0%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment    3.1% 3.4% - -
Inflation rate     3.2% 3.5% 2.8% 2.7%
Assumptions for pensioner longevity are based on actuarial tables relevant to the specific schemes. For the main SIPS scheme the 
actuarial table used is PA 92, which allows for expected increases in longevity. The table has been adjusted for deferred members and 
pensioners to reflect actual scheme experience. In addition the mortality assumption includes a short cohort effect (2008: short cohort 
effect) reflecting improved longevity of members born between 1925 and 1945. The inclusion of this cohort effect strengthens the 
mortality assumption within the actuarial calculation. The mortality assumption reflects the assumption adopted in the latest actuarial 
funding valuation of the scheme undertaken at 31 March 2007.
The mortality assumption adopted predicts that a current 65 year old male (2008: 65 year old) would have a life expectancy to age 85 
(2008: 85) and a female would have a life expectancy to age 87 (2008: 87). The effect of increasing this assumed life expectancy by 
one year is predicted to increase the deficit in the schemes by approximately £9m (2008: £9m).
The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate were to change by 0.1 per cent 
then it is predicted that the deficit in the scheme would change by £9m (2008: £7m).
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007     338.8 0.1 55.4 394.3
Current service cost     15.3 0.1 2.8 18.2
Curtailments and credits     - - (0.3) (0.3)
Interest cost     18.1 - 3.0 21.1
Benefits paid     (9.2) - (1.4) (10.6)
Contributions paid by employees     1.1 - 0.5 1.6
Actuarial gains and losses     (58.6) - (9.3) (67.9)
At 31 March 2008     305.5 0.2 50.7 356.4
Current service cost     14.1 0.1 2.5 16.7
Past service cost     - - 0.3 0.3
Interest cost     18.4 - 4.6 23.0
Benefits paid     (12.5) - (1.8) (14.3)
Contributions paid by employees     1.0 - 0.8 1.8
Acquisition     19.7 - - 19.7
Transfer to joint venture     (73.1) - - (73.1)
Actuarial gains and losses     5.6 - (10.1) (4.5)
At 31 March 2009     278.7 0.3 47.0 326.0 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 127
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
41 Retirement benefits (continued)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets
     SIPS US Other Total 
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2007     305.7 - 51.0 356.7
Expected return on plan assets     23.6 - 3.9 27.5
Employer contributions     14.9 - 2.4 17.3
Contributions by employees     1.1 - 0.5 1.6
Benefits paid     (9.2) - (1.4) (10.6)
Actuarial gains and losses     (40.0) - (5.8) (45.8)
At 31 March 2008     296.1 - 50.6 346.7
Expected return on plan assets     20.5 - 5.5 26.0
Employer contributions     20.2 - 3.7 23.9
Contributions by employees     1.0 - 0.8 1.8
Benefits paid     (12.5) - (1.8) (14.3)
Acquisition     18.5 - - 18.5
Transfer to joint venture     (58.3) - - (58.3)
Actuarial gains and losses     (56.8) - (22.0) (78.8)
At 31 March 2009     228.7 - 36.8 265.5
History of experience gains and losses
    2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of scheme assets    265.5 346.7 356.7 324.9 252.8
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (326.0) (356.4) (394.3) (387.2) (314.5)
Deficit in the schemes    (60.5) (9.7) (37.6) (62.3) (61.7)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities   4.5 67.9 21.4 (51.1)  17.1
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets   (78.8) (45.8) 1.9 50.1  7.4
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the Group statement of recognised income 
and expense is £(5.4)m (2008: £68.9m). The Group expects the underlying contribution rates for the year ended 31 March 2010 for 
the defined benefit schemes to remain in line with those for the year ended 31 March 2009, with the exception of an additional £5m 
contribution being paid to the SIPS scheme in excess of that paid in the year ended 31 March 2009.
42 Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors, and contributes to a post-employment defined 
benefit plan on their behalf.
Directors also participate in the Group’s long-term incentive plans and share option schemes.
Key management personnel compensation is detailed in the Remuneration report.
Total remuneration is included in personnel expenses (note 9). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 128
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements continued
42 Related party transactions (continued)
Other related party transactions
During the year the Group has entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties. 
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 31 March 2009, are as follows:
     Sales Purchases Amounts Amounts 
     invoiced to from related owed by owed to 
     related party party related party related party 
     £m £m £m £m
Related party
Flagship Training Limited
2009     1.1 0.1 - -
2008     5.8 2.4 1.3 0.6
Fleet Support Limited
2009     0.9 - - -
2008     2.7 2.6 1.0 0.8
BVT Surface Fleet Limited
2009     9.9 1.9 2.8 0.9
2008     - - - -
University of Wales, Bangor
2009     0.7 - 0.1 2.5
2008     0.5 - - 2.5
Airtanker Services Limited
2009     21.2 - 9.3 -
2008     - - - -
Advanced Jet Training Co Limited
2009     7.8 - - -
2008     - - - -
Ascent Management Co Limited
2009     5.3 - - -
2008     - - - -
Careers Enterprise (Futures) Limited
2009     0.9 0.1 0.1 -
2008     1.0 0.1 0.1 -
L21 Lewisham PSP Limited
2009     - - 0.4 -
2008     - - - -
Lewisham Schools for the Future LEP Limited
2009     4.5 - 0.7 -
2008     2.8 - 2.6 -
Lewisham Schools for the Future SPV Limited
2009     0.5 - 0.3 -
2008     2.0 - - -
ALC (Superholdco) Limited
2009     1.8 - 5.6 -
2008     2.6 - - -
Whitefleet Limited
2009     1.4 46.8 0.2 3.1
2008     1.4 40.0 0.1 4.8 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 129
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
42 Related party transactions (continued)
Flagship Training Limited
The Group had a 50 per cent interest in Flagship Training Limited until 30 June 2008 when the remaining 50 per cent interest in the 
company was acquired. In addition to the amounts shown above, Flagship Training had provided a fixed-rate interest loan with a 
balance at 31 March 2008 of £7.3m. The disclosure above relates to the period when Flagship Training Limited was a joint venture.
Fleet Support Limited
The Group had a 50 per cent interest in Fleet Support Limited. On 1 July 2008 Fleet Support Limited was transferred into BVT Surface 
Fleet Limited.
BVT Surface Fleet Limited
The Group holds a 45 per cent interest in BVT Surface Fleet Limited as detailed in note 5.
University of Wales, Bangor
The University of Wales, Bangor, holds a 50 per cent stake in the VT controlled company, VT Ocean Sciences Limited. The majority of 
the turnover of this company is to the related party, University of Wales, Bangor.
Airtanker Services Limited
The Group holds a 23.3 per cent interest in Airtanker Services Limited.
Advanced Jet Training Co Limited and Ascent Management Co Limited
The Group holds a 50 per cent interest in both Advanced Jet Training Co Limited and Ascent Management Co Limited.
Careers Enterprise (Futures) Limited
The Group has an effective interest of 25.5 per cent in Careers Enterprise (Futures) Limited.
L21 Lewisham PSP Limited
The Group holds a 50 per cent interest in L21 Lewisham PSP Limited.
Lewisham Schools for the Future LEP Limited and Lewisham Schools for the Future SPV Limited
The Group holds an effective 40 per cent interest in Lewisham Schools for the Future LEP Limited and Lewisham Schools for the 
Future SPV Limited.
ALC (Superholdco) Limited
The Group has a 50 per cent interest in ALC (Superholdco) Limited.
Whitefleet Limited
The Group has a 50 per cent interest in Whitefleet Limited.
All dealings with related parties are conducted on an arms-length basis. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 130
     Notes  2009 2008 
       £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets     4  0.2 0.3
Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures   5  60.8 74.1
       61.0 74.4
Current assets
Current asset investments     6  190.2 -
Financial instruments     6  10.3 -
Debtors – amounts falling due after more than one year   8  646.8 479.1
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year    8  30.0 33.9
       877.3 513.0
Cash and cash equivalents       2.1 -
       879.4 513.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    9  (172.2) (111.3)
Net current assets       707.2 401.7
Total assets less current liabilities       768.2 476.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    9  (427.3) (145.1)
Net assets       340.9 331.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital     10  8.9 8.9
Share premium account     11  43.9 40.6
Revaluation reserve     11  10.3 10.3
Capital reserve     11  14.0 8.7
Profit and loss account     11  263.8 262.5
Shareholders’ funds       340.9 331.0
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and were signed on its behalf by:
P J Harrison P J Lester 
Finance Director Chief Executive 
12 May 2009 12 May 2009 
Company balance sheet  
at 31 March 2009 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 131
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
1 Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business
VT Group plc is the parent company of the VT Group of companies which are engaged in the provision of support services.
2 Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation  
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP).
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost 
convention and in accordance with the going concern basis as detailed in note 2 of the Group IFRS financial statements.
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 1 from the requirement to publish its own cash flow statement, as its cash flows  
are included within the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group.
Advantage has been taken of the exemption available under FRS 8 not to disclose details of transactions with other Group 
undertakings as the consolidated financial statements are shown on pages 68 to 129.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting,  
in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen  
but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. Deferred taxation assets are recognised only to 
the extent that in the opinion of the Directors, there is a reasonable probability that the asset will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in 
the notes to the financial statements.
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less any provisions for impairment in value.
Fixed assets and depreciation
Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset 
on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life as follows:
Computer software 3 to 5 years
Current asset investments
Current asset investments relate to investments which will be recovered through disposal rather than continuing use within the 
business. Current asset investments are measured in the balance sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and net realisable value.
Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised as they arise in the income statement.
Share-based payments
Although the Company does not incur a charge under FRS 20, the issuance by the Company to its subsidiaries of a grant over 
the Company’s options represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in 
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value 
of the grant issued allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
3 Profit and loss account disclosures
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account or statement of total recognised gains and losses as permitted by 
section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company profit on ordinary activities after tax was £30.5m (2008: £14.3m).
The Company audit fee was £25,000 (2008: £20,000). Other services were provided to the Company in connection with the auditor’s 
role as reporting accountants in the creation of the BVT joint venture amounting to £300,000 (2008: £1.2m).
Dividend disclosures are provided in note 14 to the VT Group plc consolidated accounts.
The Company had no employees during the year (2008: nil). Details in relation to Directors’ remuneration are set out in the 
Remuneration report on pages 58 to 65.
Notes to the Company  
financial statements VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 132
4 Tangible fixed assets
        Computer 
        software 
        £m
Cost
At 1 April        0.5
Additions        -
At 31 March        0.5
Depreciation
At 1 April        0.2
Charge in year        0.1
At 31 March        0.3
Net book value  
At 31 March 2009        0.2
At 31 March 2008        0.3
5 Fixed asset investments
       Capital 
       contribution 
      Shares in relating to 
     Shares in Group joint venture share-based 
     undertakings undertakings payments Total 
     £m £m £m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1 April      65.3 0.1 8.7 74.1
Additions     177.8 - 5.3 183.1
Transfers to joint venture     (196.4) 196.4 - -
Fair value of put option on initial recognition    - (6.2) - (6.2)
Transfers to current asset investments    - (190.2) - (190.2)
At 31 March     46.7 0.1 14.0 60.8
The cost of investment in subsidiary undertakings according to historical cost accounting rules is £33.1m (2008: £51.7m), with the 
revaluation relating to Vosper Thornycroft (UK) Ltd at the date of flotation, 17 March 1988.
BVT joint venture transaction
Additions relate to the transfer of shares in the transaction which gave rise to the creation of the BVT joint venture. Shares in 
VT Shipbuilding Holdings (a previously wholly owned subsidiary of VT Group plc) were transferred to BVT Surface Fleet Limited in 
exchange for a 45 per cent interest in that company. Costs incurred in carrying out the transaction of £17m have also been capitalised.
As part of the transaction to create the joint venture, VT Group was granted a put option over shares in BVT Surface Fleet Limited. 
In accordance with FRS 26 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’, this financial asset has been recognised at fair 
value giving rise to a gain of £6.2m which has reduced the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in joint ventures. At 31 March 2009, 
the fair value of this put option was £10.3m. The movement in the fair value of £4.1m has been recorded in the profit and loss account.
On 28 January 2009, the Group announced its intention to exercise its put option over the shares in BVT Surface Fleet Limited and, as 
a result, the Group’s interest in the BVT joint venture has been transferred to the current asset investments caption in the balance sheet.
Notes to the Company  
financial statements continued VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 133
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
5 Fixed asset investments (continued)
Principal subsidiary undertakings
Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
        Percentage  
        of ordinary 
Subsidiary  Principal activity      shares held
Vosper Thornycroft (UK) Limited  Shipbuilding, and design and manufacture of engineering products  100
VT Group International Limited  Holding company     100
VT Insurance Services Limited  Provision of Group insurance     100
VT Investments Limited  Group investment holding company    100
VT Environmental Services Limited  Holding company     100
In addition, the Company holds a 45 per cent interest in the shares of BVT Surface Fleet Limited as detailed above.
6 Current asset investments
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Interest in BVT Surface Fleet       190.2 -
7 Financial instruments
The financial instruments reported by the Company relate to the put option in respect of the BVT joint venture. For details of the 
financial instruments, please see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
8 Debtors
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      672.0 505.4
Other debtors       4.8 7.6
       676.8 513.0
Included within the amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are £646.8m (2008: £479.1m) of items that fall due for payment after 
one year from the balance sheet date.
9 Creditors
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Bank overdraft       68.7 14.0
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      99.7 89.9
Corporation tax       0.5 6.3
Other creditors       0.7 -
Accruals and deferred income       2.6 1.1
       172.2 111.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Bank loans       129.9 145.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      297.4 -
       427.3 145.1
The bank loan and overdraft are secured by cross-guarantee arrangements between certain material subsidiary undertakings.
The bank loan represents a revolving credit facility of which £80m is available to the Company until March 2011, with the remainder 
available to the Company until November 2011. The total amount available under the facility is £305m (2008: £305m) and the facility 
currently bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.45 per cent to 1.50 per cent (2008: LIBOR plus 0.45 per cent). VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 134
10 Called-up share capital
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Authorised
200,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each      10.0 10.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid
178,744,558 ordinary shares of 5p each (2008: 177,739,167 ordinary shares of 5p each)   8.9 8.9
During the year 802,997 (2008: 2,013,321) ordinary shares were issued for a cash consideration of £2.0m (2008: £5.3m) under the 
Company’s share option schemes. In addition 202,394 (2008: 236,679) shares were issued to the employee trust to satisfy future 
pending awards under the Company’s share schemes.
11 Share premium and reserves
    Share    Profit 
    premium Revaluation  Capital and loss 
    account reserve reserve account Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April    40.6 10.3 8.7 262.5 322.1
Profit for the year    - - - 30.5 30.5
Dividends paid    - - - (24.0) (24.0)
Purchase of treasury shares    - - - (5.2) (5.2)
Premium on issue of shares    3.3 - - - 3.3
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments  - - 5.3 - 5.3
At 31 March    43.9 10.3 14.0 263.8 332.0
Treasury shares
Own shares held are recognised as a deduction from retained earnings. At 31 March 2009, the Group held 913,722 (2008: 443,326)  
of the Company’s shares of 5p each.
12 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
       2009 2008 
       £m £m
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation      30.5 14.3
Dividends       (24.0) (21.4)
Retained profit/(loss) for the year       6.5 (7.1)
New share capital subscribed       3.3 5.3
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments     5.3 4.1
Treasury shares (purchase)/disposal       (5.2) (2.0)
Net addition to shareholders’ funds       9.9 0.3
Opening shareholders’ funds       331.0 330.7
Closing shareholders’ funds       340.9 331.0
13 Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats 
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make 
a payment under the guarantee.
Details regarding BVT Surface Fleet are set out in note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the Company  
financial statements continued VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 135
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
   IFRS
    2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover*    1,095.7 845.4 733.0 557.3 450.0
Group operating profit*    59.8 37.7 29.5 27.5 19.7
Share of results of equity accounted investments*   7.5 11.8 10.3 6.3 5.8
Net interest (payable)/receivable*    (6.8) (4.0) 0.7 0.9 0.8
Profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax*  60.5 45.5 40.5 34.7 26.3
Exceptional costs*    (28.3) - (1.0) - -
Profit on ordinary activities before tax*    32.2 45.5 39.5 34.7 26.3
Taxation*    (7.1) (8.4) (6.3) (7.3) (5.7)
Profit on ordinary activities after tax*    25.1 37.1 33.2 27.5 20.6
Discontinued operations    83.5 20.9 12.9 14.9 12.4
Minority interest    (0.8) (1.2) (1.7) (0.7) (1.2)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 107.8 56.8 44.4 41.7 31.8
Underlying profit
Profit before taxation as reported – continuing activities  32.2 45.5 39.5 34.7 26.3
Charges/(credits) included in profit:
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations 23.0 9.9 7.7 1.5 0.1
Taxation charge relating to equity accounted investments  2.3 5.0 4.4 2.7 2.5
Exceptional and non recurring items   28.3 - 1.0 - -
Fair value movements on derivatives   0.8 1.2 (1.0) - -
Underlying profit    86.6 61.6 51.6 39.0 28.9
Fixed assets
Goodwill    303.3 254.1 206.1 170.3 155.9
Property plant and equipment    99.8 171.4 155.8 122.5 181.7
Investment property    - 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.9
Other intangible assets    153.9 70.7 51.2 20.6 7.7
Equity accounted investments    14.6 30.3 27.1 12.9 10.8
Deferred tax assets    36.9 19.0 24.4 30.2 22.1
Other non-current assets    6.5 4.5 4.4 5.4 12.4
Cash and cash equivalents    51.5 60.1 75.2 112.0 39.9
Assets held for sale – discontinued operations   119.7 - - - -
Other current assets    266.0 241.5 204.0 170.9 147.5
Current liabilities    (398.1) (327.4) (344.4) (295.9) (258.0)
Non-current liabilities    (323.4) (262.1) (202.3) (193.9) (194.4)
Minority interest    (2.3) (2.7) (2.6) 0.1 (1.1)
Equity shareholders’ funds    328.4 260.1 199.7 155.9 125.4
Earnings per share
Basic – adjusted (as defined in note 13)   33.9p 24.1p 20.1p 16.0p 11.3p
Basic – continuing operations*    13.7p 20.3p 18.0p 15.4p 11.2p
Basic – discontinued operations    47.1p 11.9p 7.4p 8.6p 7.2p
Dividend per share    14.4p 13.1p 11.9p 10.8p 9.8p
* Arising from continuing operations
Five-year summary VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 136
The following is a list of the Group’s principal subsidiary and joint venture undertakings. All holdings are of ordinary shares or common 
stock and are 100 per cent unless otherwise stated.
   Country of  Country of 
Name Activity incorporation operation
Airwork Limited* Support services for overseas airforces England Oman 
ALC (Superholdco) Limited*
†
 (50%) Provision of services to HM Armed Forces England UK
Ascent Flight Training (Holdings) Limited
†
 (50%) Provision of initial flying training England UK
BIL Solutions Limited* Project management for the nuclear industry England UK
BVT Surface Fleet Limited
†
 (45%) Construction of naval craft and provision of  England UK 
 support services
Careers Enterprise Limited* (50%) Provision of careers services in the counties of  England UK 
 Buckinghamshire, Kent and the City of London
Deva Manufacturing Services Limited* Manufacture of containers for the nuclear industry England UK and worldwide
Guidance Enterprise Group Limited*
†
 (50%) Provision of careers services England UK
HCTC Limited* Provision of training services  England UK
L21 Lewisham PSP Limited
†
 (50%) Provision of services for Building Schools for the Future England UK
The Cube Corporation, Inc.* Support services for the US government USA USA
Touchstone Learning and Skills Limited*  Provision of training services  England UK
Vosper Thornycroft (UK) Limited Holding company  England UK
VT Aepco Inc* Provision of aviation support services to the  USA USA 
 US government
VT Aerospace Limited* Provision of support services for the Royal Air Force England UK
VT Career Progressions Limited* Provision of software for careers services England UK
VT Careers Management Limited* Holding company England UK
VT Communications Limited* Provision of worldwide communications England UK and worldwide
VT Critical Services Limited* Provision of vehicle services Scotland UK
VT Education & Skills Limited* Provision of education services England UK
VT Fire Services Limited* Special projects operating company England UK
VT Fire Training (Avonmouth) Limited* Special projects operating company England UK
VT Fitzroy Limited* (70%) Support services for the Royal New Zealand Navy New Zealand New Zealand
VT Flagship Limited*  Worldwide provision of naval training services to  England UK and worldwide 
 HM Armed Forces and other establishments
VT Four S Limited* (80.1%) Provision of school support services England UK
VT Griffin Services, Inc.* Provision of support services for the US government USA USA
VT Group International Limited Holding company England UK
VT Group Services Limited* Provision of support services for VT Group England UK
VT Insurance Services Limited Captive insurance company Guernsey Guernsey
VT Investments Limited Group investment holding company England UK
VT Land Limited* Provision of vehicle services  England UK
VT Leaseco Limited* Special projects company England UK
VT Milcom, Inc.* Provision of support services for the US government USA USA
VT Nuclear Services Limited* Project management for the nuclear industry England UK and worldwide
VT Ocean Sciences Limited*
†
 (50%) Special projects operating company England UK
VT Southern Careers Limited*  Provision of careers services  England UK
VT Support Services Limited* Holding company England UK
VT Training Plc* Provision of training services England UK
VT US Inc.* Holding company USA USA
VT West Sussex Careers Limited* Provision of careers services in the county  England UK 
 of West Sussex
Whitefleet Limited*
†
 (50%) Provision of vehicle services  England UK
* Investment held by a subsidiary company
†
 Joint venture undertaking
Principal subsidiary and  
joint venture undertakings VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 137
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
VT Group plc 
VT House  
Grange Drive, Hedge End  
Southampton SO30 2DQ, UK 
T: +44 (0) 2380 839001  
F: +44 (0) 2380 839002  
E: vtgroup@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com
VT Support Services  
Bournemouth International Airport  
Christchurch, Dorset BH23 6BS, UK 
T: +44 (0) 1202 365200  
F: +44 (0) 1202 573692  
E: vtssbusinessdevelopment@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/supportservices
VT Aerospace  
Bournemouth International Airport  
Christchurch, Dorset BH23 6BS, UK 
T: +44 (0) 1202 365200  
F: +44 (0) 1202 573692  
E: vtssbusinessdevelopment@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/aerospace
VT Critical Services  
Couching House  
41 Couching Street, Watlington 
Oxfordshire OX49 5PX, UK 
T: +44 (0) 1491 615370  
F: +44 (0) 1491 615379  
E: vtssbusinessdevelopment@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/supportservices
VT Land  
Bournemouth International Airport  
Christchurch, Dorset BH23 6BS, UK 
T: +44 (0) 1202 365200  
F: +44 (0) 1202 573692  
E: vtssbusinessdevelopment@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/land
VT Nuclear Services  
2100 Daresbury Park  
Warrington  
Cheshire WA4 4BP, UK 
T: +44 (0) 1928 705000 
F: 0870 757 7631 
E: nuclearservices@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtnuclearservices.co.uk
VT Communications 
Blue Fin Building  
110 Southwark Street  
London SE1 0TA, UK 
T: +44 (0) 2079 690000  
F: +44 (0) 2073 966221 
E: vtcommunications@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/communications
VT Services, Inc.  
10745 Westside Way, Suite 300  
Alpharetta, Georgia 30009, USA  
T: + 1 770 952 1479  
F: + 1 770 859 0410  
E: info@vtservices.com  
W: www.vtservices.com
VT Education & Skills  
Shore House  
Compass Road, North Harbour  
Portsmouth PO6 4PR, UK 
T: +44 (0) 2392 339000  
F: +44 (0) 2392 339001  
E: vtes@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtplc.com/educationandskills
VT Training  
Shore House 
Compass Road, North Harbour 
Portsmouth PO6 4PR, UK 
T: 0800 731 8199 
F: +44 (0) 2392 339001 
E: training@vtplc.com  
W: www.vttraining.co.uk
VT Four S Limited  
Head Office 
Bay Tree Avenue, Kingston Road  
Leatherhead KT22 4UE, UK 
T: 0800 073 4444  
F: +44 (0) 1372 834000  
E: info@fours.co.uk  
W: www.vtfours.co.uk
VT Flagship Limited  
Shore House 
Compass Road, North Harbour 
Portsmouth PO6 4PR, UK 
T: +44 (0) 2392 339000  
F: +44 (0) 2392 339001  
E: vtflagship@vtplc.com  
W: www.vtflagship.co.uk
Principal locations  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 138
Shareholder information
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Tel 0870 162 3100
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
You can elect to receive future dividends as shares rather than cash by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. For further 
information please contact Capita Registrars.
Dividends direct to your bank account
Having your dividend paid directly to your bank or building society account gives the following benefits:
 Avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post
 No need to visit your bank to pay in the cheque
 Dividend credited to your account on the day it is paid
Your tax voucher will be sent to your registered address as usual.
To set up a dividend mandate or change your existing mandate details, please contact Capita Registrars. If you currently receive  
a dividend cheque, a mandate form will be included with your next cheque.
Duplicate accounts
If you receive two or more copies of the Annual report and accounts and / or multiple cheques for each dividend payment, please 
contact Capita Registrars on 0870 162 3100 and ask for your accounts to be amalgamated.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is currently obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a consequence some shareholders may 
receive unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service 
DMA House 
70 Margaret Street 
London 
W1W 8SS
www.mpsonline.org.uk 
Tel 0845 703 4599
The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation offering a free service to the public.
Contact us
We welcome your comments.
Email us at shareholders@vtplc.com
ShareGift
If you hold only a few shares and feel it would be uneconomical or not worthwhile to sell them, you could consider giving them to 
charity. ShareGift is a free service for shareholders wishing to give small holdings of shares to charitable causes. There are no capital 
gains tax implications on gifts of shares to charities. Further information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 30 July 2009 
Ex dividend date  8 July 2009 
Record date  10 July 2009 
Final dividend payment date  13 August 2009 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 139
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
Notes VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 140
Notes VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009
Customer focused
Contents
Overview of the year 1
Results summary 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s report 4
Financial review 8
Explaining the Group 14
Customer case studies  16 
VT Support Services  26
VT Education & Skills 30
VT Communications  32
VT Services Inc 34
Discontinued operations 36
How we run the Group 37
Board of Directors 38
Corporate responsibility 40
Key risks and uncertainties 48
Corporate governance 50
Statutory information 55
Directors’ report 56
Remuneration report 58
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 66
Independent auditor’s report 67
Financial statements 68
Five-year summary 135
Principal subsidiary 
and joint venture undertakings 136
Principal locations 137
Shareholder information 138
VT Group manages assets and provides 
services that our customers consider critical 
to their own activities. Our 12,000 people 
deliver these services world-wide, primarily 
for governments and their agencies, with the 
majority of the business being located in the 
United Kingdom and the United States.
The common thread running through our 
business is our ability to work in partnership 
with our customers and supply chain. 
Through mutual understanding, aligning 
objectives and sharing risk and reward, we are 
able to create solutions and deliver services 
that are focused on meeting our customers 
needs and exceeding their expectations.
Designed and produced by Barrett Howe, www.barretthowe.com
This report is printed on Era Silk which contains 50% post-consumer waste. The FSC logo identifies products 
which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council. Printed using vegetable based inks and a bio-degradable laminate. Our printer is registered to 
environmental management system ISO 14001 and is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Annual report and accounts 2009
www.vtplc.com
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009
www.vtplc.com
VT Group plc 
VT House 
Grange Drive, Hedge End 
Southampton SO30 2DQ, UK 
T: +44(0)23 8083 9001 
F:  +44(0)23 8083 9002 
E:  vtgroup@vtplc.com 
w: www.vtplc.com
Registered Number: 01915771
