 More than
an automotive
supplier
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Wagon plc
3500 Parkside
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham, B37 7YG
United Kingdom
Registered in England No. 150042
Telephone +44 (0)121 770 4030
www.wagonautomotive.com
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Cover_AW_F.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  21:27  Page 1 Designed by Navyblue Design Group
Board Photography by Nick David
Through our ability to develop solutions
and solve OEMs’ issues, our close
relationship and confidence with OEMs
and our operational performance, we
will be recognised as a partner of choice
in Europe for structural assemblies
and ‘comfort systems’ for commercial
and passenger vehicles.
To us its all about partner relationships
rather than supplier relationships.
Contents
01 Highlights
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Partner Relationships
14 Business Group Review
20 Financial Review
24 Board of Directors
26 Executive Committee & Company Secretary
28 Directors’ Report
32 Remuneration Report
38 Corporate Governance
44 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
45 Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Wagon plc
46 Consolidated Income Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income & Expense
48 Consolidated Balance Sheet
49 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
89 Company Balance Sheet
90 Company Accounting Policies
95 Company Notes to the Financial Statements
101 Financial Summary in Euro
102 Five Year Summary
103 Shareholder Information
104 Operating Locations
Cover_AW_F.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  21:27  Page 2 Our priorities
in 2006/07
— Integrate former Oxford business to
improve efficiency and secure cost savings
— Implement Wagon Management System
(particularly Safety First) across the
enlarged company
— Establish broader manufacturing footprint,
particularly in low cost countries
— Leverage our customer base to further
develop and enhance existing relationships
— Continue new product and new market
development for the Innovative Solutions
Business Group
Highlights
— Operational improvement
— Strong operational cash
management
— Low cost country development
— Transformational acquisition
— Integration under way
2007 2006 2007 p/f 2006 p/f
Sales £710.0m £417.2m £658.5m £717.8m
Underlying operating profit
*
£15.2m £21.5m £17.2m £14.2m
Operating (loss)/profit (£60.1m) £21.1m (£58.1m) £10.2m
Underlying operating cashflow* £8.0m £31.5m £62.0m £46.9m
Operating cashflow (£8.8m) £31.0m £45.2m £49.4m
Dividend per share 5.0p 9.0p – –
*Before restructuring and impairment
The pro forma figures above are discussed in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23
Financial Highlights
Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 1
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 1 2Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Expanding our
international footprint
Our areas of business
Europe and Turkey
Plants
1
2
18
17
23
19
19
5
4 8
10
13
11
17
06 19
07 23
Countries
06
07 10
8
Employees
06 4,519
07 6,570
Transforming
our footprint
In 2006 Wagon acquired
8 Oxford plants, disposed
of 5 low-tonnage stampings
plants, announced the
closure of 2 factories and
started-up production in
3 new plants, repositioning
the Group for future growth
and higher added-value.
6
7
9
12
20
22
3
16 14
15
21
Italy
Atessa
Spain
Orense
Wagon’s new plant in
Western Spain supplies
PSA’s C4 Picasso with door
shading systems, novel
extendable sunvisors
as well as the optional
glass roof and shading
system, which is the
central feature of the
vehicle’s value proposition:
"the visiospace".
Products
Extendable sunvisors,
door shading systems,
glass roof and shading
system module.
Key customer
Wagon’s new Atessa
plant features the most
advanced use of automated
in-line roll-profiling, cutting,
stamping and welding
technology to provide
H-frame sections and
assemblies with a tiny
fraction of the scrap
compared to conventional
stamping technology.
Products
Roll-formed space-frame
sections and assemblies
for the body-in-white of
Light Commercial Vehicles.
Key customers
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 2 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 3
Our main customers 2007 Statistics
Plants
23
Countries
10
Employees
6,570
China USA
1
2
24
24
24
25
25
19
20
3
5
4
6
7
8
9
10
13
11
12
Key
14
16
21
Plant Engineering centre
15
22
23
18
17
China
Shanghai
Belgium
Fleurus
Czech Republic
Bêlá
France
Bressuire
Fontaine
Gérardmer
Sainte Gauburge
Champigny
Essômes
Saint Pierre
Douai
Elancourt
Orbec
Saint Florent
sur Cher
Germany
Pförring
Waldaschaff
Nagold
Italy
Atessa
Fiano
Spain
Orense
United Kingdom
Birmingham
Brownhills
Coventry
Turkey
Bursa
China
Shanghai
United States
Wixom
Wagon inaugurated its
new Shanghai plant, a first
step into Asia. The plant
manufactures safety-
critical buffers for lift
manufacturers, bringing
Wagon Oleo closer to its
customers in the largest
world market for new
elevators, as well as
Wagon’s patented "bay
flush" sliding window
for the Asian market.
Products
Bay flush windows,
Lift buffers
Key customers
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 3 4Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Following the acquisition of Oxford Automotive at the very start
of the year under review, this has been a period focussed on
integration and the realisation of the synergies arising from
the combination.
Significant restructuring actions have taken place in both our
European Operational Centre and within our plants, and we
successfully disposed of five non strategic plants in December
2006. The result is a considerably stronger business, better
positioned to serve the needs of the automotive market in Europe.
Trading conditions overall proved more difficult than the
Company expected. In France in particular, currently our
largest market, demand was weak, as previously announced.
In light of this the Company has agreed heads of terms for a
refinancing of its lending facilities.
As previously announced, order intake from French OEMs
has been weaker this year partly due to temporary in-sourcing
trends, which we believe are now passed. In mitigation, the
impact of this will not be felt for at least two years and will
depend on the extent to which order intake can be made
up elsewhere.
Despite these difficult market conditions, the strong
improvements in our operations and the wide-ranging cost
cutting initiatives have allowed us to deliver results in line with
our expectations.
Given the uncertain market conditions and balancing business
opportunities and operational restructuring commitments,
the Board considers it prudent to recommend a reduced final
dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share, making 5.0p for the year,
which will be paid on 6 September 2007 to members on the
register at close of business on 10 August 2007. Shareholders
Chairman’s
Statement
Christopher Clark
Chairman
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 4 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5
will be given the opportunity to elect for a scrip dividend in lieu
of the cash dividend – shareholder approval for this will be
sought at the AGM. In future the Company intends to align
dividends more closely to earnings, targeting cover of two
times normalised earnings.
People and Board changes
Sarkis Kalyandjian and Hervé Guillaume, who were appointed
as Directors following the completion of the acquisition of
Oxford Automotive, stepped down from the Wagon Board
at the end of March, and we thank them for their contributions.
Rolf Zimmermann has been appointed as Remuneration
Committee Chairman following the departure of Sarkis
Kalyandjian, as previously announced.
We welcomed Jens Höhnel to the Board. Jens has many
years experience in the Automotive industry, especially
in the German market, and we very much look forward
to his contributions.
Following these changes, the Board is in the process of
recruiting a further independent Non-Executive Director to
return the Company to the expected balance of independence
required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
This has been a very busy year with many competing demands
on management time, and the strength and quality of Wagon’s
management has shown through in successfully delivering on
many fronts.
For our employees this has been a turbulent year with
significant restructuring activity occurring across the Group.
It is the employees who define Wagon’s performance, and
we thank them for their contributions in the midst of the
restructuring actions, and at times difficult trading conditions.
Current Trading and Outlook
Trading volumes since the start of the new financial year
are in line with the Board’s expectations, and as previously
announced, current market pressures on raw material
pricing are expected to have only a marginal effect on
our performance.
The outlook for European new car registrations remains
unclear, particularly in France, our largest market. However,
we start the current year a stronger company having integrated
the two businesses, and harnessed the administrative
synergies arising from the combination.
We have progressed a long way in the rearrangement of
the combined manufacturing resources, to provide an
organisation better sized and structured to serve our markets.
In the current year we expect to see the previously announced
benefits from restructuring programmes materialising in
earnings improvements.
Christopher Clark
Chairman
7 June 2007
Despite difficult market conditions,
the strong improvements in our
operations and the wide-ranging
cost cutting initiatives have
allowed us to deliver results
in line with our expectations.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 5 6Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s
Review
Key German
Contracts awarded
Following the acquisitions of FKT
and Oxford, Wagon grows its
position in Germany with two key
contracts awarded. A Luggage
Management System for BMW
and a Military Truck Cabin (stampings,
assembly and painting) for Daimler
Chrysler trucks.
2006/07:
A period of achievement
Renault Mégane
contracts awarded:
Hinge + BiW
Confirming its position as a key
partner to Renault, Wagon wins
contracts for more than £7.5 million
in annual turnover to supply the new
Mégane platform with hinges and
large body-in-white assemblies.
Several of Wagon’s French plants
will contribute to supplying the
Renault Mégane.
Acquisition
of Oxford
On 7 of April the Board announces
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive,
a leading European automotive
supplier of large stampings, Body-
in-White Assemblies and hinges
and mechanisms. This acquisition
consolidates Wagon’s position as
a leading partner to the European
automotive industry and nearly
doubles the Group’s sales.
April May July
We have brought together
the talents and resources of
two businesses into a single
organisation capable of more
effectively serving our
chosen market sectors with
enhanced technologies,
footprint and scale.
‘‘
‘‘
Pierre Vareille
Group Chief Executive
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 6 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7
These actions have enabled the Group to mitigate some of the
effects of trading weakness during the year and the benefits
are expected to recover the costs of the restructuring by the
end of 2008, as anticipated at the time of the announcement
of the acquisition of Oxford.
2. Implement the Wagon Management System across the
enlarged company.
We have been very encouraged by our progress in the Wagon
Management System programmes during the year, and in
particular with the enthusiasm of engagement by the former
Oxford plants in Safety First and Wagon Excellence.
– In Safety First, a key indicator of overall plant performance,
we have reduced the Lost Time Accident rate by 36%, and
of our 22 plants, 3 achieved at least 12 months without a
Lost Time Accident during the year. Although Wagon has
now joined the league of the good performers in our industry,
we believe that there are still improvements to be made,
to make Wagon a safer and more efficient organisation.
– In Wagon Excellence, our Internal PPM reject rate has declined
by 32%, and our Value Added per Employee has increased by
4.5%. Our Stock on Sales % has decreased by 9.9%.
– In Customer Focus, our customer quality measure – External
PPM rejects – has reduced by 48%, and customer claims
by 8%.
All of our plants, save for the newest in Shanghai (China), now
have third party accreditations under ISO14001 (environmental
systems), ISOTS16949-ISO 9001 (quality systems) and
OHSAS18001 (safety systems).
This has been a transformational twelve months for Wagon,
bringing together the talents and resources of the former
Wagon and Oxford businesses into a single organisation
capable of more effectively serving its chosen market sectors,
with enhanced technologies, footprint and scale.
Review of 2006/07 Priorities
At the beginning of the year we established our five key
priorities for the year. We have made significant progress
against all of these:
1. Integrate the Oxford Automotive operations to improve
efficiency, and to secure cost savings.
Having adopted a clearly defined new organisational model
from the first day following acquisition, we have run three
major reorganisation programmes:
a. The Operational Centre integration, completed in December,
involved the closure of Wagon’s former headquarters in
Poissy, France and the transfer of its activities to Oxford
Automotive’s base near Paris.
b. The disposal of five low-tonnage stampings plants, also
completed in December, was an important strategic step.
They operated in a market segment non-core to Wagon’s
new positioning and performed poorly during the first half.
The transaction resulted in a loss on disposal of £26.4 million.
c. The plant restructuring programmes, now well into their
final stages, include the co-location of common production
technologies and associated plant closures, productivity
improvements and the rebalancing of our manufacturing
footprint. As part of this process, all of the Ford production
was successfully moved to Waldaschaff from Fleurus ahead
of the latter’s closure. As previously announced, these
actions will result in the loss of approximately 900 jobs
across the Group.
Ford Fusion contract
awarded
Car manufacturers are increasingly
adopting sliding doors in response to
consumer demand for easier access
to car interiors. Wagon is the European
leader for designing and supplying a
system of rails and mechanisms for
sliding doors. Ford chose to partner
with Wagon to supply the new Ford
Fusion which will be equipped with
sliding doors for the first time.
Operational
Centres merged
Five months after the completion
of the Oxford acquisition, Wagon
combined the two French
Operational Centres responsible
for engineering, commercial and
administrative functions together
into the former Oxford location
near Paris, thereby saving costs
and improving communications
and cross-selling synergies.
September September October
Turn over to read more on a year of achievements
Fiat Qualitas award
Wagon is awarded a special prize
called “Qualitas” at the Fiat
Supplier’s International Convention
on 25 October 2006. This prize
recognises Wagon in Italy as
Fiat’s best supplier worldwide
in terms of quality, service and
customer satisfaction.
(See page 10)
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 7 8Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
3. Establish a broader manufacturing footprint, particularly
in low cost countries.
We have opened three new plants this year: in Atessa (Italy),
producing body structure parts for the Ducato van for the Fiat /
PSA joint venture; in Orense (Spain) producing the sun visor
and glass roof systems for the new Citroën Xsara Picasso; and
in Shanghai (China) where we have started production for
Hyundai, and where our Oleo business is also now producing
lift buffers.
In addition, as part of our restructuring programme and our
development in low cost countries, we have established
expertise in roll-forming and assembly at our plant in Bursa
(Turkey), and we are establishing an assembly plant in Romania
to serve our Innovative Solutions and Closure Systems
businesses. We have also accelerated the transfer of some
programmes to our plant in Turkey, particularly from our plant
in Brownhills (UK).
4. Leverage our customer base to further develop and
enhance existing relationships.
The combined capabilities of the enlarged business enable
us to provide new product lines. In particular, we hold leading
positions in several areas such as sliding door rails and
mechanisms and structural roll-profiled products. We are also
pursuing promising opportunities with those European OEMs
with whom we were not previously working, particularly
in Germany.
As already announced order intake from French OEMs has
been weaker this year partly due to temporary in-sourcing
trends, which we believe are now passed. The lifetime turnover
value of the orders booked in the year represents 77% of the
manufacturing turnover of the continuing business (2006:
111%). In mitigation, the impact of this weaker intake will not
be felt for at least two years and will depend on the extent to
which order intake can be made up elsewhere.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
SSAB Swedish
Steel Prize
SSAB Swedish Steel organises a world-wide
competition every year to award a prize for the
best and most innovative use of high strength
steel. We are proud to have won the first prize
in collaboration with our customer Fiat for
the door internal waistline re-inforcement
for the highly successful Fiat Grande Punto.
Using roll-forming technology, the result is
a very competitive product characterised by
high strength, low weight and very efficient
material usage.
Wagon Supplier
Convention held
In October, Wagon’s first Supplier Convention
brought together 150 participants representing
the Group’s 95 top suppliers, at the Stade de
France, in Paris. The Group’s organisation
and strategy, and the Wagon Supplier
Development programme were presented.
At the end of the afternoon all participants had
the chance to meet in less formal surroundings
and to view the Group’s full product range.
Suppliers left the convention with a clear view
of Wagon Automotive today and what is now
expected from them. (See page 1 1)
October November
Following this transformational
year, in 2007/08 we will seek to
build on the solid foundations
of the enlarged and
restructured Group.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 8 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9
Among significant programme wins for the Closure Systems
Business Group were the front bumper assembly on the
Peugeot T8 (PSA MPV), the sliding door mechanisms and rails
for the Ford Fusion, and door frames on the X35X (GM Epsilon II).
In Body Structures, the most significant success has been
securing the Peugeot T76 programme, which will replace the
existing T56 (PSA 307cc) in 2008. This secures the future of the
Fontaine plant, and addresses all of the associated legacy issues.
Significant work was also won for the W62 (Renault Master).
5. Continue new product and new market development for the
Innovative Solutions Business Group.
The primary focus has been on the commissioning of the two
new plants in Orense and Shanghai, and on a number of new
programme start-ups. Sales of the innovative patented flush
bay windows, currently being produced in Shanghai for the
Hyundai Starex, should develop rapidly in the years to come.
The integration of FKT following its acquisition in December
2005 has enabled us to offer our existing products to the
German market and we have started the development of a new
concept for glass roofs, which we expect to be well received
amongst both French and German OEMs.
2007/08 Priorities
Following this transformational year, we will seek to build on
the solid foundations of the enlarged and restructured Group
with the following agenda of priorities.
1. Consolidate the extensive step changes to reap the full
benefits of our reorganisation programme
2. Further embed the Wagon Management System (and
particularly Safety First) across the enlarged company
3. Develop our innovation capabilities to augment our offer,
and enhance our relationship with our customers
4. Examine and pursue de-leveraging opportunities
5. Look for a new step change in our footprint and continue
to develop our presence in low cost countries.
Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive
7 June 2007
Start of Production
in Shanghai
Wagon inaugurates the start of
production of its new Shanghai plant.
The plant manufactures safety-critical
buffers for lift manufacturers, bringing
Wagon Oleo closer to its customers in
the largest world market for new lifts.
The plant will also manufacture Wagon’s
patented “bay flush” sliding window
for the Asian market.
Ford Transit
transfer
In close co-operation with Ford,
Wagon redeploys production cells
to move closer to Ford’s assembly
plants, relocating bumper system
production from the UK to Turkey
where Ford increasingly assembles
its Transit van. Months of careful
preparation and training enabled a
seamless transfer without any
disruption to Ford’s assembly
lines. (See page 13)
Roll-forming techniques
Roll-forming is a metal forming technique used for steel,
stainless steel and aluminium to shape coils of metal into
parts with a profile by passing the sheet metal through a
series of rollers that progressively bend the metal into its
final desired profile. Once a straight profile is achieved then
the final curved shape is created by stretch bending the
profile. Roll-forming is often combined with in-line punching,
cutting and stamping operations to make holes in the part
(usually prior to profiling) or to give it its final shape.
It presents significant advantages over alternative
metal forming techniques, including in particular much
better material usage, lower tooling costs, higher tolerances
for long parts and greater flexibility to produce variants.
January
Orense in full swing
with Citroën C4
Picasso launch
Wagon’s new plant in Western Spain
goes into full production as our partner
PSA launches the 5 seat version of
the C4 Picasso. Wagon designed and
supplies door shading systems, novel
extendable sunvisors as well as the
optional glass roof and shading system.
(See page 12)
February December
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 9 10 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Partner
relationships
Wagon named
the best supplier
worldwide
to Fiat
Fiat’s International Supplier Convention, 25 October 2006, Turin.
Wagon is awarded the
Qualitas prize in the roll-
forming category for new
programme start-ups
with zero disturbance
to the final customer.
Mr Gianni Coda – Fiat Group
and Fiat Auto Purchasing Director
Wagon is awarded a special prize called ‘Qualitas’
at the last Fiat Supplier’s International Convention
on 25 October 2006. This prize recognises Wagon
in Italy as Fiat’s best supplier worldwide in terms
of quality, service and customer satisfaction.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  09:58  Page 10 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 11
Wagon Supplier
Convention raises
the Group’s profile
with key suppliers
& partners
Wagon Supplier Development Convention at the Convention Centre, Le Stade de France
Wagon’s first Supplier Convention brought together 150
participants representing the Group’s 95 top suppliers,
its purchasing team and members of the Executive
Committee at the Stade de France in Paris. The Group’s
organisation and strategy, and the Wagon Supplier
Development programme were presented and a less
formal gathering was organised for all to meet and view
the Group’s full product range which was showcased.
Suppliers left the convention with a clear view of Wagon
today and what is now expected of them.
Like many participants,
I was impressed to
discover the full extent
of the Wagon Group,
including its recent and
planned expansion.
We look forward to
a closer collaboration
with Wagon in the very
near future.
Mr Olivier Courtois
Managing Director,
Corus Group, France
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  10:00  Page 11 12 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Partner
relationships
Partnering with
PSA to deliver a
new experience
to consumers…
the“visiospace”
Citroën C4 Picasso, the “visiospace”
Thank you for your
brilliant innovations
and all the hard work
and dedication of the
outstanding Wagon
project team.
Marc Tison
PSA B58 Project Director, UK
Wagon’s new plant in Western Spain goes into full
production as our partner PSA launches the Citroën
C4 Picasso. Wagon designed and supplies door shading
systems, novel extendable sunvisors as well as the
optional glass roof and shading system, which is the
central feature of the vehicles value proposition and
marketing message: “the visiospace”.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 12 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13
Moving closer
to Ford
Ford Transit bumper produced by Wagon
In partnership with Ford, Wagon redeployed key
production cells to move closer to Ford’s assembly
plants. In close co-operation with Ford, Wagon
relocated bumper system production from the
UK to Turkey to better serve Ford which increasingly
assembles the Ford Transit in Turkey as well as in
the UK. Months of careful preparation and training
enabled a seamless transfer without any glitches
for Ford’s assembly lines.
Ford Otosan very much
appreciated Wagon’s
positive response and
commitment in order
to follow Ford’s request
to move the V184 Transit
Bumper production from
Brownhills to Bursa.
This is expected to
improve co-operation
between Wagon and
Ford Otosan for the
current and future
projects in Turkey.
Mr Yüksel Bîlen
Purchasing Director
Ford Otosan, Turkey
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 13 14 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Review of 2006
2006 was a transition year for the automotive supplier industry,
particularly in the French market where OEMs produced 10.9%
fewer passenger cars and light commercial vehicles than in
2005, mainly because of lack of new models and the transfer
of the production of some models to Eastern Europe. In this
context, the deployment of the Wagon Management System
to all plants, in particular Safety First and Wagon Excellence
System, helped to mitigate the financial impact of trading
conditions by accelerating cost reduction, improving quality
and decreasing stock levels. Within days of the completion of
the Oxford acquisition, the roll-out of the Wagon Management
System to the former Oxford plants was underway, and at the
end of the year we are pleased to report significant operational
improvements to those plants.
2006 was also a year of significant change to the Group’s
industrial footprint. In April 2006, Wagon underwent a step
change with the takeover of Oxford Automotive. In December
2006, Wagon completed the disposal of part of the business
and certain assets of the former Metal Components Business
Group. The successful sale of 5 low-tonnage stampings plants in
the UK and France to Sonas Group now positions Wagon firmly
in higher value larger stampings and complex assemblies for
body-in-white. Within CSBG, Wagon’s new plant in Atessa,
Italy, began serial production of roll-formed space-frame
sections and assemblies for certain body-in-white elements
of the Fiat Ducato light commercial vehicle. CSBG’s Bursa plant
in Turkey is also experiencing significant growth with new
programme start-ups, new business wins and the transfer
of roll-forming capabilities to support the Ford Transit bumper
programme which was transferred from the UK during 2006.
In ISBG, production of the glass roof and shading system
module began in Wagon’s new plant in Orense, Spain, for
the Citroën C4 Picasso. In China, Wagon commissioned a
new plant near Shanghai which now produces lift buffers (Oleo)
and bay flush windows (ISBG). Wagon has also announced the
closure of its Fleurus plant in Belgium and of its Champigny
plant in France.
These changes to our industrial footprint as well as the
restructuring undertaken and nearing conclusion, together with
the relentless commercial and engineering efforts deployed to
secure future programmes, put Wagon in a stronger position
for 2007/08 and the mid-term future.
Launch of Mercedes-Benz Sprinter large van
BSBG’s contribution to the launch of the Mercedes-
Benz Sprinter and VW Crafter large vans in Germany
was a key achievement in 2006, demonstrating our
engineering and project management capabilities
for complex programmes. Wagon is one of the top
suppliers of body-in-white and structural modules
to Mercedes-Benz for this highly successful
commercial vehicle:
— 64 Stamped Parts and more than 50 die sets,
representing 28,000 tonnes of steel used per year
— 2 big robot cells with 14 robots, including gluing,
welding, clinching and roll hemming technologies
— 3 Wagon and ex-Wagon plants supply parts
and assemblies
— 45 different finished parts and modules including
large Class A (exterior) pressed parts and assemblies
— 35 trucks leave our Nagold plant every day to deliver
to Mercedes-Benz in Düsseldorf and Ludwigsfelde
Mercedes Sprinter and VW Crafter parts
Business Group
Review
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 14 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 15
Body Structures
Business Group (“BSBG”)
BSBG* supplies medium and
large steel stamped parts, large
sub-assemblies and complex
assemblies to European OEMs
and Tier 1s. The main technologies
involved are stamping, assembly
and painting.
*Post divestment to Sonas Group
BSBG comprises some
2,500 employees across
the following 6 plants:
– Bêlá (Czech Republic)
– Douai (France)
– Fontaine (France)
– Nagold (Germany)
– Orbec (France)
– Saint Florent (France)
BSBG
Key Customers include :
PSA
Daimler Chrysler
Renault-Nissan
VW Group
Ford Group
Fiat
Tier 1 suppliers
The key operational
priorities for BSBG during
2007/08 are to:
– Complete restructuring
and reap the benefits
– Reinforce the Wagon
Management System
– Grow short lead-time
“off-load” stamping sales
in existing plants
– Establish broader
manufacturing footprint
in low-cost countries
– Improve relationships
with its main customers
Sales
£298m
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 15 16 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Closure Systems
Business Group (“CSBG”)
Business Group Review
continued
CSBG supplies products requiring
significant design and engineering
content, such as closures, hinges,
sliding doors, mechanisms and
impact management systems.
The main technologies involved
are roll-forming, stretch-bending,
precision stamping (including fine
blanking) and mechanical assembly.
Sales
CSBG comprises some
3,200 employees across
the following 12 plants:
– Atessa (Italy)
– Brownhills (United
Kingdom)
– Bursa (Turkey)
– Champigny (France)
– Essômes (France)
– Fiano (Italy)
– Fleurus (Belgium)
– Gérardmer (France)
– Sainte Gauburge (France)
– Saint Pierre (France)
– Waldaschaff (Germany)
– Wixom (USA)
CSBG
Key Customers include:
PSA
Ford Group
Renault-Nissan
VW Group
Tier 1 suppliers
Fiat
Daimler Chrysler
The key operational
priorities for CSBG during
2007/08 are to:
– Complete restructuring
and reap the benefits
– Reinforce the Wagon
Management System
– Establish broader
manufacturing footprint
in low-cost countries
– Maximise new
programme wins and
value in growth
applications for roll-
forming: sliding door
systems & roll-formed
structural BiW parts for
large commercial &
other vehicles
– Expand the customer
base and grow sales
outside of France
– Innovate to differentiate
the products, and achieve
higher margins
Combining strengths in Rails (Wagon) &
Mechanisms (Oxford) leads to a substantial
new programme win.
Car manufacturers are increasingly adopting sliding
doors in response to consumer demand for easier
vehicle access (e.g. for small children) and to avoid
damaging the doors when opening them in confined
spaces. Wagon is the European leader designing and
supplying a system of rails and mechanisms for
sliding doors. In addition to ongoing programmes for
Fiat, GM, Iveco, PSA and Renault, in 2006/7 Wagon
was awarded the contract to develop and supply the
new Ford Fusion which will be equipped with sliding
doors for the first time.
£323m
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  09:56  Page 16 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 17
ISBG comprises 550
employees across the
following 4 plants:
– Bressuire (France)
– Orense (Spain)
– Pförring (Germany)
– Shanghai (China)
ISBG
Key Customers include:
Daimler Chrysler
Renault-Nissan
VW
Audi
Fiat
BMW
Hyundai
PSA
The key priorities for
ISBG during 2007/08
are to:
– Reinforce the Wagon
Management System
– Manage a successful
ramp-up of the new
plant in Shanghai
– Build and commission
a new plant in Romania
– Expand the customer
base and grow sales
outside of France
(particularly in Germany)
– Innovate to create new
products, differentiate
existing products, and
achieve higher margins
Innovative Solutions
Business Group (“ISBG”)
ISBG provides research, product
development & customisation
and manufacturing of bay flush
windows, glass roof systems,
shading systems and cargo
management equipment. The
main technologies involved are
assembly and integration of parts.
Sales
Wagon brings innovation to the boot of Audi’s
upmarket Q7 SUV
Each consumer is different. In the 99 years since the first
Model T Ford was produced, car manufacturers have
come a long way to satisfy individual preferences. ISBG
contributes to offering individual choice by inventing and
designing optional features proposed by OEMs to the end
customer. A new and growing product range for ISBG is
cargo management: optional fixtures and rails for the car
boot which allow customers who like things to be neat
and tidy to organise the space in the boot and prevent
objects from shifting around. ISBG partners with OEMs
to give customers the choice.
£47 m
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 17 18 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Wagon Management System
The five Wagon Strategic Initiatives
form the enlarged Group’s
Management System, and each
of the initiatives is headed up by one
of the Traverse Function Directors.
The initiatives are:
— Safety First
— Wagon Customer Focus
— Wagon Excellence System
— Wagon People Empowerment
— Wagon Supplier Development
Safety First
The aim of Safety First is to create and develop a
positive safety culture and a safe and healthy working
environment, which is consistent with good overall
performance at our sites.
Business Group Review
continued
We have been very encouraged
by our progress in the Wagon
Management System
programmes during the year,
and in particular with the
enthusiasm of engagement
by the former Oxford plants
in Safety First and
Wagon Excellence.
Pierre Vareille
Group Chief Executive
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 18 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 19
Safety First
Safety is the first priority in
Wagon. The target is to
achieve zero tolerance
of accidents, through the
implementation of a
continuous risk management
cycle involving the regular reporting
of accidents, immediate follow-up and
training, and the sharing of best practice
and learning experiences across
the Group.
— 35% reduction in Lost Time Accidents
— 3 plants with no Lost Time Accidents
in the year
— a good achievement with further
improvements required
Wagon Supplier Development
The development of well-
defined and constructive
relations with suppliers is
a key success factor in the
automotive industry. It is
a pre-requisite to sustain
a continuous improvement
process on the cost, quality
and logistics from material and services
suppliers. The WSD strategic initiative
draws the framework for the relationship
with our suppliers with the construction
of the supplier panel: application of
standard supplier selection criteria and
business award rules across Wagon.
WSD key success factors include:
— supplier viability and quality control
— competition purchasing practicies
— low cost country sourcing
Wagon People Empowerment
People empowerment is one
of the foundation stones for
all Wagon strategic initiatives.
In particular all members of
Wagon’s management are
responsible for the
application of Safety First,
Wagon Excellence System and Wagon
Supplier Development, which will lead
to the development of a Wagon
Customer Focus culture.People
empowerment means:
– Organisation
– Development
– Involvement
Key elements of WPE include:
— organising plants into automonous
production units led by production
supervisors and team leaders
— the regular appraisal of employee
performance
— providing employees with
responsibility in a stimulating
environment
Wagon Customer Focus
Organic growth is paramount
in our industry. And the order
intake is one of the very few
keys to ensure the success of
our company. To achieve our
ambitious goals, we need to
foster excellent commercial
relationships with all our
customers and to improve cross-selling
between the countries in which we
operate. Moreover, our new organisation
reinforces the need for better communica-
tions with and coordination of our sales
forces through- out Europe and the USA.
Last but by no means least, we must
improve our commercial KPIs and develop
a focussed commercial strategy.
The Wagon Customer Focus (WCF)
initiative will help us deliver the required
improvements. It involves:
— defining our commercial strategy
— developing marketing plans to
anticipate market trends and OEM
strategies
Wagon Excellence System
This initiative is about lean
manufacturing and lean
engineering, enhanced
quality, reduced inventory
and improved cost structure
in plants.
It was created to ensure that all of our
plants run as efficiently as possible
and it is a fundamental requirement of
running a plant within Wagon that the
WES principles are fully embraced.
Key highlights in the year:
— enthusiastic application across
former Oxford plants
— productivity improvements of £7.2
million at operating profit level
— internal quality measures improved
by 30%
— good contribution to working
capital control
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 19 20 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
In the following narrative, where comparatives are indicated
as “2007” or “2006”, those numbers are as per the face of the
financial statements. Where indicated as “2007 p/f” or “2006
p/f”, they are pro forma numbers from the table on page 21,
and represent the continuing businesses of the Group – ie
including the businesses acquired with Oxford Automotive,
and excluding the businesses disposed of to Sonas.
Sales and profit before financing costs, including non-
recurring items
Pro forma sales from Manufacturing operations were lower at
£613.0 million (2006 p/f: £642.4 million) due to reduced volumes,
particularly with French OEMs. Pro forma sales from Tooling
were £45.5 million (2006 p/f: £73.1 million), the reduction due
principally to the completion of major projects in the prior year.
Engineering Consulting reflects the residual prior year sales
(2006: £2.3 million) for the Hawtal Whiting business disposed
of in August 2005.
At £17.2 million, the pro forma underlying operating profit grew
by £3.0 million following productivity improvements arising
from the application of the Wagon Management System across
the enlarged Group, and effective cost management. The pro
forma operating loss of £58.1 million reflects the previously
announced restructuring activity in the Group following the
acquisition of Oxford Automotive.
Restructuring costs of £66.0 million were charged to the
income statement in the year following the acquisition of
Oxford Automotive in April 2006. Post acquisition, Wagon
launched its anticipated integration plan, resulting in
restructuring activity at Operational Centres and Plants.
Restructuring costs related to the combination and re-sizing
of the French Operational Centres and industrial restructuring
involving production transfers between sites and headcount
rationalisation. As previously announced, the Group restructuring
will see its headcount reduced by around 1,000 employees
when completed.
Financial
Review
Richard Cotton
Group Finance Director
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 20 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 21
The pro forma underlying
operating profit grew by £3.0
million following productivity
improvements arising from the
application of the Wagon
Management System across
the enlarged Group, and
effective cost management.
A £9.3 million non-recurring charge was recognised in respect
of an impairment of assets at the Fontaine site in France, in line
with the expected volumes of the Peugeot 307cc for the
remainder of its programme life. The Group has secured the
order for the successor model to the 307cc to be built at Fontaine.
Disposal of part of the former Metal Component
Business Group
As previously reported the Group disposed of five low-tonnage
stampings plants and associated assets and liabilities on 5
December 2006 to Sonas Group. The plants disposed of were
Tyseley and Wantage in the UK, and Beaucourt, Bessines and
La Souterraine in France. The headline consideration was
£10.2 million, giving rise to a loss on disposal of £26.4 million.
Fleurus
On 26 December 2006, the Group disposed of the property and
some equipment of the Fleurus plant to a local Belgian company,
for a consideration ofv1.0. The Wagon business produced
there was transferred to Waldaschaff, Sainte Gauburge and
Bursa, with the exception of two programmes which were
close to the end of their life cycle. On completion of these
programmes, the remaining Wagon personnel will transfer
to the acquirer.
Financing Costs
Net interest charges excluding the preference share dividend
and non-recurring finance costs were £9.5 million (2006: £4.5
million). The preference share dividend was £1.5 million (2006:
£1.5 million), bringing total net pre-exceptional financing costs
to £11.0 million (2006: £6.0 million). A further £1.9 million of
non-recurring finance charges were incurred in relation to the
Group’s Banking arrangements.
Taxation
The total taxation credit for the year was £4.2 million
representing a credit on non-recurring items of £6.1 million
offset by a charge on underlying operating results of £1.9
million (2006: £4.1 million charge on operating results). The
underlying tax charge as a percentage of the underlying profit
before taxation was 45.2% (2006: 27.9%). The effective rate
this year is distorted by the low underlying profit in the year.
The underlying rate for the next two years is, in line with recent
years, projected to be lower than the UK standard rate, primarily
due to the mix of where profits are forecast to be earned.
Earnings per share
Basic loss per share was (84.8)p (2006: basic earnings per
share of 19.9p). We have also presented underlying earnings
per share, which excludes the impact of restructuring costs,
loss on disposal of the plants to Sonas Group, asset impairment
and exceptional finance charges. Underlying earnings per share
were lower at 2.0p (2006 p/f: 22.2p).
‘‘
‘‘
2007 p/f 2006 p/f
Year to 31 March (unaudited)
Manufacturing £613.0m £642.4m
Tooling & Prototypes £45.5m £73.1m
Engineering Consulting – £2.3m
Total Sales £658.5m £717.8m
Underlying operating profit * £17.2m £14.2m
Operating (loss)/profit £(58.1)m £10.2m
Underlying Operating Cash Flow* £62.0m £46.9m
Operating Cash Flow £45.2m £49.4m
*Before impairment, restructuring costs loss on disposal
of operations and MG Rover costs.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 21 22 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Financial Review
continued
Dividends
Given the uncertain market conditions and balancing business
opportunities and operational restructuring commitments, the
Board considers it prudent to recommend a reduced final dividend
of 1.0p per ordinary share, making 5.0p for the year (2006: 9.0p),
which will be paid on 6 September 2007 to members on the
register at close of business on 10 August 2007.
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to elect for a scrip
dividend in lieu of the cash dividend – shareholder approval for
this will be sought at the AGM. In future the Company intends
to align dividends more closely to earnings, targeting cover
of two times normalised earnings.
Cash flow and net debt
The Group generated a pro forma underlying operating cashflow
of £62.0 million cash (2006 p/f: £46.9 million). The pro forma
operating cashflow was £45.2 million (2006 p/f: £49.4 million),
reflecting the restructuring cashflow in the year.
Capital expenditure
Pro forma capital expenditure at £49.6 million was similar to
the prior year (2006 p/f: £45.5 million). Deferred engineering
costs in respect of major development programmes amounting
to £3.9 million (2006: £3.8 million) were also incurred. The
accounting policy of capitalising such costs with subsequent
amortisation against future revenues, matches costs with the
revenues they generate.
Net debt
Net debt, excluding the debt proportion of the preference
shares, was £94.6 million at the year end (2006: £44.1 million)
in part financing the restructuring programmes resulting from
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, as anticipated. Net debt
including the preference shares was £108.6 million (2006:
£58.1 million).
Further details of the Group’s funding arrangements are set
out below.
Treasury and management of financial risk
The Group has a central treasury function that operates within
clear policies and guidelines, approved by the Board and
designed to reduce the major treasury related risks. The main
risks are related to funding (liquidity), interest rate and foreign
exchange exposures. Control and reporting systems exist
to ensure compliance with the policies, and speculative
transactions are not permitted. There have been no changes
in the year to the major financial risks faced by the Group, nor
in the way in which they are managed.
Sales Bridge 2005/06 to 2006/07*
642.4
£m
2005/06
613.0
£m
2006/07
PSA
G9
15.0
*Pro forma basis: Wagon & Oxford combined less disposal to Sonas (unaudited)
Fiat
Ducato
10.7
NCV3
15.8
307cc
(17.0)
AO8
(5.5)
Espace
(4.4)
Other
(20.5)
Price
(10.2) Steel
(13.3)
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 22 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 23
Funding
The Group’s policy is to maintain adequate committed facilities
to meet its expected funding needs, whilst aiming to manage
cash resources efficiently. Following agreement on heads
of terms of a refinancing with its Lenders on 7 June 2007, the
Group has aggregate multi-currency facilities ofv246.4 million
to 31 December 2008, which is referred to in note 15. As part
of this refinancing, interest and fees have increased from the
previous levels and the fee structure includes the issue to
lenders of warrants over unissued ordinary shares in the capital
of Wagon plc. The warrants are exercisable in cash at a price
of 25p for each ordinary share (being the nominal value of each
ordinary share) and convert into a total of 5,758,664 ordinary
shares (adjusted, as appropriate, pursuant to certain anti-
dilution provisions) representing approximately 4.99% of
Wagon’s issued ordinary share capital. In addition, further
uncommitted facilities have been made available to Group
operating companies.
The Group’s net borrowings before preference share debt at
31 March 2007, of £94.6 million, comprised gross borrowings
of £163.1 million, offset by cash balances of £68.5 million.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its exposure to short term
interest rate movements through the use of derivative
contracts where appropriate. At the year end, 41% of the
Group’s borrowings were protected by instruments providing
fixed or capped interest rates.
Foreign currency risk
The vast majority of the Group’s transactions are conducted
within the ‘euro zone’, and therefore relatively few cross
currency transactions occur. Where they do arise, our policy
is to hedge the exposure primarily by using forward exchange
contracts executed at either the point of commitment, or
where there is a high confidence of future commitment.
Group policy is to hedge a proportion of the overseas net assets
and operating profits translation exposure by foreign currency
borrowings. At 31 March 2007 this hedge represented 44%
of the related net assets. Further information regarding the
financial assets and liabilities is detailed in the financial statements.
Research, development and engineering
Gross research, development and engineering expenditure in
the year of £22.4 million (2006: £14.5 million) was in excess of
3% of turnover as in the prior year, reflecting the Group’s ongoing
commitment to innovation and the development of new products
and processes.
Pensions
The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan in the UK
and, in common with many other UK pension schemes, the
assets of the plan are appropriately balanced between equities
and gilts/bonds. The Plan showed a deficit of £21.8 million
before deferred tax at 31 March 2006, calculated on an IAS 19
basis. This deficit had reduced to £15.4 million before deferred
tax as of 31 March 2007, due to improved asset investment
performance, and the progressive recovery of the deficit by
enhanced contributions from the Company.
The Board has reviewed the position of the Plan in consultation
with the Trustees and actuary of the scheme and remains
committed to the continued support of the Plan for the benefit
of existing members. The scheme was closed to new entrants
with effect from February 2002. The last full actuarial valuation
of the scheme was conducted at 5 April 2005, and the Company
and the Trustees are in the process of agreeing a new actuarial
valuation as at 5 April 2006.
Acquisitions
Oxford Automotive
As previously reported in the financial statements for the year
ended 31 March 2006 Wagon completed the purchase of
Oxford Automotive ApS on 7 April 2006. The acquisition price
reported in the previous financial statements was £128.4
million satisfied through the issue of ordinary shares. The share
price of Wagon increased from 206p to 248p between the
announcement of the acquisition and the completion date and
also a number of legal and advisory costs were capitalised as
part of the acquisition. These brought the final acquisition costs
to £166.2 million.
Richard Cotton
Group Finance Director
7 June 2007
Operating Profit Bridge** 2005/06* to 2006/07*
14.2
£m
2005/06
17.2
£m
2006/07
WES
Produc-
tivity
7.2
Claims
0.9
Over-
heads
6.0
Other
manufac-
turing
6.1
Price
(10.3)
Volume
(6.9)
* Pro forma basis: Wagon & Oxford combined less disposal to Sonas unaudited
**Underlying operating profit before impairment, restructuring costs, loss on disposal
of operations and MG Rover costs
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 23 24 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Christopher Clark (65)
Chairman
Non-Executive Chairman of Associated British Ports Holdings
Ltd, Severstal and Urenco Limited. He previously held a
number of senior international roles with Johnson Matthey plc,
culminating in his appointment as Chief Executive in 1998, a
post he held until his retirement in 2004. Until February 2006
he was the Deputy Chairman of Rexam plc and a Non-Executive
Director of FKI plc. Appointed to the Board in July 2005.
(Committee 4*)
Richard Cotton (46)
Group Finance Director
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants, having graduated from Kingston University and
Montpellier Business School. He was Group Finance Director
of McLeod Russel Holdings plc until it was taken over by SPX,
after which he was VP General Manager of the merged
business. Previously he held a number of senior finance roles
in international companies, including Finance Director of British
Aluminium, and Planning Director of Alcoa Europe. He was
appointed to the Board in April 2005. (Committee 1)
John Rennocks (61)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. He is
Chairman of Diploma plc, Nestor plc as well as Non-Executive
Director of Babcock Group International plc, JP Morgan Overseas
Investment Trust plc, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc
and Senior Independent Director and deputy Chairman of
Inmarsat Plc. He has worked in senior executive posts for
Corus Group plc, British Steel plc, PowerGen plc and Smith
& Nephew plc. Appointed to the Board in September 2002.
(Committees 2*,3, 4)
Wilbur Ross, Jr. (69)
Non-Executive Director
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of WL Ross & Co., LLC,
a private equity firm and also the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of a number of private equity funds. He is the Chairman
of International Coal Group, Inc., International Automobile
Components Group SL and International Textile Group Inc.,
and a board member of Mittal Steel Company, among other
companies. He previously served as the Executive Managing
Director at Rothschild Inc. and currently is a board member
of the Japan Society and the Yale University School of
Management. Appointed to the Board on 7 April 2006.
(Committee 4)
Board of Directors
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 24 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 25
Pierre Vareille (49)
Group Chief Executive
Pierre Vareille was appointed to the Board in May 2004 as Chief
Executive. He was formerly President of Pechiney’s Aluminium
Conversion business group, and Senior Vice President of Alcan,
Inc. He has previously worked for the Vallourec Group, GFI
Aerospace and Faurecia in different positions encompassing
significant international responsibility. He studied at the Ecole
Centrale de Paris, a leading engineering academic institution,
and he also holds various degrees in economics and finance
(Sorbonne University, Institut de Contrôle de Gestion, Institut
des Etudes Politiques). (Committee 1*)
Rolf Zimmermann (60)
Non-Executive Director
Rolf Zimmerman has run his own consulting company since 2002
and is the Managing Partner of Atlantic European Partners, an
investment company specialising in restructuring. He is also CEO
of Muller Weingarten AG and a Director of Columbus Acquisition
Corporaton. Trained as a mechanical engineer, he has over thirty-
five years’ experience in the automotive industry, most recently
within Ford from 1997 as VP for European Manufacturing, and,
from 1998, CEO of Ford Germany and Corporate VP of the Ford
Motor Company. Previously, he held various management
positions in manufacturing at Opel AG, General Motors and
Skoda. Appointed to the Board on 7 April 2006.
(Committees 2, 3*, 4)
Sue Lyons OBE (54)
Non-Executive Director
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, Fellow of the
Institute of Electrical Engineers, Fellow of the City and Guilds
Institute and Visiting Fellow at the University of Warwick.
Honourary Doctorate of Science (Engineering), Imperial
College, London and awarded the European Woman of
Achievement Award in 1999. She worked for Rolls-Royce plc
for over twenty years and was managing director of Rolls-
Royce Defence (Europe). She is a Non-Executive Director
at National Express Group plc. Appointed to the Board in July
2002. (Committees 2, 3, 4)
Jens Höhnel (59)
Non-Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer and President Europe of International
Automotive Components Group (“IAC”) since its formation in
March 2006. He has over 30 years experience of the international
automotive supplier industry. Since 1990 he has held senior
management roles including Managing Director of Becker
Group Europe, Managing Director of Johnson Controls Interiors
GmbH and Managing Director of Collins & Aikman Europe, prior
to becoming CEO of IAC when Collins and Aikman Europe was
acquired by WL Ross & Co., LLC, and Franklin Mutual Advisers
LLC in 2006. Appointed to the Board on 27 March 2007.
Key to Board Committees:
1. Executive
2. Audit
3. Remuneration
4. Nomination
*Chairman
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 25 26 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Frédéric Babin (46)
Frédéric Babin joined Wagon in January 2005 as Group HR
Director. Prior to joining Wagon he held similar positions
with C.A.T (a French company with international logistics
operations for OEMs) and for the healthcare division of Air
Liquide. He has a Batchelor of Laws degree from University
of Paris II (Assas) and a Master of Laws degree from University
of Paris I (Panthéon-Sorbonne).
François Bernès (40)
François Bernès joined Wagon in March 2006 as Business Group
Director with responsibility for the Innovative Solutions Business
Group. Prior to joining Wagon, he held different management
positions at Sagem and Johnson Controls International. He later
joined Vinci Energies as General Manager of the energy and
telecommunications sector. He graduated from the Ecole
Centrale de Paris.
Christian Bogeat (47)
Christian Bogeat joined Oxford in December 2003 as Senior Vice
President in charge of Marketing and Sales. Prior to joining
Oxford, he worked for eight years in the Valeo group where he
started as Project Manager in electronics before being appointed
as Sales and Marketing Director of the passenger compartment
security division and the Plant Manager and Project Director for
the Switches and Detection Systems Division. He is a fellow
student of the National Institute of Telecommunications.
Olivier Chapelle (42)
Olivier Chapelle joined Wagon in November 2004 as Business
Group Director with responsibility for the Engineered Structures
Business Group. Prior to joining Wagon, he spent 2 years with
Faurecia, an automotive industry Tier 1 supplier, as Division Vice
President. Before that, he spent 7 years with Owens Corning Inc,
where his last role was as Sales and Marketing Director for its
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) Composites business.
He graduated from Louvain-La-Neuve with a Mechanical
Engineering Degree and from the Solvay Business School
with a MBA.
Xavier Dessemond (43)
Xavier Dessemond joined Wagon in February 2005 as Group
Purchasing Director. Prior to joining Wagon, he spent 16 years
with Valeo, a Tier 1 automotive supplier, ultimately as Purchasing
Director with Valeo Lighting Systems (2003–2005) and before
that in different purchasing functions, including in Germany and
Japan. In his current role he is responsible for all purchasing
activities across the Group and in charge of the deployment of
the Wagon Supplier Development strategic initiative. He holds
an engineering degree and an MBA.
Sean Farrell (36)
Sean Farrell joined Wagon in June 2006 as Group Strategy and
Corporate Development Director. Prior to joining Wagon, he
spent over 10 years helping companies across industries with
strategic issues, acquisitions and divestments as a consultant
for Mercer Management Consulting and Braxton Associates. He
graduated with a Masters degree in Manufacturing Engineering
from Cambridge University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Jonathan Jowett (44)
Jonathan Jowett joined Wagon in January 2005 as Group Legal
Director and Company Secretary. Prior to joining Wagon, he held
similar roles with SSL International plc (1999-2004, consumer
healthcare) and The Alumasc Group plc (1997-1999, engineering
and building products). In his current role he, is responsible for all
legal and corporate administrative matters across the Group.
He has a Batchelor of Laws degree from Huddersfield Polytechnic
(1985), and a Master of Laws degree from the University of
Leicester (1999). He was admitted as a Solicitor of the Supreme
Court of England and Wales in 1989.
François Liotard (39)
François Liotard joined Wagon in February 2001 as Operations
Support Manager. He is currently employed as Group Industrial
Development Director. In this role, he is responsible for the
Safety First and Wagon Excellence System initiatives, as
well as for quality and the manufacturing footprint. Prior to joining
Wagon, he held several management positions in Operations
(Production, Quality, Maintenance) with Steelcase, ARIES, Valeo
and IBM. He was educated at the Ecole Nationale Supérieure
des Arts et Metiers engineering school (1990) and the Institut
de Contrôle de Gestion (2000).
Pierre Vareille, Group Chief Executive
and Richard Cotton, Group Finance
Director are also members of the
Executive Committee and are
featured on page 24 and 25.
Executive Committee
& Company Secretary
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:21  Page 26 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 27
François Bernès
Business Group Director: ISBG
Olivier Chapelle
Business Group Director: CSBG
Sean Farrell
Group Strategy and Corporate
Development Director
Frédéric Babin
Group HR Director
Christian Bogeat
Group Marketing and Sales
Co-ordination Director
Xavier Dessemond
Group Purchasing Director
François Liotard
Group Industrial
Development Director
Jonathan Jowett
Group Legal Director
and Company Secretary
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  18:41  Page 27 28 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The Directors present their report, together with the financial
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Activities and business review
The principal activities of Wagon plc and its subsidiaries, together
with a review of the businesses, are set out on pages 4 to 23.
Financial results and dividends
The Group financial review for the year ended 31 March 2007
is set out on pages 20 to 23 and the Group consolidated income
statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 is set out on page 46.
Dividends of £1.5 million were paid in respect of the 7.25p (net)
convertible participating preference shares. An interim dividend
of 4.0p was paid to ordinary shareholders on 16 February 2007.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.0p per
ordinary share be declared payable on 6 September 2007, to
members on the register at close of business on 10 August
2007, making a total dividend for the year of 5.0p per ordinary
share (2006: 9.0p per ordinary share).
As was stated in the prospectus dated 13 March 2006 issued
in connection with the acquisition of Oxford Automotive ApS,
the Board declared a second interim dividend for the 2005/06
financial year of 5.0p per ordinary share. This was paid on 6
September 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 31 March
2006. Accordingly no final dividend was paid for the year ended
31 March 2006.
Directors
The members of the Board at the date of this report are shown
on pages 24 and 25.
Mr Hervé Guillaume, Mr Sarkis Kalyandjian, Mr Wilbur Ross
and Mr Rolf Zimmermann were appointed to the Board as Non-
Executive Directors at the Extraordinary General Meeting held
on 6 April 2006, with effect from 7 April 2006. On 27 March 2007
Mr Hervé Guillaume and Mr Sarkis Kalyandjian resigned from
the Board and Mr Jens Höhnel was appointed to the Board as
a Non-Executive Director.
The Directors as at 31 March 2007 and their interests in the share
capital and options of the Company are detailed in the Directors’
Report on Remuneration on pages 32 to 37.
In accordance with the articles of association, the Directors
retiring at the Annual General Meeting will be Mr Jens Höhnel,
having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting,
and Mr Pierre Vareille, retiring by rotation. Being eligible,
Mr Höhnel offers himself for election and Mr Vareille offers
himself for re-election. Biographical details for Mr Höhnel and
Mr Vareille are set out on page 25. The Board considers that, as
evidenced by his biographical details, Mr Höhnel brings to the
Board a high level of experience in the international automotive
supplier industry.
Employees
The Group is conscious that its employees are key contributors
to its success. The Group therefore encourages good
communications and employee relations across all of its
operations by utilising practices developed in each operating unit
which are compatible with local circumstances and individual
national legislation.
The Group’s senior management is kept abreast of developments
in financial, commercial, strategic and human resource matters
and is thereby able to inform and consult with employees as
appropriate. This is done by a series of regular telephone calls,
written briefings, and ad hoc conferences.
The Group monitors employee attendance very seriously and
whilst recognising that illness is a human condition potentially
affecting all employees, it manages persistent absence where
this does not appear to be the case. Absence is defined for the
purposes of monitoring as time employees are not present at
work due to sickness or accidents in the workplace. Each site
has its own monthly target defined by the Executive Committee,
who may review the targets at any time during the year. During
2006/07 there has been a greater focus on achieving set targets
through a programme of communication to all employees on
the internal procedures concerning illness. The management
team has been involved in this process and action plans are
closely monitored by the Executive Committee. The six month
rolling average of absence as at 31 March 2007 was 3.9%
(2006: 4%), considerably higher than the target of 2.5%.
The main reason for not achieving the target was the on-going
re-organisation and restructuring across the Group.
The Group continues to consult with its European Works Council
(called the Wagon European Forum). This body and its Select
(or management) Committee have provided a useful additional
mechanism for sharing information and consulting with employees.
The Group also recognises its responsibilities to ensure the fair
treatment of all of its employees in accordance with national
legislation applicable to the territories within which it operates.
Equal opportunities for appropriate training, career development
and promotion are available to all employees regardless of any
physical disability or their gender, religion, race or nationality. In
particular, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities, the Group
gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment
received from disabled persons.
Pension arrangements in each of the countries in which the Group
operates are maintained in accordance with legislative
requirements, custom and practice and Group policy as appropriate.
Payment of creditors
Individual operating companies within the Group are responsible
for establishing and adhering to appropriate policies for the
payment of their suppliers. The Group does not follow any code
or standard on payment practice but it is the Group’s policy that,
provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms and
conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of
all required documentation, payment will be made in accordance
with the agreed terms. It is the Group’s policy to ensure that
suppliers know the terms on which payments will take place
when transactions are agreed. In the UK, the Group agrees
payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding
purchase contracts. At 31 March 2007 the number of creditor
days outstanding for the Company was 30.
Directors’ Report
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 28 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 29
Social responsibility
The Group recognises the importance of social, environmental
and ethical (SEE) matters and the Group continues to work
towards compliance with the ABI disclosure guidelines on
social responsibility.
The Directors are satisfied that they have received adequate
information in order to make an assessment of the risks to the
Group’s short and long term value arising from SEE matters and
that the key business risks pertaining to the Group, of which SEE
matters form part, have been identified. These risks are
reviewed on a regular basis and account is taken of the potential
impact to the business and its stakeholders resulting from any
such risks. A key part of this process is the achievement of
recognised accreditations such as ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001
(on which subject see below), preparation of monthly reports to
the Group’s Executive Committee and the implementation of a
costed annual plan for proposed areas for improvement in each
financial year.
The Group has put in place formal processes for the management
of significant risks which have been identified and, as a result
of the formal reports provided by the Business Groups, the
Directors are aware of the cost and resources involved in
managing these risks.
All operating units are encouraged to achieve formal accreditation
as to the adequacy of the systems and procedures in place to
manage workplace risks. This includes the environmental
standards ISO 14001 or the eco-management audit scheme
‘EMAS’ accreditation. In the year to 31 March 2007 all plants had
achieved accreditation under ISO 14001and the health and safety
standard Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series
(OHSAS) 18001.
The Group has continued its focus on health and safety in all of
its plants and offices. The “Safety First” initiative was the first
initiative to be launched in the Group following the appointment
of Mr Vareille as Chief Executive in May 2004. Every facility is
subject to regular monitoring and reporting of its safety performance
as against key indicators. The Group’s formal health, safety and
environmental policy requires each Business Group to take
responsibility at a local level for establishing and maintaining
appropriate standards of health, safety and environmental
management, but with increased attention and visibility of
performance for the Group’s executive management. Internal
policies and procedures address a wide range of issues,
including the importance of formal risk assessments and the
development of local policies which reflect the requirements
of the laws and regulations in each territory.
Each Group plant is required to prepare an annual health, safety
and environmental plan with formal objectives intended to
continuously improve upon practices and standards. The areas
for improvement must be costed and adequate provision made
within the plant budget to accommodate required expenditure.
In addition, every month, the progress of each plant is reviewed
to confirm the progress made on addressing the plan and advise
how the objectives are being satisfied.
Each plant is also required to undertake regular audits of health,
safety and environmental practices. The plant can conduct such
audits using either internal resources or external consultants.
The findings from these audits and responses are reported to
the Executive Committee and are also monitored by the Board.
In addition, each week, the Executive Committee receives a
report summarising accidents and incidents which have occurred
during the preceding week, and these reports are then subject
to a monthly review.
The Group undertakes thorough environmental reviews as part
of its due diligence process when assessing potential acquisitions.
The procedure for verification of SEE matters lies within the
Group’s risk management framework and verification is
conducted by both internal resources and external auditors
as described in the Corporate Governance Report.
Risk Factors
The Directors present below their review of the principal risks
and uncertainties facing the business.
If any of the following risks actually materialise, Wagon’s business,
financial condition, prospects and share price could be materially
and adversely affected to the detriment of Wagon and its
shareholders. Further risks which are not presently known to
the Directors or that the Directors currently deem immaterial,
may also have a material effect on Wagon’s business, financial
condition and operating results. The Directors consider the
following risks to be the most significant for investors, but the
risks listed do not necessarily comprise all those associated with
an investment in the Company.
1. Business risks
1.1 Ability to win or maintain market share
There are no assurances that Wagon’s competitiveness will
improve or that it will win any additional market share from
any of its competitors or maintain the existing market shares.
Wagon’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly
to new or emerging technologies and changes in customers’
requirements and/or demands. Existing and/or increased
competition could adversely affect Wagon’s market share and
materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and
operating results. It may be that competition will intensify
and force Wagon to reduce the price of its products, which
could adversely affect its business, financial condition and
operating results.
1.2 Dependence on key customers and programmes
Wagon will be dependent on four key customers which, for the
year ended 31 March 2007, accounted for approximately 70%
of Wagon’s revenue. The loss of one or more of its key customers
or discontinuation of supply to a key programme of one of its
customers could result in lower than expected turnover. In
addition, there are risks that Wagon may, for any reason, be
placed on business hold with existing, or new customers and
Wagon may not be allowed to tender for new projects and its
customers could decide not to award new orders to Wagon.
Wagon’s relationships with customers is such that in certain
circumstances, and in common with automotive industry
practice, a customer may require Wagon to reprice its products
(‘’price downs’’). Wagon has some level of protection against
these price downs in the form of stated procedures in contracts,
however the Directors cannot be certain as to the future level of
these price downs. Customers may also require Wagon to pass
on to them any benefits achieved through synergies, in particular
any price reductions on steel or raw materials more generally.
1.3 Dependence on vehicle volumes
The automotive OEM supply chain is dependent on consumer
demand for newly manufactured automotive vehicles. Accordingly,
Wagon’s success depends on the manufacturers’ vehicle designs,
marketing, reputation and management to generate demand and
hence volume.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 29 30 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report
continued
1.4 Technological change
The automotive OEM supply chain in which Wagon operates
is subject to technological change and changes in customer
requirements. Wagon needs to be able to maintain or enhance
the competitive value of its products and develop and introduce
new products or technologies successfully. Wagon cannot
guarantee that it will successfully develop these types of
products or technologies.
1.5 Dependence on key suppliers for materials and services
Wagon has only a small number of suppliers for certain materials
and services. It may be difficult to resource such materials or
services if suppliers do not continue to supply Wagon. For any
reason Wagon’s suppliers may refuse or not be able to continue
to sell products on existing terms (or at all). Wagon may find that
it is unable to purchase stock in appropriate quantities on terms
acceptable to it in the future. Its operations would also be
adversely affected by the lack of availability or late delivery of
products or by other problems in the supply chain. Should any
supplier fail to supply the components needed by Wagon or be
unable to supply materials or services in a timely manner, Wagon
could experience delays in manufacturing its own products and
may have to invest resources in finding an alternative supplier.
Should Wagon be unable to find an alternative supplier quickly, it
could suffer significant interruption in the supply of components
needed to manufacture its products.
1.6 Prices of raw materials
Wagon’s profitability may be reduced due to increases in the
price of raw materials, including energy. The principal raw
materials which are used in Wagon’s business are commodities
such as steel, aluminium and plastics, although the exposure
to price increases for aluminium and plastic is less than the
exposure to steel price fluctuations. These commodities
experience price volatility caused by external conditions,
demand, commodity market and currency fluctuations.
Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by these
factors. Increased costs may not always be recoverable by
Wagon from its customers.
1.7 Dependence on key operating facilities and equipment
Wagon services its customer base utilising a number of key
production lines within its manufacturing facilities across Europe.
The loss of one or more of these production lines and/or operating
facilities through, for example, equipment mechanical failure or
a natural event including, inter alia, flooding, fire or earthquake,
could potentially adversely affect Wagon’s ability to supply
products to its customers. Although Wagon has a level of
downside protection against such potential events in the form
of contingency planning, preventative maintenance programmes
and insurance liability cover, the Directors cannot be certain as
to the future level of the impact of such events.
2. Economic factors
2.1 Economic downturn
Wagon’s performance depends on a number of factors outside
its control which impact the automotive industry, including
political, economic and environmental conditions.
2.2 Currencies and interest rates
Wagon operates in, and sells products to, countries other than
the UK and conducts business in currencies other than UK
pounds sterling. In particular, Wagon’s principal operating
currency is the Euro. Material fluctuations in the exchange rate
of UK pounds sterling against the other currencies in which
Wagon transacts its business could have an adverse impact
on Wagon’s operations. Wagon’s interest costs in respect of
its borrowings will increase in the event of rising interest rates.
Rising interest rates may also have a more general effect upon
consumer confidence, resulting in lower demand in the
automotive sector, with a potential adverse effect upon
its financial performance.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 30 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 31
3. Risks relating to the Acquisition of Oxford Automotive ApS
Dependence on restructuring and synergies
An integral part of the success of the Oxford acquisition depends
on the subsequent reorganisation and restructuring of the
enlarged Group. If Wagon is unable to undertake the
reorganisation and the restructuring required in the time frame
and on the cost basis envisaged, it could adversely affect
Wagon’s business, financial condition and operating results.
The Directors’ expectations for the restructuring and synergy
benefits from the Oxford acquisition are highly dependent on
the planned reorganisation and restructuring being successfully
implemented in a timely and cost efficient manner, and synergy
benefits from the acquisition being achieved. As such, any
unforeseen circumstance or difficulty that would result in the
reorganisation and restructuring not going ahead on the time
frame or cost basis, or being impeded by labour law issues, social
unrest and/or an adverse court decision envisaged would have a
material adverse effect on Wagon’s business, financial condition
and operating results.
Charitable donations
The total charitable donations of the Group during the year
amounted to £4,000 (2006: £1,000). The Group does not make
any political donations.
Going concern
After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to
continue to operate for the foreseeable future and, consequently,
continue to use the going concern basis for preparing the
financial statements which follow.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s
auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps
that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Following a recommendation to the Board from the Audit
Committee, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit
plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Wagon plc – Ordinary Shareholders as at 06.06.07
Funds analysis – 3% shareholders Holding % Issue
Identified Holdings 06.06.07 115,388,378
Contrarian Capital Management LLC 17,494,627 15.16%
WL Ross & Co LLC 17,485,059 15.15%
Harbinger Capital Partners 12,077,354 10.47%
Harris Associates 8,637,400 7.49%
Legal & General
Investment Management 5,958,497 5.16%
Liontrust Asset Management 3,927,626 3.40%
M&G Investment Management 3,606,240 3.13%
UBS Willow 3,411,889 2.96%
Wagon plc – Preference Shareholders as at 06.06.07
Funds analysis – 3% shareholders Holding % Issue
Identified Holdings 06.06.07 20,269,159
New Star Asset Management 2,832,000 13.97%
Framlington Investment Management 1,795,000 11.32%
Wesleyan Assurance Society 2,217,000 10.94%
Artemis Unit Trust Managers 1,925,000 9.50%
By order of the Board
Jonathan Jowett
Company Secretary
7 June 2007
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 31 32 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The Directors present their Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 March 2007 produced in accordance with Schedule 7A
to the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July
2003 (the “Code”) with regard to the remuneration policy as
described below. In framing the remuneration policy, the
Remuneration Committee and the Board have given full
consideration to Section B of the Code.
Remuneration policy
The Board as a whole establishes remuneration policy. The
Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the
Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of
the Executive Directors. It also ratifies the Chief Executive’s
remuneration proposals for the members of the Executive
Committee and those members of the Company whose basic
salary is £100,000 pa or more.
The Committee also takes note of the remuneration policy and
details (as set by the Chief Executive) for those individuals whose
salary is over £50,000 pa, but below £100,000 pa.
The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is determined
by the Remuneration Committee after consultation with the Chief
Executive. The remuneration of the remaining Non-Executive
Directors is a matter for the Chairman of the Board in
consultation with the Chief Executive.
In determining the policy for the Executive Directors, the
Committee’s objective is to ensure that those individuals are
provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced
performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded
for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
With effect from 7 April 2006 the Remuneration Committee
comprised solely independent Non-Executive Directors, and
currently consists of Mr Zimmermann (Chairman), Ms Lyons and
Mr Rennocks. The Committee was chaired until 1 June 2006 by
Ms Lyons and then by Mr Kalyandjian from 1 June 2006 until his
resignation as a Non-Executive Director on 27 March 2007.
On 3 May 2007 Mr Zimmermann was appointed Chairman
of the Committee.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration
in a form and amount to attract, retain and motivate high quality
management. The importance of aligning the interests of
Directors and senior managers with shareholders is carefully
considered, particularly in the design of the performance-related
elements of their remuneration packages. The Committee has
used the services of the following advisers during the year:
Alithos
Long term incentive plan performance criteria monitoring
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow
UK Defined Benefit pension plan
Mercer Human Resource Consulting
Long term incentive plan
Pinsent Masons
Shares-based incentives & service agreements
CMS Bureau Francis Lefebvre
Impact of French law on shares-based incentives
Deloitte & Touche
UK tax advice
Taj
French tax advice
Watson Wyatt
UK actuarial advice
The use of advisers in the year related to detailed legal and tax
issues associated with extending the shares-based incentive
schemes to new jurisdictions. Otherwise, ad hoc advice has
been taken in relation to the various shares-based incentives,
and pension schemes issues.
Remuneration is reviewed in March each year and is established
with reference to the remuneration offered to senior executives
with similar roles, taking proper account of the particular
responsibilities, skills, performance and experience required for
the executive role within the Company. Market comparisons are
made with the assistance of remuneration surveys, including
specific surveys commissioned with external consultants
where appropriate.
The remuneration of Executive Directors consists of a number
of separate elements: base salary, a short term incentive plan
(annual cash bonus), car and fuel allowance, benefits in kind
(medical expenses insurance, life assurance, accident insurance
and permanent health insurance), long term equity incentives
and pension provision or allowance. A significant proportion of
the remuneration is performance-related through short and long
term equity incentives.
For the year to 31 March 2007, the recommendations of the
Remuneration Committee in respect of the remuneration
of Executive Directors and the Chairman were accepted by
the Board.
Remuneration Report
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 32 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 33
Directors’ remuneration
Basic salary 2007 2006
and fees Bonus Benefits Other Total Total
£££ £ ££
Executive:
R Cotton 250,000 – 22,339 62,500 334,839 289,199
P Vareille 400,000 – 35,178 120,000 555,178 626,424
Non-Executive
C R N Clark 130,000 –– – 130,000 67,436
H Guillaume
1
32,000 –– – 32,000 –
J Höhnel
2
– –– – ––
S Kalyandjian
3
37,000 –– – 37,000 –
S M Lyons 32,000 –– – 32,000 27,500
J L Rennocks 39,500 –– – 39,500 27,500
W L Ross
4
32,000 –– – 32,000 –
R C Wright
5
––– – – 34,834
R Zimmermann
6
32,000 –– – 32,000 –
Total 984,500 – 57,517 182,500 1,224,517 1,072,893
1
Appointed 7 April 2006 and resigned 27 March 2007
2
Appointed 27 March 2007
3
Appointed 7 April 2006 and resigned 27 March 2007
4
Appointed 7 April 2006
5
Retired 13 March 2006
6
Appointed 7 April 2006
The above table has been audited
Benefits
Mr Vareille received a car and fuel allowance of £2,118 (2006:
£7,120) and benefits in kind of £33,060 (2006: £43,135).
Mr Cotton received a car and fuel allowance of £15,000 (2006:
£14,326) and benefits in kind of £7,339 (2006: £995).
Under the terms of his service agreement Mr Vareille’s salary and
benefits are paid 75% in France (at a contractual conversion rate
of £1:v1.50) and 25% in the UK. Benefits in kind in the UK are
limited to life assurance, the cost of which is included in “Benefits”
in the table above. Mr Vareille remains within the French Social
Security System for the purposes of pension entitlement
(ARRCO/AGIRC) and for life assurance, death in service (the
“Prévoyance” Scheme) and the standard statutory benefits
provided by French Social Security in respect of medical care and
mutual insurance. As required by French law, the Company paid
£20,555 for the 12 months of employment, which is included
under “Benefits” in the table above. Mr Vareille received a
supplementary salary of £120,000 equivalent to 30% of his basic
salary, specifically in lieu of any Company pension contribution
as he does not participate in a Company pension scheme. This
payment is shown under “Other” in the table above.
Bonuses
For the year ended 31 March 2007 the performance targets were
based upon Group profit before taxation, management of cash
outflow, and to a limited extent, personal objectives. Performance
must reach a minimum target for a bonus of 25% of basic salary
to be payable and this bonus payment may rise to a maximum
of 75% of basic salary for Mr Vareille, and 60% for Mr Cotton.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to vary the
awards payable under the foregoing formulae. For the year to
31 March 2007 the minimum performance targets were not met,
and consequently no cash bonus will be paid to Mr Vareille or
Mr Cotton for that period.
For the year 2007/08, the Remuneration Committee has
determined that for Executive Directors, the same maximum
bonus arrangements will apply, with Mr Vareille being entitled
to up to 75% of basic salary, and Mr Cotton up to 60%.
Targets have been set which will require the Group to comply
with budgeted Group profit before tax in the year before any
payment is made. Payment will be made subject to the
achievement of targets relating to profit before tax. Any payment
is entirely at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive shares-based incentive plans
The Remuneration Committee is firmly of the view that offering
senior executives the opportunity to be awarded shares in the
Company is an important part of motivating and rewarding key
employees, so that they may participate in the future growth in
value of the Company. It is also of the view that senior executives
should be encouraged to invest directly in the Company through
the purchase of shares.
The Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (“the L-TIP”), the
Executive Co-Investment Plan (“the EC-IP”) and the Approved
and Unapproved Executive Share Option schemes (“the ESOS
schemes”) are intended to support these objectives as well as
to facilitate the retention of key senior executives over the
longer term.
The award of options under the executive share incentive plans
is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into
account, inter alia, the seniority of the individual, length of service
and other such criteria as they may determine from time to time.
The Remuneration Committee’s current policy is that participation
in the L-TIP is restricted to Executive Directors. Furthermore, the
Remuneration Committee continues to apply its policy that an
individual will not be entitled to participate in both the L-TIP and
the ESOS schemes.
The Wagon 2000 Long Term Incentive Plan (“L-TIP”)
Under the L-TIP rules, selected senior executives (including
Executive Directors) within the Group may each year be awarded
conditional entitlements to shares in the Company. The awards
under the L-TIP are made by the trustee of The Wagon Employees
Share Trust (“the Trustee”) on the recommendation of the
Remuneration Committee.
Each award has a three-year cycle. The initial market value of the
shares over which any such award is made may not exceed 120%
of the amount of the participant’s basic annual salary. The number
or proportion of such award shares which vest and are released
to the participant will be determined by reference to the extent
to which preset targets, relating to the performance of the
Company over a fixed three-year period beginning with that
in which the award is made, are met or exceeded.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 33 34 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Remuneration Report
continued
In light of certain changes to French tax laws, in June 2005 the
rules were amended such that for any award to a participant who
is tax resident in France the shares will remain registered in the
name of the Trustee for a further two years following exercise
before being released to the participant. During that two year
period the participant will be entitled to receive dividends on such
shares and may direct the Trustee how to exercise any voting
rights attaching to those shares.
Performance targets are set by the Trustee on the advice of the
Remuneration Committee at the time the award is made. The
targets are considered to be exacting and provide transparency
for both the executives and shareholders.
For awards made since the scheme was introduced in 2000,
vesting would only occur in the event that the Company is at
or above the median level in a table of comparator companies
ranked according to total shareholder return over the three year
cycle. If the Company is ranked:
– at or above the 50th centile but below the 60th centile,
25% of the award shares will vest;
– at or above the 60th centile but below the 75th centile, the
percentage of award shares which will vest will be calculated
on a linear basis between the percentage thresholds 27.5%
and 62.5% respectively;
– at or above the 75th centile, 100% of the award shares
will vest;
In addition, award shares will not normally vest unless the
average annual growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per
share in the three consecutive years beginning in the year in
which the L-TIP award is made exceeds the percentage growth
in the retail price index by at least 3%.
The adjusted earnings per share criterion is the undiluted
underlying earnings per share of the Company. This is consistent
with the definition used for the ESOS schemes.
In the event of a change in control of the Company the Trustee
of the L-TIP may determine the extent to which, and the period
within which awards may be exercised, provided that the
amount to be exercised shall not normally exceed such
proportion as corresponds to the proportion of the relevant
performance period for an award which has elapsed at the
point of the change in control.
In previous years, the comparator companies comprised the UK
listed companies (excluding overseas companies listed in the
UK) in the Engineering & Machinery and Automobile sectors
contained in the London Share Service Listing published by the
Financial Times. The peer group selected was composed of UK
companies with a broad range of manufacturing, engineering and
automotive activities. Since the appointment of Mr Vareille as
Chief Executive, the Company has sought to benchmark itself
as a European automotive company. As such a number of the
companies within the previous comparator list were no longer
considered appropriate. During the 2005/06 financial year the
Remuneration Committee selected a new list, made up of
companies within the FTSE Automobiles and Parts (Europe)
sector. A list of the comparator companies is available on
request from the Company Secretary.
This list of companies is monitored on behalf of the Company
by an independent third party. This list was applied to the awards
made to Mr Vareille and Mr Cotton in July 2005 and July 2006
and will be applied to any awards made to them in financial year
2007/08, and the criteria will be kept under review by the
Remuneration Committee. Neither of the awards made in 2005
or 2006 are currently meeting the required performance criteria
in order for awards to vest.
Directors’ long term incentive benefits
Lapsed Granted Exercised
31 March during during during 31 March
2006 the year the year the year 2007
L-TIP
R J Cotton 105,422 – 110,132 – 215,554
P Vareille 202,048 – 147,753 – 349,801
Total 307,470 – 257,885 – 565,355
Award date Awards held Earliest
31 March vesting
2007 date
R J Cotton 06.07.05 105,422 06.07.08
05.07.06 110,132 05.07.09
P Vareille 06.07.05 202,048 06.07.08
05.07.06 147,753 05.07.09
Total 565,355
The above table has been audited
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 34 Wagon and the FTSE Automotive and Parts (Europe)
sector graphs
The Wagon 2000 Executive Co-Investment Plan (“EC-IP”)
Under the EC-IP selected senior executives may elect to
commute a proportion of up to 50% of their annual performance
related cash bonus, net of payroll taxes, in the acquisition of
shares in the Company known as “bonus award” shares.
If the executive remains with the Group for a period of three
years and retains the bonus award shares during this period
(or four years in the case of French executives), the executive will
be awarded a number of additional shares known as “matching
shares”. The number of matching shares which will be awarded
is the gross equivalent of the bonus initially applied to acquire
bonus award shares, divided by the market value prevailing when
the bonus award shares were acquired. The number of matching
shares which will be awarded will be reduced in direct proportion
to the proportion of bonus award shares sold or otherwise
disposed of by the participant before the end of the three year
period. In the event of a change in control of the Company the
Trustee of the EC-IP may transfer to the participants such
proportion of the matching shares as the Trustee determines.
In light of certain changes to French tax laws, in June 2005 the
rules were amended such that for any award to an executive
who is tax resident in France the executive must remain with
the Group for a period of four years and retain the bonus award
shares during this period in order to become entitled to the
matching shares.
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 35
An executive may only participate in the EC-IP if for the year in
question, he has satisfied the performance conditions required
for the award of a cash bonus as set by the Remuneration
Committee.
As a result of feedback received from shareholders in 2004,
following the introduction of new executive approved and
unapproved share option schemes, in 2005 the Remuneration
Committee conducted a review of the award of matching shares
under the EC-IP . In previous years, the matching shares awarded
by the Company had not been subject to performance criteria.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the fact that one of
the purposes of the scheme is to encourage executives to invest
in the shares of the Company by agreeing to use cash bonus
awarded in the year to purchase shares. The cash bonus awards
have already been subject to performance criteria.
The Remuneration Committee is also mindful of the fact that,
since the arrival of the Chief Executive in May 2004, his executive
team has been completely changed and there have been further
changes made following the acquisition of Oxford Automotive
ApS on 7 April 2006, and that those executives should be
encouraged to build up a shareholding in the Company.
Nevertheless, the Remuneration Committee has decided that it
is in the interests of shareholders for there to be a re-balancing
of the award of shares that are not subject to performance criteria.
Therefore for awards made in 2005 and 2006, the Remuneration
Committee decided that in matching the shares purchased by
individuals, half of those matching shares would be granted
without performance criteria applying. The remaining 50%
matching shares will vest only if the average annual percentage
growth in EPS exceeds the average annual percentage growth
in RPI by at least 3% over the three year vesting period.
The Remuneration Committee applied this policy for the financial
years 2005/06 and 2006/07. This policy has since been reviewed
and the Remuneration Committee has decided that for awards to
be made in the financial year 2007/08 all of the matching shares
that may be granted will be subject to performance criteria.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
Options issued under these schemes may be exercised
between three and ten years after the date granted, but only if
a predetermined performance criterion is satisfied. The criterion
requires that growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per
share over the three financial years commencing with the start
of the year in which the grant occurs exceeds the percentage
growth in RPIx over that same period. The actual growth results
in the following percentage of the original share options granted
becoming exercisable:
If the growth equals or exceeds 12% all the options will vest.
If the growth exceeds 9% but is less than 12%, the percentage
of shares which will vest will be determined on a straight line
basis between 51% and 99%.
If the growth equals 9%, half the options will vest.
If the growth is less than 9% no options will vest.
For the purposes of the schemes, adjusted earnings per share
means in relation to any year, the underlying earnings per share
as published in the Company’s annual report and financial
statements. RPIx means the general index of retail prices (for
all items excluding mortgage interest) published by the Central
Statistical Office of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Total return indices – Wagon and European Auto Parts
Total return indices – Wagon and FTSE All Share
Wagon return index European auto parts return index
Wagon return index FTSE All Share Index
0
50
100
150
200
31.3.02 31.3.03 31.3.04 31.3.05 31.3.06 31.3.07
0
50
100 
150
200 
31.3.02 31.3.03 31.3.04 31.3.05 31.3.06 31.3.07 
3
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 35 36 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The rules of the executive share option schemes do not allow for
options to be granted at a discount to the market price at the date
of grant. In the event of a change in control of the Company, both
scheme’s rules allow for the exercise of a proportion of the
options, corresponding to the proportion of the performance
period as has elapsed at the time when control passes (or such
other proportion as the Remuneration Committee determines),
within six months of such change of control.
Share options
The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved Save As
You Earn share scheme for UK-based employees who have,
at the time an invitation to participate is made, completed one
or more year’s service. Under this scheme, options may, at the
Company’s discretion, be granted to acquire ordinary shares in
the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market price of
the Company’s shares at the date of invitation to participants
who have contracted to save up to a maximum of £250 per
month over a period of three or five years. There have been no
grants under the scheme since January 2005. Mr Cotton would
be eligible to participate in future grants under this scheme.
Remuneration Report
continued
Directors’ share options
Lapsed Granted Exercised
31 March during during during 31 March
2006 the year the year the year 2007
R J Cotton ––– ––
P Vareille 195,078 ––– 195,078
Total 195,078 ––– 195,078
Total Exercised Earliest date Potential
(pence) exercisable gain as at
31 March
2007
1
R J Cotton ––– –
P Vareille 195,078
(2)
181.0 22.09.08 (£90,224)
1
Difference between the exercise price and the market value of Wagon plc ordinary shares at 31 March 2007 (134.75p) multiplied by
the number of shares under option
2
Options granted under The Wagon 2004 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme
The above tables have been audited
Headroom
Set out below is the available headroom for the granting of
options for ordinary shares under the Company share schemes
as at 31 March 2007 calculated in accordance with the ABI
principles and guidelines issued in December 2006:
Issued share capital as at 31 March 2007: 115,388,378 shares
Executive schemes:
5% of issued share capital 5,769,419
Number of executive options over 10 years 1,157,685
Remaining headroom 4,611,734
All schemes:
10% of issued share capital 11,538,838
Number of total options over 10 years 2,218,754
Remaining headroom 9,320,084
Share price
The market price on 31 March 2007 was 134.75p (31 March 2006:
251.5p). The highest mid market price during the year was 263p
and the lowest mid market price was 128p.
Executive Directors’ Service Contracts
The policy for executive service contracts is that notice periods
will normally not exceed 12 months. Mr Vareille and Mr Cotton
each has a rolling contract with a notice period of 12 months from
either party.
The Committee’s policy in relation to termination of service
agreements is to apply an appropriate level of mitigation, having
regard to all of the circumstances of the individual and the
termination of employment, and to any legal advice received.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 36 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 37
Non-Executive Directors
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is for a fixed term
of three years. It is terminable on three months’ notice by either
party. The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts
and do not participate in any Company pension, share or
incentive schemes. The Board has reviewed its standard
appointment letter for Non-Executive Directors in line with Code
recommendations, such that these are in place for re-elected
Directors and any future appointments. The current letters of
appointment for all Non-Executive Directors will be available for
inspection at each Annual General Meeting and during normal
business hours at the Company’s Registered Office. Fees for
Non-Executive Directors are approved by the Board and are
based on a standard fee with additional fees payable for the
chairing of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Pensions
As mentioned earlier, Mr Vareille receives a supplementary salary
of 30% of his basic salary in lieu of any Company pension
contributions as he remains within the French Social Security
System. Accordingly the Company makes no pension provision
for him.
Mr Cotton is entitled to the equivalent of 25% of salary by way
of employer’s pension contribution provided that Mr Cotton
contributes 5% of his salary and that the contributions are put
into an appropriate pensions vehicle. The Company made a
contribution of £62,500 for the period to 31 March 2007.
Outside appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appropriate non-
executive directorship offered by listed companies and other
organisations, which provide industry experience or public service.
Such outside appointment is subject to prior Board approval,
taking into account existing duties and potential conflicts of
interest. Neither of the Executive Directors have any such outside
appointment at present.
Directors’ interests
The Directors in office at 31 March 2007 had the interests
detailed below (as shown in the register of Directors’ interests)
in Group companies, being solely shares in Wagon plc. No
changes have taken place in the Directors’ shareholdings and
options between 31 March 2007 and 7 June 2007.
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
ordinary shares ordinary shares
1
C R N Clark 10,000 –
R J Cotton 8,877 –
J Höhnel ––
S M Lyons 6,500 6,500
J L Rennocks 2,500 2,500
W L Ross 17,485,059
2
–
P Vareille 105,627
4
89,211
3
R Zimmermann ––
1
Or date of appointment if later
2
Interest arises through the interests of the WLR Recovery
Funds, which are entities managed by the private equity firm,
WL Ross & Co., LLC, of which Mr Ross is the Chairman
3
Held in trust until September 2007
4
72,755 of which are held in trust until September 2007
The above table has been audited
In addition to the ordinary shares shown in the above table,
Mr Cotton also holds one preference share in the capital of
the Company.
Non Executive Directors
Date of
most recent
Date of initial appointment by Appointment
appointment shareholders expires
C R N Clark 28.07.05 21.07.06 July 2009
J Höhnel 27.03.07 – July 2010
1
S M Lyons 02.07.02 28.07.05 July 2008
JL Rennocks 05.09.02 28.07.05 July 2008
W L Ross 07.04.06 07.04.06 April 2009
R Zimmermann 07.04.06 07.04.06 April 2009
1
Subject to being elected as a Director by shareholders at the
AGM to be held on 24 July 2007.
By order of the Board
Rolf Zimmermann
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 June 2007
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 37 38 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Corporate Governance
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for
good governance and the information and statements below
describe how the Company applies the main and supporting
principles, and complies with the detailed provisions identified
in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July
2003 (the “Code”).
The Company applies the principles of the Code by adopting
relevant recommendations and best practice from recognised
governance reports and organisations, by developing and
documenting formal Board governance policies and procedures,
and by monitoring developments and best practice.
Throughout the year under review, the Board considers that the
Company has complied with the provisions recommended in
Section 1 of the Code, save that:
– The division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief
Executive were formally set out in writing for most of the
financial year, a formal policy having been approved on 30
November 2006. The Board is firmly of the view that at all
times the respective roles and responsibilities were clearly
understood by both individuals, and by the Board as a whole.
– As part of the review of its Standards of Business Conduct
Policy, the Group is reviewing and revising methods by which
employees can raise any concerns regarding financial reporting
with the Audit Committee. In order to address concerns raised
by employees in France and Germany, further consultation
with the Wagon European Forum and at local level will be
conducted during 2007/08.
– Less than 50% of the Directors were independent for the last
four days of the financial year to 31 March 2007.
Directors
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the
Company and responsible to shareholders for the effective and
proper management and control of the Company. It is the Board’s
role to provide leadership within a framework of effective
controls that enables risk to be appropriately assessed and
managed. The Board determines and reviews strategy and
policy, sets the Company’s values and standards and ensures
the right financial and human resources are in place to meet the
Company’s objectives. The Board also continually reviews
management performance. All Directors act in the best interests
of the Company, are aware of their obligations to shareholders
and recognise the interests of other stakeholders.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board’s
decision only and which includes Group strategy, acquisitions
and disposals, annual and interim results, dividend policy, the
annual budget, requests for major capital expenditure and other
significant financial matters including material treasury and
investment decisions and risk management policy. This process
is undertaken following discussions in conjunction with the Chief
Executive who, through the Executive Committee (which assists
the Chief Executive in exercising the powers delegated to him
by the Board) is responsible for the implementation of agreed
strategy, the day to day conduct of the Group’s operations and
for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting
the Company’s objectives.
The Board had six scheduled meetings in the year, although the
total number of meetings was eight, given the disposal of the
five low-tonnage stampings plants to Sonas Group which was
completed on 5 December 2006. All Directors’ attendance at
Board and Committee meetings (during their term of office)
are set out in the table below.
Directors’ attendance at Board meetings
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
(8 meetings) (5 meetings) (3 meetings) (1 meeting)
C R N Clark 85 3 1
R J Cotton 85 – –
H Guillaume 2– – –
S Kalyandjian 8– 3 0
S M Lyons 85 3 1
J L Rennocks 85 3 0
W L Ross 8– – 1
P Vareille 85 3 –
R Zimmermann74 3 1
A comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda
is provided to each Director several days prior to each meeting,
and Directors are able to seek further clarification on any matter
from management whenever deemed necessary. Decisions are
taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations
of its Committees and advice from external consultants and
executive management, where this is appropriate. The main
Committees to which the Board delegates its responsibilities
and provides sufficient resources with which to carry out their
duties, are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees, all of whose terms of reference are determined by
the Board, documented and available on the Company’s website
or on request from the Company Secretary. Only members of
the Committees have a right to attend meetings although others
are invited to attend as appropriate to the business being
conducted. Full details of each Committee’s activities appear
later in this report.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 38 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 39
The Company purchases appropriate liability insurance in respect
of any legal action which may be brought against the Company
or its Directors.
At least annually the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive
Directors without the Executive Directors present. The Non-
Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director have
met to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board’s policy is that the roles of Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive of the Company should be split, and that the role
of the Chairman should be non-executive.
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the
Company, the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for leading the
Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is
responsible for running the Company’s business.
Board balance and independence
The Board comprises two Executive Directors:
Mr Vareille, Chief Executive.
Mr Cotton, Group Finance Director.
and six Non-Executive Directors:
Mr Clark, Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations
Committee.
Mr Höhnel, Non Executive Director (appointed 27 March 2007).
Ms Lyons, independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee until 1 June 2006.
Mr Rennocks, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Ross, Non-Executive Director (appointed 7 April 2006).
Mr Zimmermann, independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 7 April 2006) and Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee from 3 May 2007.
Biographies of the current Directors are shown on pages 24 to 25.
From 1 April 2006 to 27 March 2007 at least half the Board, not
counting the Chairman, was made up of independent Directors
as defined by the Code. Following the departure of Mr Kalyandjian,
the Board is in the process of recruiting a further independent
Non-Executive Director to restore the balance so that at least
50% of the Board are independent.
The Non-Executive Directors bring to the Board external
experience in a range of areas important to the Group and assist
the Board in its decision-making, constructively challenging
strategy and specific proposals.
The Board is satisfied that its composition ensures that no
individual or group of individuals dominate the decision-making
process. Throughout the previous financial year, given the then
small membership of the Board, and with the exception of the
Chairman post 28 July 2005, all Non-Executive Directors were
members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees. The
Board believes that shareholders’ interests were served and
corporate governance was in fact strengthened through the
resultant good flow of information to all Board members which
helped ensure that no undue influence could be exerted by any
one Director.
Upon the completion of the acquisition of Oxford Automotive
ApS on 7 April 2006 the Company appointed four new Non-
Executive Directors, taking the total number of Non-Executive
Directors to seven. As detailed in the Directors’ Report, the
composition of the Board changed on 27 March 2007 and the
total number of Non-Executive Directors is now six. A review
of the composition of the Committees was undertaken following
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive Aps and details of the
existing composition of each Committee are provided on pages
40 to 43.
Appointments to the Board
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the
appointment of new Directors to the Board based on merit, using
objective criteria and conducted by the Nominations Committee
which, when appropriate, makes recommendations to the
Board. Details of this process and the workings of the
Nominations Committee can be found later in this report.
Information and professional development
The Chairman ensures Directors receive accurate, timely and
clear information with all papers for meetings of the Board and
its Committees issued in advance by the Company Secretary
who is responsible for good information flows within the Board
and its Committees, and between Non-Executive Directors
and management.
All newly appointed Directors and senior management are given
a comprehensive introduction to the Group’s businesses including
visits to the Group’s manufacturing facilities and meetings with
other senior management. In addition, Directors are given a
detailed briefing pack containing Group information based
on best practice guidelines.
On request any newly appointed Non-Executive Director will
meet with major shareholders.
All Directors are advised that they have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary who advises on all governance
matters and ensures Board procedures are complied with. In
addition, Directors are entitled to seek independent professional
advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the
Company’s expense. The appointment and removal of
the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of
diverse business skills and experience, and are consequently
best placed to identify their own training requirements. However,
they are encouraged to attend relevant courses upon joining the
Board and, where appropriate, at regular intervals thereafter and
the Company makes the necessary resources available for any
such development needs.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 39 40 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Corporate Governance
continued
Performance evaluation
The Board conducted a formal appraisal of its performance and
that of its Committees and individual Directors during the year.
This process took the form of a questionnaire sent to each Director,
with the responses and consequential Board report as prepared
by the Company Secretary being reviewed by the Board. Areas
identified for development, including Director training and
succession planning, will be addressed in the current year.
Election and Re-election
The Company’s articles of association, which were adopted
by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on
6 April 2006, require that all Directors who have been appointed
by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting or who
have held office for three years or more shall retire from office
but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
Mr Vareille was appointed a Director on 1 May 2004 and
accordingly retires and offers himself for re-election by
shareholders at the AGM to be held on 24 July 2007. Mr Höhnel
was appointed by the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 27
March 2007 and accordingly offers himself for election by
shareholders at the AGM to be held on 24 July 2007. Biographical
details of Mr Vareille and Mr Höhnel can be found on page 25. The
Board considers that, as evidenced by his biographical details,
Mr Höhnel brings to the Board a high level of experience in the
international automotive supplier industry.
Committees of the Board
The Board has four Committees, being Remuneration, Audit,
Nominations and Executive. The duties of the Committees
are set out in formal terms of reference and are available
on request from the Company Secretary and are also on
the Company’s website.
Remuneration Committee
With effect from 7 April 2006 the Remuneration Committee
comprises solely independent Non-Executive Directors, and
currently consists of Mr Zimmermann (Chairman), Ms Lyons
and Mr Rennocks. The Committee was chaired until 1 June 2006
by Ms Lyons and then by Mr Kalyandjian until his resignation as
a Non-Executive Director on 27 March 2007. On 3 May 2007
Mr Zimmermann was appointed Chairman of the Committee.
The principal function of the Committee is to determine and
agree with the Board a framework or broad policy for the
remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman,
and within that agreed framework, to set the remuneration of
all Executive Directors and the Chairman. It also ratifies the Chief
Executive’s remuneration proposals for the members of the
Executive Committee and those members of the Group whose
basic salary is £100,000 or more. The Committee also notes the
salary and benefits of individual managers whose salary is in
excess of £50,000 per annum. The Committee met four times
during the year. The Board’s report to shareholders explaining
how the Company applies the Code’s principles and complies
with its provisions in relation to remuneration and on how
Directors are remunerated, together with details of individual
Directors’ remuneration in accordance with Schedule 7A to
the Companies Act 1985, is shown on pages 32 to 37.
Nominations Committee
With effect from 7 April 2006, the Nominations Committee
comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors,
and currently consists of Mr Clark (as Chairman), Ms Lyons,
Mr Rennocks, Mr Ross and Mr Zimmermann. The Chairman
of the Board chairs the Committee save in circumstances
of the selection of his own successor, when the Committee
would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met once during the year. The Committee is
responsible for maintaining the balance and effectiveness of
the Board. Its remit is to review the Board structure, particularly
in relation to the diversity of skills, experience, age and term
of office and it seeks to ensure that both Executive and Non-
Executive Directors have the necessary skills and attributes for
the future success of the Group. The Chairman of the Company,
rather than the Nominations Committee, takes responsibility for
considering the performance of any Director retiring and offering
himself for re-election before making a recommendation to the
Board on whether that person should put their name forward for
re-election by shareholders.
Normally, any proposed appointment commences with an
evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the balance of
skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in conjunction
with experienced external search consultants, a description of
the role and responsibilities for the proposed appointment is then
prepared. The appointed external consultant will then prepare
a shortlist of potential candidates in consultation with the Chairman
and Chief Executive. Following meetings with candidates and
the Chairman and other Directors, the Nominations Committee
then formally meets in order to ensure that the views of the
Executive Directors are taken into account before finalising any
recommendation regarding an appointment to the Board. In the
case of non-executive appointments, any appointees are required
to confirm that they have sufficient time to devote to the position.
Directors who were appointed on 7 April 2006 were selected
during the course of negotiating the acquisition of Oxford
Automotive ApS. Mr Höhnel was selected following a proposal
by Mr Ross, and an interview process that involved meeting
either in person or on the telephone all other Directors.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 40 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 41
Executive Committee
During the year under review in addition to the two Executive
Directors the Committee consisted of the following people:
Frédéric Babin
Group Human Resources Director
François Bernès
Innovative Solutions Business Group Director
Christian Bogeat
Group Marketing & Sales Co-ordination Director
(appointed 10 April 2006)
David Cardwell
Metal Components Business Group Director
(until 10 April 2006)
Olivier Chapelle
Closure Systems Business Group Director
(Engineered Structures Business Group Director until 10 April 2006)
Jean-François Constant
Body Structures Business Group Director
(appointed 10 April 2006 and left on 26 March 2007)
Xavier Dessemond
Group Purchasing Director
Sean Farrell
Group Strategy and Corporate Development Director
(appointed 10 April 2006)
François Liotard
Group Industrial Development Director
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Executive
Committee and is in attendance at all meetings.
The titles and profiles of the current members of the Executive
Committee and the Company Secretary are set out on pages 26
to 27.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Mr Vareille. The principal
function of the Executive Committee is to assist the Chief
Executive in the performance of his duties including: the
development and implementation of strategy, operational plans,
policies, procedures and budgets; the monitoring of operating
and financial performance; the assessment of control of risk;
and the prioritisation and allocation of resources and in particular
the approval of capital expenditure.
The Committee meets each month (with the exception of
August) and also holds weekly telephone business reviews.
Internal Control
Philosophy and policy
The objective of the Directors and senior management is to
safeguard and increase the value of shareholders’ investment
and the business and assets of the Group. Part of this objective
requires the development of relevant policies and appropriate
internal controls to ensure proper management of the Group’s
resources and the identification of risks which might serve to
undermine them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. However,
it is recognised that a system of internal control is designed to
manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can provide only reasonable, not
absolute assurance, particularly against misstatement or
loss. The Chief Executive, in conjunction with the Executive
Committee and certain other senior executives and external
advisers therefore periodically review the suitability of current
systems of internal control and report their findings to the
Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s findings to ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by
executive and senior management. Such reviews are conducted
through discussions held with executives and consideration of
reports that have been submitted. These findings are in turn
discussed by the full Board. The Board is satisfied that this
process accords with the internal control guidance for Directors
set out in the ICAEW Turnbull guidance and that through its
interface with management, the Board is aware of all the major
risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group where
possible to mitigate such risks.
Structures
The Group operates under a framework of internal controls
which include internal audit, external audit, regular budget
reviews, annual internal controls questionnaires and Group
business risk assessments. Plant managers and financial
controllers are responsible for managing the business risks
within their facility. Each year they are asked to complete a letter
of assurance, confirming compliance with the Group’s policies
and procedures and risk management processes.
Risk profiling
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced
by the Group, through the conduct of risk workshops throughout
the Group. This is led at a plant level by plant managers and
involves the Executive Committee and certain other senior
executives. Findings from the workshops are reported to the
Audit Committee together with recommended action and a
timetable for implementation. A list of prioritised risks is
refreshed to reflect changes to the business including those
arising from new acquisitions. The list, along with other
management information, is used to develop an overall
assurance plan for the Group. It is reviewed on a regular basis
by both the Board and the Executive Committee.
Controlling risk
The Group has a number of policies and procedures which provide
guidance and instruction to management in respect of key
business, commercial, financial and operational risks. These
are issued to all management across the Group.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 41 42 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Corporate Governance
continued
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk
The Group carries out a programme of internal audits and
management self-assessments over the status of residual risks.
The actions arising from internal and external audits are
consolidated and the results of the audits are reported to the
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee assesses the findings
and proposed actions for addressing residual risks. In addition,
action points are reviewed during the regular business
review meetings.
Internal controls
The Group has a comprehensive system for the regular
monitoring and reporting of the financial performance of each
Business Group and plant and for assessing the adequacy of
the Group’s system of internal control. Detailed budgets are
prepared at plant, Business Group, and shared service function
level and, following review by the Group’s Executive Committee,
are formally reviewed and adopted by the Board. Budgets and
targets are regularly updated via a rolling monthly and quarterly
forecasting process and variances from the targets and budgets
are discussed with operational and commercial management.
The internal controls of each plant are also evaluated through the
review of completed questionnaires. Each plant manager and
financial controller is asked to confirm in writing that they have
complied with the Group’s policy on internal financial control.
These internal controls are supported by focused auditing of
specific operations or functions, as determined by the Audit
Committee at the beginning of each financial year. In previous
years the audits have been conducted with the advice and
assistance of Deloitte who have facilitated the development
of the annual programme, assisted with its implementation and
reported to the Committee at least twice each year on the findings
and their recommendations. Following a review of the operation
of internal audit, an internal audit department was created in
February 2006 which now undertakes these tasks.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of
the system of internal controls for the year ended 31 March
2007 and that this review covered all material controls including
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management systems.
Audit Committee and Auditors
Audit Committee
During the year under review, the Audit Committee comprised
solely independent Non-Executive Directors, and currently consists
of Mr Rennocks (Chairman), Ms Lyons and Mr Zimmermann.
Mr Clark did not become a member of the Audit Committee
on his appointment as Chairman of the Company, although
he has a standing invitation to attend all meetings.
Mr Rennocks FCA, is the Chairman of the Committee and
the Board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial
experience. The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance
Director and other senior executives regularly attend the
Committee meetings by invitation. The Committee also meets
with the auditors without management being present.
The Committee met five times during the year to discharge
its responsibilities, (as set out in its terms of reference). In
so discharging its responsibilities, the Committee:
– Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any
formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial
performance, reviewing significant financial judgements;
– Reviews the Company’s internal financial controls and internal
control and risk management systems;
– Monitors and reviews the Company’s requirements for an
internal audit function;
– Makes recommendations to the Board in regard to the
appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external
auditors, the terms of engagement and remuneration and
maintaining an appropriate relationship with them;
– Reviews and monitors the external auditors’ independence
and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process;
– Develops and implements the Company’s policy on the
engagement of the external auditor in the supply of non-audit
services.
The Committee is monitoring consultations with employees
concerning the introduction of a method by which all employees
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 42 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 43
During Audit Committee meetings at which the auditors are
present, the activities of both internal audit and the external
auditors are reviewed. This includes the approval of internal audit
plans, and the scope of work to be undertaken by the external
auditors. Written reports containing summaries of significant
findings are reviewed and action plans agreed where necessary.
During the year under review the Committee adopted a formal
policy for the engagement of external advisers for non-audit
services which includes certain services which the auditors are
prohibited from providing. However, prior to the introduction of
this policy the Committee did have a general policy of not engaging
the Group’s auditors, KPMG Audit plc for work other than audit
work, without its knowledge and consent. This included a review
of the suitability of KPMG to carry out work in connection with
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive ApS. The Committee also
reviews annually any non-audit services provided by the auditors
and their cost which is disclosed in note 3 to the accounts on
page 58 and obtains written confirmation from the auditors that
they remain independent.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
Principally via the Executive Directors, the Company seeks to
build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its institutional
shareholders through regular meetings and presentations
following the preliminary and interim announcements. Institutional
shareholders would be given the opportunity to meet with a new
Non-Executive Director should any shareholders so request.
The views of key analysts and shareholders are communicated
back to the Board directly by the Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director and via reports from the Company’s broker, thus
ensuring all members of the Board develop a good understanding
of the views of major shareholders. The Senior Independent
Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive
or Group Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which
such contact is inappropriate. Corporate information including
the Annual Report and other financial presentations and
announcements are available on the Company’s website
www.wagonautomotive.com.
Constructive use of the AGM
The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting and confirms that the Company
complies with all Code provisions relating to constructive use
of the AGM. In addition to meeting its obligations to shareholders,
the Board recognises that it has a responsibility to the Group’s
customers, employees and suppliers and the communities in
which it operates and invests.
By order of the Board
Jonathan Jowett
Company Secretary
7 June 2007
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 43 44 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the group and parent company financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and
parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting
Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs
as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and
the performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985
provides in relation to such financial statements that references
in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair
presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
– make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
– for the group financial statements, state whether they have
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
EU;
– for the parent company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the parent company financial statements; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the parent company and enable them to
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the corporate and financial information included on the
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 44 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 45
Independent Auditors’
Report to the Members
of Wagon plc
We have audited the group and parent company financial
statements (the ‘’financial statements’’) of Wagon plc for the
year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated
Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance
Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Group
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related
notes. These financial statements have been prepared under
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 44.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the
Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that
specific information presented in the Chief Executive’s
Review, Business Group Review and Financial Review that
is cross referred from the Business Review section of the
Directors’ Report. In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions
of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the
Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls,
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of
the group’s affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its loss for the
year then ended;
– the group financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation;
– the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31
March 2007;
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
Birmingham
7 June 2007
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:22  Page 45 Consolidated Income 
Statement 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
46 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
2007 2006
Restructuring
and MG Rover
Underlyingimpairment Total Underlying related costs Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,2 710.0 710.0 417.2 – 417.2
Operating profit/(loss) 1,2 15.2 (75.3) (60.1) 21.5 (0.4) 21.1
Loss on disposal of businesses 5 – (26.4) (26.4) (0.8) – (0.8)
Profit/(loss) before financing costs 15.2 (101.7) (86.5) 20.7 (0.4) 20.3
Financial income 6 7.3 – 7.3 7.5 – 7.5
Financial expense 6 (18.3) (1.9) (20.2) (13.5) – (13.5)
Net financing costs (11.0) (1.9) (12.9) (6.0) – (6.0)
Profit/(loss) before tax 4.2 (103.6) (99.4) 14.7 (0.4) 14.3
Income tax (expense)/credit 7 (1.9) 6.1 4.2 (4.1) – (4.1)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 2.3 (97.5) (95.2) 10.6 (0.4) 10.2
attributable to equity holders of the parent
Equity dividends 22
– equity dividends recognised (£m) 7.1 4.6
– paid dividends per share 9.0p 9.0p
– proposed dividends per share 1.0p 5.0p
Earnings per share 23
– basic (84.8)p 19.9p
– diluted (84.8)p 19.5p
The tax credit recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 is comprised entirely of non-UK charges.
The tax expense recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 is comprised entirely of non-UK charges.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 46 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   47
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Foreign exchange translation differences 22 (7.5) 0.9
Net (loss)/gain on hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiary 19 (0.8) 1.2
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of changes in fair value 19 (0.3) (0.1)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 17 2.9 5.8
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (5.7) 7.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (95.2) 10.2
Total recognised income and expense for the financial year 22 (100.9) 18.0
attributable to equity holders of the parent
There is no tax effect relating to any of the above items, with the exception of the profit/(loss) for the year as set out in the
Income Statement.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 47 Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 March 2007
48 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Non–current assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 189.4 137.3
Intangible assets 9 147.6 55.6
Trade and other receivables 13 6.1 –
Deferred tax assets 11 9.1 0.8
352.2 193.7
Current assets
Inventories 12 59.0 33.7
Income tax receivable 6.9 5.5
Financial assets 19 0.8 1.1
Trade and other receivables 13 196.0 120.5
Cash and cash equivalents 14 68.5 38.3
331.2 199.1
Total assets 683.4 392.8
Current liabilities
Borrowings 15 (6.3) (2.7)
Trade and other payables 16 (249.8) (159.2)
Financial liabilities 19 (2.1) (2.2)
Employee benefits 17 (3.9) (4.0)
Income tax payable (8.3) (7.6)
Provisions 18 (49.4) –
(319.8) (175.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 15 (170.8) (93.7)
Trade and other payables 16 (1.8) (1.7)
Employee benefits 17 (26.2) (26.7)
Income tax payable (3.2) –
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (3.8) (7.1)
Provisions 18 (23.6) –
(229.4) (129.2)
Total liabilities (549.2) (304.9)
Net assets 134.2 87.9
Equity
Issued capital 22 28.8 13.2
Share premium account 22 18.0 17.7
Other reserves 22 126.6 (3.1)
Retained earnings 22 (39.2) 60.1
Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent 134.2 87.9
Approved and signed on behalf of the board on 7 June 2007.
Christopher Clark
Richard Cotton
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:06  Page 48 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement 
for the year ended 31 March 2007
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   49
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year (95.2) 10.2
Impairment of fixed assets and intangibles 4 9.3 –
Depreciation and amortisation 8,9 36.5 28.1
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 6.3 0.3
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 3.9 –
Loss on disposal of businesses 4 26.4 0.8
Net financial expense 6 12.9 6.0
Income tax (income)/expense (4.2) 4.1
Exchange and other non cash movements 7 0.9 (0.3)
Operating (loss)/profit before changes in working capital and provisions (3.2) 49.2
(Increase)/decrease in non–tooling inventories (4.8) 3.6
Increase in tooling inventories (21.5) (9.1)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 2.8 (4.6)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits 32.3 (2.9)
Decrease in trade and other payables (14.4) (5.2)
Cash (used in)/generated by operations (8.8) 31.0
Income taxes received/(paid) 4.9 (5.9)
Net cash (used in)/generated by operating activities (3.9) 25.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 15.1 4.5
Interest received 0.9 1.9
Disposal of businesses (6.1) 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 25 53.9 (4.5)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (45.0) (25.3)
Investment in intangibles 9 (4.6) (4.2)
Net cash generated by/(used in) investing activities 14.2 (27.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from increased bank borrowings 80.1 12.0
Repayment of bank borrowings (44.6) –
Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.5) (0.6)
Interest paid (8.0) (7.2)
Equity dividends paid (7.1) (4.6)
Proceeds from the issue of ordinary share capital 22 0.3 0.1
Net cash generated by/(used in) financing activities 19.2 (0.3)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29.5 (2.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 37.7 40.0
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.8) 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 14 64.4 37.7
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 49 Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
50 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Significant accounting policies
Wagon plc (“the Company”) is a company domiciled in the UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the
year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
a) Statement of compliance
The Group financial statements have been prepared and
approved by the directors in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU
(“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK
GAAP; these are presented on pages 89 to 100.
b) Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling,
rounded to the nearest 0.1 million. The financial statements
are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative
financial instruments are stated at their fair value. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application
of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
income and expenses. The estimates and associated
assumptions are based on historical experience and various
other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form a basis of making
the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a
regular basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision
affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS
that have significant effect on the financial statements adopted
are limited to the estimates used to calculate the value in use
of various assets within impairment reviews and recognition
of deferred tax assets. These are discussed in note 26.
The balance sheet of the prior year has been restated.
Borrowings (current and non-current) were previously
classified based on the timing of the next repricing; they have
been restated to be presented based on the maturity date of
the borrowings.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied
consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated
financial statements except where noted otherwise.
The Directors have reviewed the standards and interpretations
issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date after these
financial statements. They have not been adopted early by the
Group and the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of
these standards and interpretations will have a material
impact on the Group’s reported income or net assets in the
period of adoption.
c) Basis of consolidation
i) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial
statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the
Group. Control exists when the Company has direct or indirect
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an
entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date that control transfers to the Group
until the date that control ceases.
ii) T ransactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or
income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
d) Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated
at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange
differences arising on translation are recognised in the
income statement.
On consolidation, the balance sheets of overseas entities 
are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at
the balance sheet date. Income statements and cash flows
of overseas entities are translated into sterling at the average
exchange rate for the period where this rate approximates
to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the
transactions. Gains or losses arising from the translation of
overseas entities are recognised in the translation reserve. 
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net
investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are
taken to the translation reserve. They are released into the
income statement upon disposal. 
e) Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising
from operational, financing and investment activities. In
accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold
or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that
the contract is entered into and subsequently re–measured in
future periods at their fair value. The method of recognising
the resulting change in fair value is dependant on whether the
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  14/6/07  14:20  Page 50 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   51
e) Derivative financial instruments (continued)
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount
that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at
the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest
rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted
market price at the balance sheet date, being the present
value of the quoted forward price. Fair value movements in
derivatives are recognised in the income statement unless
an effective hedge relationship exists, when the movements
are recognised in the statement of recognised income
and expense.
f) Hedging
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a 
hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or
liability, or highly probable forecasted transaction, the
effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial
instrument is recognised directly in equity in the hedging
reserve. When the forecasted transaction subsequently
results in the recognition of a non–financial asset or
non–financial liability, or a forecast transaction for a
non–financial asset or non–financial liability occurs the
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity
and included in the income statement in the period in which
the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss
(i.e. in periods when the depreciation expense or cost of sales
is recognised).
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in
the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated
gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are
reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or periods
during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects
profit or loss (i.e. when interest income or expense is
recognised).
For cash flow hedges other than those covered by the
preceding two paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain
or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income
statement in the same period or periods during which the
hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss. The
ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately
in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated
or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the
above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to
be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity in the
translation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.
g) Property, plant and equipment
i) Owned assets
The Group adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to
retain the book value of freehold land and buildings as deemed
cost, therefore items of property, plant and equipment are
stated at cost as deemed cost less accumulated depreciation
and impairment losses (see accounting policy on impairment).
Owned assets acquired following transition to IFRS are
recorded at cost.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have
different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
ii) Leased assets
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance
leases. The owner–occupied property acquired by way of
finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its
fair value and the present value of the minimum lease
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated
depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see
accounting policy on impairment). Lease payments are
accounted for as described in the accounting policy on
expenses. Property held under operating leases that would
otherwise meet the definition of investment property may be
classified as investment property on a property–by–property
basis and would then be valued using the fair value model.
iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight–line basis at rates
calculated to write off the cost or valuation less estimated
residual value of each asset over its expected useful life as
follows:
Freehold buildings – over expected economic 
life not exceeding 50 years
Leasehold buildings – over the period of the lease
Plant and other equipment – 3 to 20 years
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or on assets in
the course of construction. The residual value, and the useful
economic life of the assets are reassessed annually.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 51 52 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Software – 3 years
Development expenditure – expected life of project,
between three and
seven years
Patents – over the duration of the
legal agreement
Customer relationships – 10 years
i) Investments
Investments are classified as financial instruments and those
held by the Group are classified as being available–for–sale
and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss
being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment
losses, which are recognised in accordance with the policy on
impairment. When these investments are derecognised, the
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity
is recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments classified as
available–for–sale investments is their quoted bid price at the
balance sheet date, where available, or the value in use as
calculated using discounted cash flows based on estimated
future income and expense.
Financial instruments classified as available–for–sale
investments are recognised or derecognised by the group
on the date it commits to purchase or sell the investments.
j) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable
value. Cost is calculated using the weighted average method
or the first-in-first-out principle where such a method
approximates to weighted average. The utilisation of either
method depends on the country that the stock is held in. In
the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress,
cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on
normal operating activity. Net realisable value is the estimated
selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the
estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management
strategy are included as a component of cash and cash
equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
l) Impairment
Goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and
intangible assets that are not yet available for use are not
subject to amortisation and are tested for impairment at
each balance sheet date. Assets subject to amortisation and
depreciation are reviewed for impairment at each balance
sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable
amount is calculated as the greater of their fair value less
costs to sell and value in use.
h) Goodwill and other intangible assets 
i) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying
the purchase method. Goodwill arising on acquisitions that
have occurred since 1 April 2004 represents the difference
between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of an acquired entity. Consideration includes
attributable costs of the acquisition. In respect of acquisitions
prior to 1 April 2004 goodwill is included on the basis of its
deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under
UK GAAP (“previous GAAP”).
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment
losses in the consolidated balance sheet and is subject to an
annual impairment review.
ii) Research and development
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the
prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and
understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an
expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research
findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of
new or substantially improved products and processes, is
capitalised if the product or process is technically and
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources
to complete development. The expenditure capitalised
includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate
proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is
recognised in the income statement as incurred. Capitalised
development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment losses (see accounting policy
on impairment).
iii) Other intangibles
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination
is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or
arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value
can be measured reliably. Such intangibles are then carried
at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated
impairment losses (see accounting policy on impairment).
iv) Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a
straight–line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible
assets unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible
assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested
for impairment annually. The amortisation period of assets
with definite useful life are as follows:
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 52 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   53
m)Share capital
i) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group
Financial instruments issues by the Group are treated as
equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the
extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Group to
deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange
financial assets or financial liabilities with another party
under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the
Group; and
b) Where the instrument will, or may be, settled in the
Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a
non–derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a
variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments
or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets
for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
T o the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds 
of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the
instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Company’s
own shares, the amounts presented in these financial
statements for called up share capital and share premium
account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Where a financial instrument that contains both equity and
financial liability components exists these components are
separated and accounted for individually under the above policy. 
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt
with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments
associated with financial instruments that are classified in
equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
ii) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is accounted for as a compound
financial instrument as set out in note 22. The liability
component of the instrument is calculated by discounting the
future cash outflows for the non–discretionary dividend
payments using a pre–tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money. The equity
element is calculated as the residual interest in the assets
of the Company after deducting all of the related liabilities.
iii)Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the 
amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable
costs, is recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares
(if not cancelled) are classified as treasury shares and 
presented as a deduction from total equity.
l) Impairment (continued)
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre–tax discount rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that
does not generate largely independent cash flows, the
recoverable amount is determined for the cash–generating
unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement
based on the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds
the recoverable amount. Impairment losses recognised in
respect of cash–generating units are allocated first to reduce
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to
cash–generating unit (or group of units) and then, to reduce
the carrying amount of other assets in the unit (or group of
units) on a pro rata basis.
When a decline in fair value of an available–for–sale financial
asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is
objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative
loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised
in the income statement even though the financial asset has
not been derecognised. The amount of cumulative loss that is
recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the
acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment
loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the
income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at 
amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in 
recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. An 
impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity 
instrument classified as available for sale is not reversed 
through profit or loss. Similarly an impairment loss in respect 
of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets an impairment loss is reversed if
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine
the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 53 54 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The fair values of the ESOS and Sharesave schemes at the
date of grant are estimated using the Black-Scholes pricing
model. The fair value of the L TIP scheme is estimated using a
model that factors in the probabilities of achieving the T otal
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance conditions. For all
schemes the fair value determined at grant date is expensed
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an
estimate of the number of shares that are expected to
eventually vest. Any significant changes in the earnings per
share criteria are considered at each reporting date and the
calculations updated accordingly.
o) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is
material, provisions are determined by discounting the
expected future cash flows at a pre–tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and,
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
i) Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group
has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the
restructuring has either commenced or has been announced
publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations
under the contract.
p) Government grants
Government grants received are recognised in the balance
sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable
assurance that it will be received and that the Group will
comply with the conditions attached to it. Grants that
compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised
in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same
periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that
compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised
in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful
life of the asset.
q) Trade receivables and trade payables
T rade receivables and trade payables are stated at their
amortised cost less any impairments.
r) Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans
are recognised initially at fair value. Such borrowings are
subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference
between initial fair value and redemption value recognised
in the income statement over the period to redemption
using the effective interest rate method.
iv) Dividends
Dividends on preference share capital are recognised as
a liability and expensed on an accruals basis. They are
recognised in the income statement as finance costs as
they relate to the liability element of the share capital.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the period
in which they are paid, or approved by shareholders in a
general meeting.
n) Employee benefits
i) Defined contribution plans
For defined contribution pension schemes operated by the
Group, amounts payable are charged to the income statement
as they fall due.
ii) Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit 
pension plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future
benefit that employees have earned in return for their service 
in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan 
assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is 
the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds 
that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the 
Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified
actuary using the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in
which they occur in the Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense.
Some of the Group’s subsidiaries are also members of state
run schemes. These are accounted for as unfunded defined
benefit schemes.
iii) Share–based payments
Equity-settled transactions
IFRS 2 ‘Share based payments’ has been applied to share
options granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at
1 January 2005. Members of the Group’s senior management 
team are entitled to participate in the Executive Share Option 
Scheme (ESOS) and the Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP). 
In addition, employees are able to participate in the 
Sharesave scheme.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 54 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   55
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability
method, providing for temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The
amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount
of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the
initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets
and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit,
other than in a business combination; and differences relating
to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will
probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against
which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the
related tax benefit will be realised.
w) Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is
engaged in providing products or services (business segment),
or in providing products or services within a particular
economic environment (geographical segment), which is
subject to risks and rewards that are different from those
of other segments.
x) Tooling
As a part of contracts with customers, the Group manufacture
tools for use in specific projects. The customer funds this
manufacture, either wholly or in part, and it is anticipated that
the tool will remain in the Group’s custody for use in
manufacturing the related component.
When the risks and rewards associated with a tooling project
are principally retained by the Group, these tooling costs are
capitalised within property, plant and equipment (as plant and
equipment) and once completion has been agreed with the
customer, the profitability of the tooling contract is assessed
and any impairment provision recognised (see accounting
policy on impairment). The capitalised costs, net of any
impairment provision, are then depreciated over the life of
the related project, which is usually 5 to 8 years.
Contributions received from customers to fund the tooling
projects are recorded as deferred income and credited to
turnover over the life of the related project, which is usually
5 to 8 years.
s) Revenue
Revenue from manufactured parts and engineering services
is accounted for on delivery of the respective goods and
services, net of sales taxes, discounts and rebates. T ooling
revenue is recognised on acceptance of the completed tool
by the customer, except where the tools are to be invoiced
over the production life of the vehicle, in which case the
revenue is recognised over such production life. Revenue
from claims income is recognised in the period in which it
is agreed.
t) Rental income
Rental income from properties held under operating leases
sublet to third parties is recognised in the income statement
on a straight–line basis over the term of the lease.
u) Expenses
i) Lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in 
the income statement on a straight–line basis over the term 
of the lease.
Minimum lease payments on assets held under finance
leases are apportioned between the finance charge and the
reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is
allocated to each period during the lease term so as to
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability.
ii) Net financing costs
Interest income and expense is recognised in the income
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Financial expense
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings,
dividends on preference shares, foreign exchange losses,
losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the
income statement, financing costs relating to employee
benefits, finance costs arising in relation to debt restructuring
and costs in relation to the unwinding of discounted provisions.
Financial income
Financial income represents interest receivable on cash and
cash equivalents, foreign exchange gains, gains on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the income statement and
return on assets held in defined benefit schemes.
v) Taxation
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is
recognised in the income statement except to the extent that
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case
it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable
in respect of previous years.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 55 56 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
1. Segment reporting
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s
business and geographical segments. The primary format,
business segments, is based on the Group’s management
and internal reporting structure.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly
attributable to a segment as well as those that can be
allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise
mainly corporate assets and expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during
the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be
used for more than one period. This includes tangible fixed
asset additions, software additions and capitalised
development cost additions.
The Sonas plants have not been treated as a discontinued
operation under IFRS 5 as they do not represent a major line of
business or geographical area of operations, the disposal was
not part of a coordinated single plan to dispose of a separate
major line of business and they were not acquired exclusively
with a view to resale.
Business segments
The Group is split into the Automotive and Other sectors for
business segment analysis. Pending the completion of the
disposal of the low-tonnage plants to Sonas, the businesses
in question had been classified for the interim results at 30
September 2006 as assets held for sale. The disposal having
been subsequently completed, the businesses have been
disclosed separately in the business segment information.
They were previously included in the Automotive segment.
Geographical segments
The Group operates in two main geographical areas being the
UK and mainland Europe. In mainland Europe manufacturing
facilities and engineering departments are located in France,
Germany, Italy, Czech Republic, Spain and T urkey.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical
segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical
location of customers. Segment assets are based on the
geographical location of the assets.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 56 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   57
1. Segment reporting (continued)
a) Business segments
Automotive Businesses
Automotive Other operations and other disposed of Consolidated
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue 642.3 310.6 16.4 15.0 658.7 325.6 51.3 91.6 710.0 417.2
Segment operating 
profit/(loss) before 
non-recurring items 14.5 14.9 2.7 2.8 17.2 17.7 (2.0) 4.1 15.2 21.8
Restructuring costs (65.8) – (0.2) – (66.0) – – – (66.0) –
Impairment (9.3) –– – (9.3) –– – (9.3) –
MG Rover related costs – – – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Segment result (60.6) 14.9 2.5 2.8 (58.1) 17.7 (2.0) 3.7 (60.1) 21.4
Unallocated expenses – (0.3)
Group operating 
(loss)/profit (60.1) 21.1
Loss on disposal 
of operations – (0.8) – – – (0.8) (26.4) – (26.4) (0.8)
(Loss)/profit before 
financing costs (86.5) 20.3
Net financing costs (12.9) (6.0)
(Loss)/profit before tax (99.4) 14.3
Taxation 4.2 (4.1)
(Loss)/profit for the period (95.2) 10.2
Segment Assets 650.4 322.9 15.3 5.6 665.7 328.5 – 55.2 665.7 383.7
Unallocated assets 17.7 9.1
Total assets 683.4 392.8
Segment liabilities (354.0) (133.9) (2.0) (2.1) (356.0) (136.0) – (28.2) (356.0) (164.2)
Unallocated liabilities (193.2) (140.7)
Total liabilities (549.2) (304.9)
Segment capital 
expenditure 57.6 28.8 0.6 0.1 58.2 28.9 0.7 0.9 58.9 29.8
Total capital expenditure 58.9 29.8
Segment depreciation 
and amortisation 35.9 24.8 0.4 0.4 36.3 25.2 – 2.7 36.3 27.9
Unallocated depreciation 
and amortisation 0.2 0.2
Total depreciation 36.5 28.1
Inventory write offs (note 12) and impairment of receivables (note 13) relate to Automotive
Inter-segment sales from the Sonas plants to Automotive were £1 1 .3 million in 2007 (2006: £17.6 million)
b) Geographical segments – Automotive and Other
UK Mainland Europe Other regions Consolidated
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue 43.2 30.7 598.1 280.9 17.4 14.0 658.7 325.6
Segment assets 61.2 32.9 619.3 298.6 2.9 6.1 683.4 337.6
Segment liabilities (215.1) (122.1) (333.1) (151.4) (1.0) (3.2) (549.2) (276.7)
Capital expenditure 3.0 2.3 54.9 26.5 1.0 0.1 58.9 28.9
Sales from the Sonas plants in 2007 were £10.9 million in the UK and £40.4 million in mainland Europe (2006: £18.1 million and 
£73.5 million respectively.) 
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 57 58 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
2. Operating Profit
2007 2006
Restructuring MG Rover 
Underlying and Impairment Total Underlying related costs Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1 710.0 710.0 417.2 – 417.2
Cost of Sales (583.4) (60.2) (643.6) (328.2) – (328.2)
Gross profit/(loss) 126.6 (60.2) 66.4 89.0 – 89.0
Distribution expenses (14.1) – (14.1) (9.6) – (9.6)
Administrative expenses 3,4 (97.3) (15.1) (112.4) (57.9) (0.4) (58.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 1 15.2 (75.3) (60.1) 21.5 (0.4) 21.1
Net foreign exchange losses in operating profit were £0.2 million (2006: £0.1 million)
3. Personnel expenses, audit and non-audit fees
The average number of persons, including directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2007 2006
Number Number
Production 5,327 3,292
Administration 1,322 1,099
6,649 4,391
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Wages and salaries 140.2 94.3
Social security costs 35.1 22.7
Pension scheme costs 17 1.3 1.7
176.6 118.7
Auditors’ fees 
Fees payable for the audit of the company accounts     0.1 0.1
Fees payable for other services:
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 0.6 0.3
Other services 0.8 0.1
Audit fees in respect of the Wagon Pension Fund – –
1.5 0.5
Other services includes £0.7 million paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates in respect of fees included in the cost of investment
in relation to the Oxford Automotive A/S acquisition (2006: nil).
4. Restructuring, impairment and MG Rover related costs
2007 2006
£m £m
Restructuring costs 66.0 –
Impairment 9.3 –
MG Rover related costs – 0.4
75.3 0.4
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 58 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   59
Restructuring
Following the acquisition of Oxford Automotive in April 2006, Wagon launched a comprehensive restructuring programme
encompassing a series of integration initiatives, the analysis of the Enlarged Group manufacturing footprint and the synergies
to be obtained by combining the two former French operational centres. As a result, restructuring costs of £15.1 million were
recorded in administrative expenses related to the co-location of the French headquarters and other headquarter-related integration
costs, and £50.9 million related to the industrial restructuring involving production transfers between sites and headcount
rationalisation. As previously announced, the Group restructuring when completed will see its headcount reduced by around 900
employees in total.
Included in the above charge is £14.2m relating to the Fleurus plant. The loss-making Fleurus plant has seen its largest production
of door frames for Ford Saarlouis (Germany) transferred to the Group’s Waldaschaff site between October 2006 and January 2007.
Following this transfer, the Fleurus head count has been reduced by more than half and its remaining assets written-off. The site
will continue to operate at a significantly reduced rate for Ford Belgium and Renault France until its complete closure in mid-2008.
Impairment
Based on current projections, the estimated future cash flows, discounted at 10% being the Group’s weighted average cost of
capital, of the Fontaine (France) site show a deficit when compared to the carrying value of the site’s assets. The resulting
impairment has been recognised in full. 
MG Rover related costs
Following the demise of MG Rover in 2005, provisions were made for debts and stocks and impairment of relevant assets and
tooling. During the year to 31 March 2006, further costs of £0.4 million were incurred in relation to redundancies and supplier claims.
5. Loss on disposal of businesses
2007 2006
£m £m
Loss on disposal of businesses 26.4 0.8
2007
In the year ended 31 March 2007, as part of its restructuring programme, the Group divested five low-tonnage stampings plants in
France (Beaucourt, Bessines and La Souterraine) and the UK (Tyseley and Wantage) to Sonas. The prospect of this was announced
in the financial statements to the year ended 31 March 2006, and generated a loss on disposal of £ 26.4 million. 
Due to this management decision the values of the assets and liabilities of the plants were redeemed through the sale proceeds
rather than continued use in the business. As a result the assets and liabilities in relation to these plants were reclassified as assets
and liabilities held for sale in the balance sheet as reported in the Interim Report 2007. All depreciation and amortisation in relation to
these assets was halted and the value of these assets and liabilities was adjusted to their fair value less costs to sell based on the
proposed disposal. 
The loss on disposal includes £2.0 million of deferred consideration recognised under the terms of the sale. Separately under the
terms of the agreement, the Group has provided a loan of £6.1m to the the buyer. This is recoverable over the period to September
2009 and incurs interest at between 4 and 5 percent over Euribor.
2006
The loss on disposal of operations of £0.8 million in the year ended 31 March 2006 related to the sale or closure of two machine and
tool building facilities in France at a loss of £0.5 million and a loss of £0.3 million on the sale of the US engineering consulting business. 
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 59 60 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
6. Net financial expense
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank interest receivable 1.0 1.8
Return on assets of defined benefit scheme (note 17) 6.3 5.7
Financial income 7.3 7.5
Bank loans and overdraft (10.4) (5.6)
Interest cost relating to defined benefit pension scheme (note 17) (6.3) (6.3)
Finance cost in relation to unwinding of discounted provisions (1.5) –
Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts (0.5) (0.1)
Preference share dividends (1.5) (1.5)
Financial expenses (20.2) (13.5)
Net financing costs (12.9) (6.0)
In the year ended 31 March 2007, £1.9 million of non-recurring finance charges were incurred and are included in the bank loans
and overdraft charge above (2006: nil)
7. Income tax
Recognised in the income statement:
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
UK current tax expense – –
Foreign current tax (credit)/expense
Current year (5.4) 3.2
Adjustments for prior years (2.2) (0.3)
Total current tax (credit)/expense (7.6) 2.9
Deferred tax expense 11
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.0 1.0
Prior year adjustments 0.4 0.2
3.4 1.2
Total income (credit)/tax expense in the income statement (4.2) 4.1
No amounts were charged/credited directly to equity.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2007 2006
£m £m
(Loss)/profit before tax (99.4) 14.3
Income tax (credit)/expense using the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2006: 30%) (29.8) 4.3
Non-deductible expenses 0.3 0.5
Tax effects of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised – (0.9)
Tax effects of movements in temporary differences not previously recognised – (1.3)
Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 26.6 1.3
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.5 0.3
Prior year adjustments (1.8) (0.1)
(4.2) 4.1
Notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:06  Page 60 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   61
8. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Long Short Plant and other
Freehold leasehold leaseholdequipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 37.8 2.4 8.0 229.3 277.5
Exchange adjustment 0.9 0.1 0.1 3.5 4.6
Businesses acquired – – – 0.8 0.8
Additions 2.4 0.1 – 23.1 25.6
Reclassification 0.2 – – (0.2) –
Disposals (0.4) (0.4) – (17.2) (18.0)
Businesses disposed of – (0.8) – (2.0) (2.8)
At 31 March 2006 40.9 1.4 8.1 237.3 287.7
At 1 April 2006 40.9 1.4 8.1 237.3 287.7
Exchange adjustment (1.6) – (0.2) (6.2) (8.0)
Businesses acquired 26.9 0.5 0.1 61.3 88.8
Additions 3.5 – – 50.8 54.3
Reclassification 1.3 – – (1.3) –
Disposals (4.9) (36.3) (41.2)
Businesses disposed of (4.0) (0.7) (4.5) (47.6) (56.8)
At 31 March 2007 62.1 1.2 3.5 258.0 324.8
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 7.6 0.9 4.7 122.4 135.6
Exchange adjustment 0.2 – 0.1 1.8 2.1
Businesses acquired – – – 0.5 0.5
Charge for year 2.0 0.2 0.4 23.0 25.6
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) – (11.2) (11.4)
Businesses disposed of – (0.6) – (1.4) (2.0)
At 31 March 2006 9.7 0.4 5.2 135.1 150.4
At 1 April 2006 9.7 0.4 5.2 135.1 150.4
Exchange adjustment (0.2) – (0.2) (2.5) (2.9)
Charge for year 3.8 0.1 – 29.5 33.4
Impairment – – – 8.6 8.6
Disposals (2.1) – – (15.6) (17.7)
Businesses disposed of (2.1) (0.3) (3.3) (30.7) (36.4)
At 31 March 2007 9.1 0.2 1.7 124.4 135.4
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2005 30.2 1.5 3.3 106.9 141.9
At 31 March 2006 31.2 1.0 2.9 102.2 137.3
At 1 April 2006 31.2 1.0 2.9 102.2 137.3
At 31 March 2007 53.0 1.0 1.8 133.6 189.4
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 61 62 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
8. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
The value of land included in the above figures which is not depreciated is £10.8 million (2006: £8.0 million).
Leased plant and equipment
The net book value of plant and other equipment includes £9.5 million (2006: £3.0 million) in respect of assets held under finance
leases and hire purchase agreements. The lease equipment secures lease obligations (see note 15). The related depreciation
charge was £0.9 million (2006: £0.7 million).
Property, plant and equipment under construction
At 31 March 2007 the value of property, plant and equipment in the course of construction, and therefore not yet depreciated,
amounted to £12.2 million (2006: £15.0 million).
Capital commitments
Group capital expenditure contracted for and for which no provision has been made in these accounts amounted to £4.6 million
(2006: £6.0 million). 
Depreciation charge
The depreciation charge is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost of sales 32.8 24.8
Administrative expenses 0.6 0.8
33.4 25.6
The impairment in fixed assets of £8.6 million is recognised in cost of sales.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 62 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   63
9. Intangible assets
Development Customer
Software Goodwill expenditure relationships Patents Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 4.7 37.0 11.9 – – 53.6
Exchange adjustment 0.1 – 0.2 – – 0.3
Additions 0.4 3.4 3.8 2.9 1.9 12.4
Disposals (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Businesses acquired 0.1 – – – – 0.1
At 31 March 2006 5.1 40.4 15.9 2.9 1.9 66.2
At 1 April 2006 5.1 40.4 15.9 2.9 1.9 66.2
Exchange adjustment – (3.9) (0.3) – – (4.2)
Additions 0.7 97.3 3.9 – – 101.9
Disposals (1.1) – (5.6) – – (6.7)
Businesses acquired 1.3 – 0.6 – – 1.9
At 31 March 2007 6.0 133.8 14.5 2.9 1.9 159.1
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 April 2005 3.5 2.2 2.3 – – 8.0
Exchange adjustment 0.1 – 0.1 – – 0.2
Charge for the year 0.6 – 1.7 0.1 0.1 2.5
Disposals (0.2) – – – – (0.2)
Businesses acquired 0.1 – – – 0.1
At 31 March 2006 4.1 2.2 4.1 0.1 0.1 10.6
At 1 April 2006 4.1 2.2 4.1 0.1 0.1 10.6
Exchange adjustment – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Charge for the year 1.2 – 1.4 0.3 0.2 3.1
Disposals (1.1) – (1.7) – – (2.8)
Provisions for impairment – – 0.7 – – 0.7
At 31 March 2007 4.2 2.2 4.4 0.4 0.3 11.5
Net book value
At 1 April 2005 1.2 34.8 9.6 – – 45.6
At 31 March 2006 1.0 38.2 11.8 2.8 1.8 55.6
At 1 April 2006 1.0 38.2 11.8 2.8 1.8 55.6
At 31 March 2007 1.8 131.6 10.1 2.5 1.6 147.6
Goodwill additions in the year include £96.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, and £1.0 million arising on
fair value adjustments in relation to warranty claim in respect of FKT GmbH T eknische Pro, an acquisition in the prior year (see note 25).
The amortisation and impairment charge is reported within costs of sales in the income statement in the current year and within
administrative expenses in the prior year.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 63 64 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
9. Intangible assets (continued)
Impairment tests for cash–generating units
containing goodwill
Goodwill within the Group arose from the acquisition of:
– The YMOS plants consisting of Waldaschaff, a manufacturing
plant in Germany, and Fleurus, a manufacturing plant
in Belgium;
– The Aries plants, consisting of French manufacturing plants
and Fiano, a manufacturing plant in Italy;
– The FKT plant in Pförring, Germany;
– The Oxford Automotive plants in France, Germany and T urkey 
(for more detail on this acquisition, see note 25).
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been
allocated for impairment testing purposes to the Automotive
business unit which is the main reportable segment. This
represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill
is monitored for internal management purposes as:
– Individual plants or groups of plants do not have autonomy to
negotiate prices and to initiate or terminate contracts with
customers
– The decision on where to locate production contracts is taken
by the Group’s executives based on, inter alia, the availability of
capacity and the customer’s preferred location
– There is significant integration in the operations of plants and
ongoing transfer of projects and activities between plants.
Where components are supplied from one Group plant to
another, there is no active external market for these
components as they are fabricated for assembly into
components designed specifically for customer products.
– Sales, purchasing, engineering and tooling projects are
managed centrally 
Impairment testing calculations assess cash flow projections
based on actual operating results and the three year business
plan. Cash flows in perpetuity are then extrapolated based on the
forecasts for the last year in the three year business plan. A pre-
tax discount rate of 10%, being the Group’s weighted average
cost of capital, has been used in discounting the projected
cash flows. 
The main assumptions and approach to determining their values
is the volume trend on future and current projects. The values in
the calculation have been based on the latest forecasts from the
OEM and other external sources of automotive industry
forecasts, for the next two years. The growth rate of 2.5% used
in the calculations for the following years is based on average
growth rates forecast for the company following market trends
adjusted for actual experience. 
The recoverable amount of the unit is greater than its carrying
value by £20.0 million. Any adverse change in assumptions could
reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount. In order
to gauge sensitivity to likely and potential changes in trading
conditions, the impact of changes in revenue have been
reviewed. The group considers that a reduction of £50.0 million
in annual revenues could lead to an impairment.
Research and development expenditure
The Group charged £10.3 million of research and development
cost to the income statement during the year to 31 March 2007 
(2006: £5.0 million).
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  14/6/07  14:22  Page 64 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   65
10. Investments
Investments
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006 2.6
Disposals (2.6)
At 31 March 2007 –
Provisions for impairment
At 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006 2.6
Disposals (2.6)
At 31 March 2007 –
Net book value
At 1 April 2005, 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 –
Investments in the year ended 31 March 2006 represented an 18.2 per cent shareholding in Accra T eknik AB. This shareholding was
sold in the year to 31 March 2007 at a value of £0.2 million. As the investment was held at an impaired value of £nil in the accounts
£0.2 million of profit on sale of investment has been reported within the administrative costs line of the income statement.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 65 66 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
11. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment (0.1) – 5.5 6.8 5.4 6.8
Intangible assets (0.1) (0.4) 5.4 1.5 5.3 1.1
Inventories (0.6) – – – (0.6) –
Provisions (8.1) – 0.1 – (8.0) –
Employee benefits – (1.4) – 0.6 – (0.8)
Other items (0.9) – 1.7 0.3 0.8 0.3
Tax value of losses carried forward (8.2) (1.1) – – (8.2) (1.1)
Total tax (assets)/liabilities (18.0) (2.9) 12.7 9.2 (5.3) 6.3
Set off tax 8.9 2.1 (8.9) (2.1) – –
Net tax (assets)/liabilities (9.1) (0.8) 3.8 7.1 (5.3) 6.3
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
2007 2006
£m £m
Deductible timing differences (19.1) (12.0)
Tax losses (31.5) (12.8)
(50.6) (24.8)
The tax losses and deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation. Deferred tax assets have not been
recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available in the relevant territories
against which the Group can utilise the benefit there from. An unrecognised deferred tax asset of £4.6 million (2006: £6.6 million)
is included in respect of the liability on the UK defined benefit scheme.
A deferred tax liability of £0.4 million has been recognised in respect of withholding tax arising on a portion of the undistributed
earnings of Oxford Mekanizma Metal Isleri Ve Endustri Ticaret Anenim Sirketi (Turkey), which are likely to be remitted in the
foreseeable future. No deferred tax liability has been recognised in relation to the Group’s other investments as the Group controls
whether any liability will be incurred and it is satisfied that none should arise in the foreseeable future.
Following the announcement in the UK budget review, the UK rate of Corporation Tax will move to 28% on 1 April 2008. There are
no deferred tax assets or liabilities recognised in the UK and therefore the forthcoming change in the Corporation Tax rate will have
no significant impact. 
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 66 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   67
11. Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Balance
Balance Businesses Exchange Recognised 31 March
1 April 2006 acquired Adjustment in income 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 6.8 0.6 (0.1) (2.0) 5.3
Intangible assets 1.1 4.0 0.1 – 5.2
Inventories – (0.5) – (0.1) (0.6)
Provisions – (14.5) 0.6 5.8 (8.1)
Employee benefits (0.8) – – 0.9 0.1
Other items 0.3 (4.5) 0.1 5.1 1.0
Tax value of losses carried forward (1.1) (0.8) – (6.3) (8.2)
6.3 (15.7) 0.7 3.4 5.3
Balance
Balance Businesses Exchange Recognised 31 March 
1 April 2005 acquired Adjustment in income 2006
£m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 4.3 – – 2.5 6.8
Intangible assets – 1.5 – (0.4) 1.1
Employee benefits (0.3) – – (0.5) (0.8)
Other items (0.4) – – 0.7 0.3
Tax value of losses carried forward – – – (1.1) (1.1)
3.6 1.5 – 1.2 6.3
12. Inventories
2007 2006
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 15.9 9.5
Work in progress 12.3 4.4
Finished goods and goods for resale 6.7 6.2
Total non–tooling stock 34.9 20.1
Tooling stock 24.1 13.6
59.0 33.7
The value of inventories written down in the year was £3.2 million (2006: Nil).
Inventories to the value of £580.2 million were expensed in the year (2006: £328.2 million).
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  14/6/07  14:23  Page 67 68 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
13. T rade and other receivables
2007 2006
£m £m
Current assets
Trade receivables – gross 187.0 105.0
Less: provisions for impairment (2.5) (1.7)
Trade receivables – net 184.5 103.3
Other receivables 4.4 12.2
Prepayments and accrued income 7.1 5.0
196.0 120.5
Non-current assets
Trade and other receivables 6.1 –
The charge in the income statement in relation to impairment of trade and other receivables totalled £0.8 million in the year to
31 March 2007 (2006: £1.6 million credit).
Trade and other receivables due after more than one year of £6.1m are in respect of the loan to Sonas (2006: nil).
14. Cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank balances 68.5 38.3
Cash and cash equivalents 68.5 38.3
Bank overdrafts (4.1) (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 64.4 37.7
15. Borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest–bearing loans and borrowings. For more
information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk see note 19.
2006
2007 (restated)
£m £m
Current liabilities:
Bank overdrafts 4.1 0.6
Finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.6
Preference share dividend liability 1.5 1.5
6.3 2.7
Non–current liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 154.6 80.7
Finance lease liabilities 3.7 0.5
Preference share dividend liability 12.5 12.5
170.8 93.7
The bank overdrafts are contained within cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows for the Group (see note 14)
because they are considered to form an integral part of the Group’s cash management strategy. 
On 7 June 2007, heads of terms were signed on a new v246.4 million banking facility, the term of which is to 31 December 2008.
Interest is payable at the base rate plus 2 to 2.5%. The fee structure includes the issue to lenders of warrants over unissued
ordinary shares equivalent to 4.99 per cent of Wagon Plc’s issued ordinary share capital.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 68 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   69
15. Borrowings (continued)
T erms and repayment schedule
The maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings based on re–pricing date is as follows:
Preference
Bank share
Finance Bank and other dividend
lease liabilities overdrafts loans liability Total
Borrowings analysed by re-pricing date £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2007
Borrowings due within one year 0.7 4.1 – 1.5 6.3
Borrowings due after more than one year:
Between one and two years – – 154.6 1.5 156.1
Between two and three years – – – 1.5 1.5
Between three and four years – – – 1.5 1.5
Between four and five years – – – 1.5 1.5
After more than five years 3.7 – – 6.5 10.2
3.7 – 154.6 12.5 170.8
At 31 March 2006
Borrowings due within one year 0.6 0.6 34.3 1.5 37.0
Borrowings due after more than one year:
Between one and two years 0.5 – – 1.5 2.0
Between two and three years – – 46.4 1.5 47.9
Between three and four years – – – 1.5 1.5
Between four and five years – – – 1.5 1.5
After more than five years – – – 6.5 6.5
0.5 – 46.4 12.5 59.4
Minimum 
lease payments Interest Principal
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2007
Less than one year 0.7 – 0.7
Between one and two years – – –
After more than five years 3.7 0.3 3.3
4.4 0.3 4.0
At 31 March 2006
Less than one year 0.7 0.1 0.6
Between one and two years 0.6 0.1 0.5
1.3 0.2 1.1
Under the terms of finance lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 69 70 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
16. Trade and other payables
2007 2006
£m £m
Current liabilities:
Trade payables 166.2 102.8
Non–trade payables 33.0 27.8
Accrued expenses and deferred income 50.6 28.6
249.8 159.2
Non–current liabilities:
Non–trade payables 1.8 1.7
All non–current liabilities are due between one and two years.
17. Employee benefits
The liability for employee benefits within the balance sheet consists of the following balances:
2007 2006
£m £m
Group Defined Benefit Schemes
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations (14.7) (8.9)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (125.2) (124.5)
Fair value of plan assets 109.8 102.7
Present value of net obligations (30.1) (30.7)
Due in less than one year (3.9) (4.0)
Due after one year (26.2) (26.7)
(30.1) (30.7)
Of the £30.1 million (2006: £30.7 million) value of net obligations, £15.4 million (2006: £21.8 million) relates to the closed defined
benefit plan in the UK.
i) Retirement benefit schemes:
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK (“The DB Plan”). The assets are held in separate trustee
administered funds and pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the
projected unit method.
In addition to the DB Plan the Group’s overseas subsidiaries operate pension arrangements appropriate to the circumstances
prevailing within individual countries. These schemes are unfunded multi employer schemes run by the state. The annual actuarial
liability is funded by insurance premiums or provisions made by the subsidiaries concerned. These are accounted for as unfunded
defined benefit schemes. This includes similar schemes acquired as part of the purchase of Oxford Automotive A/S.
The Group also operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension cost charge for the period includes contributions
payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to £0.5 million (2006: £0.1 million).
Notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:07  Page 70 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   71
17. Employee benefits (continued)
The movements in the present value of the Group defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 April (133.4) (123.8)
Acquisitions (7.2) –
Businesses disposed of 1.1 –
Current service cost (1.2) (1.3)
Past service cost – (0.3)
Interest cost (6.3) (6.3)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 3.4 (3.4)
Benefits paid 4.0 2.8
Contributions by members (0.8) (1.0)
Settlement, curtailment 0.4 –
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1)
At 31 March (139.9) (133.4)
The movements in fair value of the DB Plan assets are as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1 April 102.7 85.3
Expected return on plan assets 6.3 5.7
Actuarial (losses)/gains (0.5) 9.2
Contributions by employer 4.5 4.3
Contributions by members 0.8 1.0
Benefits paid (4.0) (2.8)
At 31 March 109.8 102.7
The expense recognised in the income statement was as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost 1.2 1.3
Past service cost – 0.3
Settlement, curtailment (0.4) –
Recognised in arriving at operating (loss)/profit 0.8 1.6
Interest on the DB Plan obligation 6.3 6.3
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets (6.3) (5.7)
Other finance cost – 0.6
0.8 2.2
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 71 72 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
17. Employee benefits (continued)
The current service cost is recognised in administrative expenses, interest on the DB Plan obligations is recognised in financial
expense and expected return on the DB Plan assets is recognised in financial income.
The cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the statement of total recognised income and expense since 1 April 2004,
the transition date to adopted IFRSs, are £7.5 million gains (2006: £5.4 million gains), of which £2.9 million (2006: £5.8 million) was
recognised in the year. 
The fair value of the DB Plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Equities 63.7 58.2
Corporate bonds 46.0 44.3
Cash 0.1 0.2
109.8 102.7
Actual return on plan assets 6.5 15.7
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is
calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
The major assumptions used by the actuary in this valuation were:
2007 2006
(% p.a) (% p.a)
Inflation 3.2 2.9
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.2 3.9
Rate if increase to pensions in payment 3.1 2.8
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.4 5.0
Expected rate of return on scheme assets 6.1
Equities 7.8 7.4
Corporate bonds 4.8 4.4
Cash 4.8 4.4
Also the mortality rates used in the calculations form an assumption on the actuary’s behalf. The assumptions used are:
Mortality before retirement
Men: Standard table AM92 Ultimate
Women: Standard table AF92 Ultimate
Mortality in retirement
Current pensioners: Standard tables PMA92 and PFA92 projected forward to calendar year 2015, allowing for improvements in
mortality in line with the P92 Short Cohort improvement factors, also scaled up by 12.5%.
Future pensioners: Standard tables PMA92 and PFA92 projected forward to calendar year 2025, allowing for improvements in
mortality in line with the P92 Short Cohort improvement factors, also scaled up by 12.5%.
The assumed life expectancy for an individual aged 65 on this basis is set out below:
Male Female
Current pensioners 20.1 22.8
Future pensioners 20.7 23.5
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 72 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 73
17. Employee benefits (continued)
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (139.9) (133.4) (123.8)
Fair value of plan assets 109.8 102.7 85.3
Deficit (30.1) (30.7) (38.5)
The experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 0.7 3.4 4.1
Experience adjustments on plan assets (0.5) 9.4 1.9
Contributions in the financial year to 31 March 2008 are expected to be £3.9 million.
Share based payments:
The Group has a number of share option schemes established which entitle key management and senior employees to
purchase shares in the entity. Within these schemes there are some share options which were granted before 7 November 2002
and had not vested at 1 January 2005. In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2 the recognition and
measurement principles of IFRS 2 have not been applied to these grants. The other schemes are all accounted for using the
requirements of IFRS 2.
The Wagon 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and The Wagon 1994 Share Savings Scheme were approved by shareholders
on 7 September 1994. The Wagon 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme and The Wagon 2004 Share Savings Scheme were
approved by shareholders on 27 July 2004.
The options under the share savings schemes are exercisable by the grantees (provided they remain in the Group’s employment)
within six months of the maturity date of the three to seven year bonus due under the relevant sharesave contract.
The options under the other schemes, which include the 1994 and 2004 Executive Schemes, are exercisable by the grantees (provided
they remain in the Group’s employment) at any time after the expiration of three years but within ten years from the date of grant.
Under the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Halifax EES Trustees International Limited (formerly Mourant ECS Trustees
(Jersey) Limited) may, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, grant conditional awards to acquire ordinary
shares in the Company. The number of shares awarded to a participant is based on defined maximum limits. The number of
awards shares which may vest to a participant at the end of a three year retention period will be determined by reference to the
extent to which preset targets relating to the performance of the Company over the fixed three year period are satisfied. The first
conditional award was made on 21 July 2000.
No shares have been issued under the LTIP . The LTIP awards granted in July 2000 and June 2001 did not vest following the failure
to achieve the required performance target. No shares have been issued under the LTIP . The LTIP awards granted in July 2000 and
June 2001 did not vest following the failure to achieve the required performance target. The exercise price is nil, however, the
rules require a participant to pay £1 for each allocation.
Under the Executive Co-Investment Plan, selected senior executives may elect to commute a proportion of up to 50 per cent of
their annual bonus, net of payroll taxes, in the acquisition of “bonus award shares” in the Company. If the executive remains with
the Group for a further period of three years and retains the bonus award shares during this period, the executive may be awarded
a number of additional “matching shares”. Such matching shares were last awarded in June 2004.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:07  Page 73 74 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
17. Employee benefits (continued)
The following share options were outstanding at 31 March:
Date of grant Number of ordinary
Subscription shares of 25p each
price per share 2007 2006
Executive scheme 1994
21 July 1997 221.50p – 5,000
3 August 1998 307.50p 21,145 21,145
2 December 1999 266.50p 29,134 38,177
29 June 2000 173.50p 71,084 87,246
17 July 2001 218.50p 74,185 116,974
16 July 2002 182.50p 147,382 208,052
8 July 2003 139.50p 76,416 140,107
Executive scheme 2004
22 September 2004 181.00p 195,078 195,078
5 January 2005 174.00p 250,133 450,916
6 July 2005 166.00p 384,494 596,615
5 July 2006 227.00p 657,578 –
The Wagon 2000 Long Term Incentive Plan
6 July 2005 Nil 307,470 307,470
5 July 2006 Nil 257,885 –
The Wagon 2000 Co–Investment Plan
6 July 2005 Nil 66,130 75,490
5 July 2006 Nil 154,559 –
Share savings scheme 2004
4 February 2005 138.00p 94,918 116,426
Share savings scheme 1994
30 December 1998 180.00p – 4,899
4 February 2000 230.00p 1,278 1,278
5 February 2001 137.00p 1,072 76,281
8 February 2002 206.00p 31,137 32,743
31 January 2003 81.00p 176,441 516,030
4 February 2004 155.00p 90,201 114,239
3,087,720 3,104,166
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 74 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 75
17. Employee benefits (continued)
For the share options that fall under the requirements of IFRS 2 the number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
2007 2007 2006 2006
(pence) (‘000s) (pence) (‘000s)
Executive schemes
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 168.0 1,383 166.9 980
Forfeited during the period 195.9 (896) 155.9 (194)
Granted during the period 227.0 1,077 166.0 597
Outstanding at the end of the period 193.5 1,564 168.0 1,383
Exercisable at the end of the period –– ––
LTIP Schemes
Outstanding at the beginning of the period Nil 307 Nil 571
Forfeited during the period Nil – Nil (571)
Granted during the period Nil 258 Nil 307
Outstanding at the end of the period Nil 565 Nil 307
Exercisable at the end of the period –– ––
Co-Investment Schemes
Outstanding at the beginning of the period Nil 75 ––
Forfeited during the period Nil (9) ––
Granted during the period Nil 155 Nil 75
Outstanding at the end of the period Nil 221 Nil 75
Exercisable at the end of the period –– ––
Sharesave schemes
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 101.2 747 100.3 873
Forfeited during the period 129.7 (57) 104.9 (75)
Exercised during the period 81.4 (328) 81.0 (51)
Outstanding at the end of the period 114.4 362 101.2 747
Exercisable at the end of the period – 25 ––
The options outstanding at 31 March 2007 for the Executive schemes have an exercise price in the range of 139.5p to 227.0p
(2006: 139.5p to 181.0p) and a weighted average contract life of 10.0 years (2006: 10.0 years).
The options outstanding at 31 March 2007 for the LTIP schemes all have an exercise price of 0p (2006: 0p) and a weighted average
contract life of 10.0 years (2006: 10.0 years).
The options outstanding at 31 March 2007 for the Co-investment schemes all have an exercise price of 0p (2006: 0p) and a
weighted average contract life of 10.0 years (2006: 10.0 years).
The options outstanding at 31 March 2007 for the Sharesave schemes have an exercise price in the range of 81.0p to 155p (2006:
81.0p to 155.0p) and a weighted average contract life of 7.0 years (2006: 7.0 years).
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:07  Page 75 76 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
17. Employee benefits (continued)
At 31 March 2007 a total of 1,168,278 (2006: 1,168,278) ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25p per share, representing 1.0%
(2006: 2.2%) of the company’s issued share capital were held by Halifax EES Trustees International Limited (formerly Mourant
ECS Trustees (Jersey) Limited) as Trustee to The Wagon Employees’ Share Trust to satisfy obligations in respect of the options
granted above.
The average share price for Wagon plc in the year was 184p (2006: 183p).
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options
granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Black–Scholes formula.
The share prices input into the model are as follows:
2007 2006
Executive schemes
8 July 2003 139.5 139.5
22 September 2004 181.0 181.0
5 January 2005 174.0 174.0
6 July 2005 166.0 166.0
5 July 2006 227.0 –
LTIP schemes
1 December 2002 124.0 124.0
8 July 2003 140.0 140.0
28 June 2004 194.0 194.0
6 July 2005 166.0 166.0
5 July 2006 227.0 –
Co-investment schemes
6 July 2005 166.0 166.0
5 July 2006 227.0 –
Sharesave schemes
31 January 2003 101.3 101.3
4 February 2004 193.8 193.8
4 February 2005 172.5 172.5
The exercise prices input into the formulae were as noted in the table showing each of the outstanding share options above.
The other inputs into the model were a volatility rate of 45 per cent, an expected dividend rate of 5 per cent, a risk free rate of 5.4
per cent and a term of six years for the executive schemes and three years for the LTIP and Sharesave schemes. The volatility rate
used was based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of share options), adjusted for
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
Notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  11:03  Page 76 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   77
17. Employee benefits (continued)
The weighted average fair values of the options granted during the year are as follows:
Weighted Weighted 
average average 
fair values fair values
2007 2006
(pence) (pence)
Executive schemes 97 55
LTIP schemes 203 166
Sharesave schemes ––
Expenses relating to the share option schemes recognised in the incomes statement are as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Share options granted in the year to 31 March 2006 – 0.1
Share options granted in the year to 31 March 2007 0.1 –
Total expense recognised as employee cost 0.1 0.1
18. Provisions
Onerous 
Contracts Restructuring Total
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 –– –
Fair value adjustment 39.5 39.5
Exchange adjustments (1.0) (1.0)
Charge for the year – 41.7 41.7
Unwinding of discount 1.5 – 1.5
Utilised in the year (8.7) – (8.7)
At 31 March 2007 31.3 41.7 73.0
Analysed as:
Current 7.7 41.7 49.4
Non-current 23.6 – 23.6
31.3 41.7 73.0
The restructuring provision relates to the Group’s plans for the integration of the Wagon and Oxford businesses. The restructuring
plan is expected to be completed in the year to March 2008.
The onerous contract provisions are in respect of Oxford Automotive contracts with customers and were recognised as fair value
adjustments. They have been discounted at a rate of 3% and are expected to be utilised by March 2016.
The onerous contract and restructuring provisions were calculated based on detailed plans which included anticipated costs and
timelines. Given the nature and scale of these provisions, there remains an inherent uncertainty that the actual outcome may be
different from the provisions recorded.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 77 78 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
19. Financial instruments
The financial assets and financial liabilities lines in the balance sheet consist of the following items:
2007 2006
£m £m
Financial assets:
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.7 1.1
Aluminium forward contracts 0.1 –
0.8 1.1
Financial liabilities:
Interest rate swaps (2.1) (2.2)
(2.1) (2.2)
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. In the course of its business, the Group is exposed
primarily to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The overall aim of the Group’s financial risk
management policies is to minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance and net assets.
The Group’s treasury department manages the principal financial risks within policies and operating parameters approved by the
Board of Directors. Treasury is not a profit centre and does not enter into speculative transactions, however because exposure to
interest rate, currency and credit risk arise in the normal course of the Group’s business derivative financial instruments are used
to hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, purchase prices of raw materials and interest rates.
a) Interest rate risk
The Group has interest bearing debt that is predominantly foreign currency denominated borrowings for hedging net assets of
overseas operations and sterling borrowings to finance short-term working capital requirements. Such borrowings are subject to
floating rates of interest linked to LIBOR. The Group enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate
exposure. Group policy is to recognise gains and losses on the fair value of the effective portion of the hedging instruments within
equity and to recognise ineffective portions immediately in the income statement.
There were three (2006: two) interest rate hedges in place during the year to 31 March 2007 of which three (2006: one) were
in place at the end of the year. 
The three contracts in place during the year to 31 March 2007 were classified as a cash flow hedge and stated at fair value.
The contracts mature in September 2009. 
The net fair value of swaps at 31 March 2007 was a £2.1 million liability (2006: £2.2 million liability). 
The change in fair value of the hedging contracts from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 amounted to a gain of £0.1 million and was
recognised in the hedging reserve. 
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 78 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   79
19. Financial instruments (continued)
The following table indicates the effective interest rates of income earning financial assets and interest bearing financial liabilities
at the balance sheet date and periods in which they mature based on maturity date or contractual re-pricing date if earlier: 
2007
Effective Less Between Between Between Between After
interest than one and two and three and four and more than
Financial instrument Note rate Total one year two years three years four years five years five years
Cash and cash equivalents 14 1.2% 68.5 68.5 – – – – –
Unsecured bank loans 15
– Euro floating rate loan 4.1% (79.5) – (79.5) – – – –
– GBP floating rate loan 5.8% (29.0) – (29.0) – – – –
– USD floating rate loan 6.0% (1.0) – (1.0) – – – –
– USD fixed rate loan* 6.5% (36.2) – (36.2) – – – –
– Effect of interest rate
swaps – (8.9) – (8.9) – – – –
Bank overdrafts 15 6.3% (4.1) (4.1) – – – – –
Finance lease liabilities* 15 7.3% (4.4) (0.7) – – –– – (3.7)
Preference share 
dividend liability* 15 10.5% (14.0) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (6.5)
(108.6) 62.2 (156.1) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (10.2)
2006
Effective Less Between Between Between Between After
interest than one and two and three and four and more than
Financial instrument Note rate T otal one year two years three years four years five years five years
Cash and cash equivalents 14 1.6% 38.3 38.3 – – – – –
Unsecured bank loans 15
– Euro floating rate loan 2.4% (21.6) (21.6) – – – – –
– GBP floating rate loan 4.4% (11.0) (11.0) – – – – –
– USD floating rate loan 4.0% (1.7) (1.7) – – – – –
– USD fixed rate loan* 6.5% (37.5) – – (37.5) – – –
– Effect of interest rate
swaps – (8.9) – – (8.9) – – –
Bank overdrafts 15 4.4% (0.6) (0.6) – – – – –
Finance lease liabilities* 15 5.9% (1.1) (0.6) (0.5) – – – –
Preference share dividend liability* 15 10.5% (14.0) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (6.5)
(58.1) 1.3 (2.0) (47.9) (1.5) (1.5) (6.5)
*These assets/liabilities bear interest at a fixed rate
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 79 80 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
19. Financial instruments (continued)
b) Currency risk
The Group operates in a number of overseas regions,
primarily mainland Europe. In order to protect the Group’s
Balance Sheet from the impact of foreign exchange rate
volatility, foreign currency denominated net assets of
overseas operations are hedged. Net investment hedging is
achieved through borrowings denominated in the relevant
foreign currencies. Group policy is to recognise gains and
losses from the effective portions of the hedges in equity
and to recognise ineffective portions immediately in the
income statement.
The Group has small and infrequent transactional foreign
currency exposures that are hedged using forward contracts
as described above.
The Group uses foreign forward currency contracts to hedge
its currency exposure which arises on US Dollars sales by a
mainland European based subsidiary. The contracts in place
during the year are classified as cash flow hedges and stated
at fair value. They are due to mature over the next year to the
end of March 2008. The contracts had a nominal value of
$4.2m and were contracted at $0.9925 to 1 Euro.
The net fair value of the contracts at 31 March 2007 was
£0.7 million (2006: £1.1 million).
The hedges were assessed to be effective at 31 March
2007. The reduction in fair value of the hedging contract
from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 amounted to £0.4
million and was recognised in the hedging reserve.
The reduction in fair value of the hedging contract from 1
April 2005 to 31 March 2006 amounted to £1.0 million and
was recognised in the hedging reserve.
c) Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group’s Euro denominated borrowing is designated a
hedge of the net investment in the Group’s European
subsidiaries. The carrying amount of the loans at 31 March
2007 was £124.6 million (2006: £68.0 million). A foreign
exchange loss of £0.8 million (2006: £1.2 million gain) was
recognised in the translation reserve on translation of the
loans to sterling.
d) Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient
cash is available to fund on–going operations without the
need to carry significant net debt over the medium term. The
Group’s principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group
of core relationship banks in the form of borrowings and
short–term overdraft facilities. The quantum of committed
borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed
regularly and is designed to exceed forecast peak gross
debt levels.
e) Credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade
receivables, short–term bank deposits and foreign currency
hedging transactions. Policies and procedures exist to
ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history.
Short–term bank deposits and foreign currency hedging
transactions are executed only with highly credit–rated
authorised counter parties based on ratings issued by the
major rating agencies. Counter party exposure positions are
monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any counter
party are within predetermined limits.
Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to a
significant amount of credit risk.
f) Commodity contracts
The Group enters into commodity swap transactions to
manage its exposure to fluctuations in the price of certain
raw materials. Such contracts are recognised at fair value
through profit and loss and the related asset of £0.1 million
is recognised in financial assets (2006: nil). The contracts
mature in March 2008.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 80 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   81
19. Financial instruments (continued)
g) Fair values
The fair values of the Group’s financial instruments together with their carrying amounts in the balance sheet are as follows:
2007
Book value Fair value
Financial instruments by category: £m £m
Asset/(liability)
Cash and cash equivalents 64.4 64.4
Trade and other receivables 202.1 202.1
Preference share dividend liability (14.0) (14.0)
Trade and other payables 249.8 249.8
Unsecured bank loans (154.6) (154.6)
Bank overdrafts (4.1) (4.1)
Finance lease liabilities (4.4) (4.4)
Interest rate swaps (2.1) (2.1)
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.7 0.7
Commodity contracts 0.1 0.1
2006
Book value Fair value
Financial instruments by category: £m £m
Asset/(liability)
Cash and cash equivalents 39.6 39.6
Trade and other receivables 120.5 120.5
Preference share dividend liability (14.0) (14.0)
Trade and other payables (159.3) (159.3)
Unsecured bank loans (80.7) (80.7)
Bank overdrafts (1.9) (1.9)
Finance lease liabilities (1.1) (1.1)
Interest rate swaps (2.2) (2.2)
Forward foreign currency contracts 1.1 1.1
Investments – 0.2
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments
reflected in the table:
Preference share dividend liability:
Fair value is based on future cash flows, discounted at 10.5 per cent, the prevailing interest rate at the time of the issue of the
preference shares.
Derivatives:
The fair values of the interest rate swaps are calculated using expected future cash flows discounted at the prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of the forward foreign currency contracts and the commodity swaps are based on listed market prices or calculated
by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 81 82 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
20. Operating leases
Non–cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Less than one year 8.5 6.2
Between one and five years 8.2 11.9
More than five years 8.2 12.9
24.9 31.0
The operating lease rentals charged to the income statement in the year totalled £9.1 million (2006: £6.2 million). There were no
contingent rents in the period.
The Group sub–leased out all or part of three (2006: six) leased properties during the year. The rental income from these
arrangements totalled £0.3 million during the year (2006: £0.4 million). Sublease payments of £0.3 million (2006: £0.4 million)
are expected during the next financial year.
21. Contingencies
(a)Guarantees
The Group has issued guarantees under the normal course of business amounting to £4.3 million (2006: £4.0 million) and had
guaranteed operating leases of certain subsidiaries amounting to £6.7 million (2006: £12.6 million).
(b)Contingent liabilities
At 31 March 2007 there were no contingent liabilities (2006: £nil).
22. Capital and reserves
Preference
Share Share share Translation Hedging Other Total Retained
Note capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves Reserves earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2005 13.2 17.6 7.2 3.8 (0.9) (15.2) (5.1) 48.6 74.3
Total recognised income
and expense –– – 2.1 (0.1) – 2.0 16.0 18.0
Shares issued – 0.1 –– – – – – 0.1
Equity–settled transactions –– – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Equity dividends –– – – – – – (4.6) (4.6)
Balance at 31 March 2006 13.2 17.7 7.2 5.9 (1.0) (15.2) (3.1) 60.1 87.9
Balance at 1 April 2006 13.2 17.7 7.2 5.9 (1.0) (15.2) (3.1) 60.1 87.9
Total recognised income
and expense –– – (8.3) (0.3) – (8.6) (92.3) (100.9)
Shares issued 15.6 0.3 –– – 138.3 138.3 – 154.2
Equity–settled transactions –– – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Equity dividends –– – – – – – (7.1) (7.1)
Balance at 31 March 2007 28.8 18.0 7.2 (2.4) (1.3) 123.1 126.6 (39.2) 134.2
Retained earnings includes a reserve for own shares of £2.6 million (31 March 2006: £2.6 million)
Notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:08  Page 82 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   83
22. Capital and reserves (continued)
Authorised Allotted,
Number called up
and fully
paid
Number
Ordinary shares of 25p each
At 1 April 2005 60,000,000 52,776,810
Issued during year – 151,810
At 31 March 2006 60,000,000 52,928,620
At 1 April 2006 60,000,000 52,928,620
Issued during the year 140,000,000 62,459,758
At 31 March 2007 200,000,000 115,388,378
7.25p (net) convertible participating preference shares of 10p each
At 1 April 2005 30,000,000 20,284,237
Converted during the year – (15,078)
At 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 30,000,000 20,269,159
2007 2006
£m £m
Issued capital
Ordinary share capital 28.8 13.2
The convertible participating preference shareholders are entitled to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 7.25p
(net) per share per annum payable half yearly in arrears on 15 June and 15 December and a further non–cumulative dividend equal,
in aggregate, to 0.01 per cent of the excess over £60,000,000 of the profits for the financial year of the company available for distribution.
The convertible participating preference shares do not entitle their holders to attend and vote (other than in certain circumstances)
on any resolution unless the fixed preferential dividend is six months in arrears. The shares allow conversion at the option of the
shareholder into fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each during the period to 20 August 2008 on the basis of 28.5714 ordinary shares
for every 100 convertible participating preference shares.
In the event of a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise, the assets of the company available for distribution among the
members shall be applied first in repaying to the holders of the convertible participating preference shares any arrears or accruals
of the fixed preferential and participating dividend, and second in repayment of the capital paid up or credited as paid up, together
with a further payment of a premium of 90p per share. There are no further rights to participate in the assets of the Company.
During the year to 31 March 2007 62,055,530 ordinary shares were issued at their nominal value of £15.6 million representing a
fair value of £153.9 million as consideration for the acquisition of Oxford Automotive A/S on 7 April 2006. On 30 November 2005
96,478 ordinary shares were issued as part of the consideration for the purchase of FKT.
404,228 further shares were issued (2006: 51,025) for consideration of £0.3 million (2006: £33,838) in respect of share options
exercised under an Inland Revenue Approved Save as Y ou Earn share save scheme.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 83 84 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007
22. Capital and reserves (continued)
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the
net investment in the foreign subsidiaries.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not occurred.
Reserve for own shares
The reserve for own shares represents shares held in employee trusts which consists of a holding of 1,168,278 (2006: 1,168,278)
of the Company’s ordinary shares with a nominal value of £292,070 (2006: £292,070). These shares were acquired by a trust in the
open market using funds provided by the Company to meet obligations under the Group’s share option schemes (see note 17).
The costs of funding and administering the schemes are charged to the profit and loss account of the company in the period to
which they relate. Dividend income from, and voting rights of the shares held by the trust have been waived and the shares have
therefore been excluded from the earnings per share calculation (see note 23). The market value of the shares at 31 March 2007
was £1.6 million (2006: £2.9 million).
Other reserves
Consideration for the acquisition of Oxford Automotive A/S was met by the issue of share capital. The value of these shares above
the nominal value (£138.3 million) is recorded in Other Reserves.
The balance on the consolidated Other Reserves comprises merger relief of £109.4 million less goodwill written off of £105.7
million arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 giving a net reserve of £3.7 million. In addition, Other Reserves include the
capital redemption reserve of £0.3 million (2006: £0.3 million) and a net reduction in equity of £19.2 million in respect of the
reclassification of the preference shares when IFRS was adopted. The preference shares were issued at a value of £21.2 million in
July 1988 as part consideration for the acquisition of Banro Industries Limited, of which £2.0 million was share capital and £19.2
million was taken to the Group’s capital reserves (under the requirements of Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985). The debt
component of the preference shares of £14.0 million is included in borrowings and the equity component of £7.2 million is
represented by the Preference Share Reserve in the Group’s reserves.
Dividends
The following dividends were paid and proposed in the year
Pence per share 2007 2006
Equity 2007 2006 £m £m
Interim dividends paid 9.0p 4.0p 7.1 2.0
Prior year final dividends paid – 5.0p – 2.6
9.0p 9.0p 7.1 4.6
The proposed final dividend in respect of financial year to 31 March 2007 of 1.0p per ordinary share was proposed after the
financial year end and as such has not been provided for in the financial statements and there are no tax consequences.
Interim dividends paid in the year to 31 March 2007 included an interim dividend for the current financial year of 4.0p per ordinary
share, and a second interim dividend in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2006 of 5.0p per ordinary share. (2006: interim
dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share and a final dividend in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2005 of 5.0p per ordinary share).
The dividend on the convertible participating preference shares of £1.5 million paid in the year is classified as a financial expense.
Notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  15/6/07  11:01  Page 84 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   85
23. Earnings per share
Earnings per share have been calculated as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (99.4) 14.3
Taxation 4.2 (4.1)
Basic earnings (95.2) 10.2
Restructuring costs and impairment 75.3 –
MG Rover costs – 0.4
Loss on disposal of operations 26.4 0.8
Restructuring finance costs 1.9 –
Taxation effect of restructuring, impairment and disposal (6.1) –
Underlying profit after taxation 2.3 11.4
Weighted average number of shares in issue 112,328,817 51,648,661
Earnings per share – basic (84.8)p 19.9p
Restructuring costs and impairment 67.0p –
MG Rover costs – 0.8p
Loss on disposal of operations 23.5p 1.5p
Restructuring finance costs 1.7p –
Taxation effect of restructuring, impairment and disposal (5.4)p –
Earnings per share – underlying 2.0p 22.2p
Underlying earnings per share is considered by the directors to represent a more consistent measure of year on year operating
performance.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excludes those held by The Wagon Employees’ Share
Trust which are deemed to be cancelled on the basis that the right to dividends has been waived (see note 17).
After adjusting for the potentially dilutive effect of ordinary shares exercisable under the Company’s share option schemes, and
the potentially dilutive effect of convertible preference shares, the diluted earnings per share amounts to (84.8)p (2006: 19.5p)
based on an adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue of 113,329,977 (2006: 52,501,432).
The dividend on the convertible participating preference shares of £1.5 million paid in the year is classified as a financial expense.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 2007 2006
Number Number
Basic 112,328,817 51,648,661
Employee share options 1,001,160 852,771
Adjusted 113,329,977 52,501,432
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 85 86 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
24. Related party transactions
Identity of related parties
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and senior executives.
David Cardwell, formerly the Director of a Business Group within Wagon plc, and who is a Director and shareholder of Sonas Group,
was in the 12 months prior to the completion of the divestment of the five low-tonnage stampings plants on 5 December 2006, a
Director of Wagon industrial Limited, (but not of Wagon plc). David Cardwell’s shareholding in the Sonas Group in conjunction with
his former directorship of Wagon Industrial Limited caused Sonas Group to be a related party of Wagon. Shareholder approval of
the divestment to a related party was given at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 4 December 2006.
Transactions between Wagon Group and Sonas Group are conducted on an arms length basis and are set out in notes 1,5 and1 3.
T ransactions with key management personnel
Details of transactions with directors are included in the remuneration report at the front of the financial statements.
In addition to these directors the Group believes that members of the Executive Committee should be classified as key
management personnel and therefore transactions with these key personnel are included below. These are limited to salaries and
bonuses, contributions to post employment retirement benefit plans and non–cash benefits.
Senior executives also participate in the Group’s share option programme (see note 17).
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Short term employee benefits 2.4 2.3
Post–employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Share based payment expense – 0.1
2.6 2.6
The remuneration is included in personnel expenses.
2007 2006
£m £m
Directors 1.2 1.2
Senior executives 1.4 1.4
2.6 2.6
25. Business combination
Acquisition of subsidiaries
As previously reported in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 Wagon completed the purchase of 100 per cent
of the equity shares of Oxford Automotive A/S on 7 April 2006. The acquisition price reported in the previous financial statements was
£128.4 million satisfied through the issue of ordinary shares. The share price of Wagon increased from 206p to 248p between the
announcement of the acquisition and the completion date and also a number of legal and advisory costs were capitalised as part
of the acquisition. These brought the final acquisition costs to £166.2 million.
The acquisition of Oxford Automotive A/S has generated £366.5 million of turnover and £20.9 million of profit before interest,
restructuring costs and intangible amortisation in the year to 31 March 2007. Oxford Automotive A/S was acquired only 7 days
into the financial year. The difference between the figures given above and the results for Oxford Automotive for the full year are
not significant. 
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  14/6/07  14:27  Page 86 Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 87
25. Business combination (continued)
Effect of acquisition
The acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities.
Acquiree’s net assets at 7 April 2006
Recognised Fair value Carrying
values adjustments amounts
£m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 88.8 (16.2) 105.0
Intangible assets 1.9 1.9
Inventories 21.8 1.0 20.8
Trade and other receivables 94.0 94.0
Deferred tax assets 15.7 12.9 2.8
Cash and cash equivalents 65.3 65.3
Finance lease liabilities (5.2) (5.2)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (41.7) (41.7)
Trade and other payables (124.0) (5.6) (118.4)
Employee benefits (7.2) (7.2)
Other provisions (39.5) (39.5) –
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 69.9 (47.4) 117.3
Goodwill on acquisition 96.3
Consideration* 166.2
Consideration comprises:
Shares issued 153.9
Costs 12.3
Shares issued 166.2
Net cash inflow as shown in the cashflow statement comprises:
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 65.3
Less costs paid (11.4)
Net cash inflow as shown in the cashflow statement 53.9
*Includes legal and advisory costs of £12.3 million and movement in share price between announcement and completion of
£25.5 million.
Goodwill of £96.3 million has arisen on acquisition and reflects the synergy benefits obtained from the increased scale of the
enlarged Group, restructuring benefits from the integration of Wagon and Oxford, the increased manufacturing footprint in
Eastern Europe and the increased scale and market position with existing customers.
Fair value adjustments comprise: the impairment of certain plant and equipment and the creation of onerous contract provisions
reflecting the commercial nature of certain customer contracts; the uplift on inventories to reflect selling price less selling costs
and adjustments to tooling balances to reflect Wagon’s accounting policy for tooling projects; adjustments to trade and other payables
reflecting risks and supplier claims not recorded in the Oxford accounting records and the tax effects on the adjustments above.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:08  Page 87 88 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
26. Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the
development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical
accounting policies and estimates and the application of these
policies and estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Note 9 contains information about the assumptions and their
risk factors relating to goodwill and other impairment.
Note 11 details unrecognised deferred tax assets and the
reasons for not recognising these balances.
Note 17 contains detail of the assumptions in relation to the
pension liabilities.
Note 18 details the risks in relation to the restructuring and
onerous contract provisions.
Note 19 details risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Note 25 details the basis of fair value provisions on acquisitions.
Investment Property
The Group has sublet a number of vacated buildings (see note
20 on operating leases) but has decided not to treat these
properties as investment properties because it is not the
Group’s intention to hold these for the long–term or for capital
appreciation or rent. Accordingly these are still treated as a
lease of property, plant and equipment.
These are considered to be the main estimates and
judgements in the financial statements.
Notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 88 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   89
The Company has not adopted IFRS. As such the financial statements for the Company are reported under UK GAAP and in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. For this reason the information relating to the Company has been split
out separately in the following section.
The Company has taken the exemption under FRS 1 not to present a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 3C of FRS 25, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation and has not disclosed information required by paragraphs 51 to 95 of that standard, as the Group’s consolidated
financial statements, in which the Company is included, provided equivalent disclosures for the Group under IAS 32 Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 1.6 0.5
Investments 3 301.5 225.8
303.1 226.3
Current assets
Debtors 4 25.2 14.3
Financial assets 0.7 1.1
Cash and short term deposits 5 1.4 0.1
27.3 15.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 7 (14.8) (14.4)
Financial liabilities (2.1) (2.2)
Creditors 6 (12.7) (4.8)
(29.6) (21.4)
Net current liabilities (2.3) (5.9 )
Total assets less current liabilities 300.8 220.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 7 (167.0) (93.2)
Other creditors 6 (85.4) (85.5)
(252.4) (178.7)
Net assets 48.4 41.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 12 28.8 13.2
Share premium account 12 18.0 17.7
Other reserves 12 (13.0) (12.7)
Retained earnings 12 14.6 23.5
Shareholders’ funds 48.4 41.7
Approved and signed on behalf of the board on 7 June 2007
Christopher Clark
Richard Cotton
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 March 2007 
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 89 Company Accounting 
Policies 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
90 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Accounting policies
The financial statements set out on pages 89 to 100 comply
with applicable UK accounting standards and are prepared
under the historical cost convention except that derivative
financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
a) Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are
translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date
of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in
the profit and loss account statement except where the
items are deemed to be hedging items (see policy on hedging).
b) Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the
asset have passed to the Company, and hire purchase
contracts are included within owned tangible fixed assets
and the obligations relating thereto, excluding finance
charges, are included in creditors. Rentals payable are
apportioned between the finance element, which is charged
to the profit and loss account, and the capital element which
reduces the outstanding obligation of future installments.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged in arriving at
the operating profit on a straight line basis over the lease term.
c) Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates
calculated to write off the cost or valuation less estimated
residual value of each asset over its expected useful life
as follows:
Leasehold land and buildings – over the period of the lease
Plant and other equipment – 3 to 20 years
d) Investments
Investments are shown at cost less provisions for
impairment in value.
e) Cash and liquid resources
Cash comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on
demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are
disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and
are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at
or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one
year (other than cash) and investments in money market
managed funds.
f) Deferred taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and
takes into account taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for
taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is
recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not
reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise
required by FRS 19.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 90 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   91
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against
which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the
related tax benefit will be realised.
g) Derivative financial instruments
The Company holds derivative financial instruments that
hedge the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange and
interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and
investment activities. In accordance with the Group’s
treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However fair value movements on derivatives that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised through the
profit and loss account.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date
that the contract is entered into and subsequently re-
measured in future periods at their fair value. The method of
recognising the resulting change in fair value is dependant
on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount
that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the
swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current
interest rates and other creditworthiness of the swap
counterparties. The fair value of forward exchange contracts
is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being
the present value of the quoted forward price.
h) Hedging
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a
hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or
liability, or highly probable forecasted transaction, the
effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial
instrument is recognised directly in equity in the hedging
reserve. When the forecasted transaction subsequently
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-
financial liability, or a forecast transaction for a non-financial
asset or non-financial liability occurs the associated
cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included
in the profit and loss account in the period in which the asset
acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss (i.e. in
periods when the depreciation expense or cost of sales
is recognised).
If a hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results
in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the
associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in
equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or
periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed
affects profit or loss (i.e. when interest income or expense
is recognised).
For cash flow hedges other than those covered by the
preceding two paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain
or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the profit
and loss account in the same period or periods during which
the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss. The
ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately
in the profit and loss account.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or
exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the
above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is
recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 91 92 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
i) Share capital
i) Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Financial instruments issues by the Company are treated
as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to
the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) They include no contractual obligations upon the Group
to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange
financial assets or financial liabilities with another party
under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the
Group; and
b) Where the instrument will, or may be, settled in the
Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a
non–derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a
variable number of the Company’s own equity
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the
Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other
financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity
instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds
of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the
instrument so classified takes the legal form of the
Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these
financial statements for called up share capital and share
premium account exclude amounts in relation to
those shares.
Where a financial instrument that contains both equity and
financial liability components exists these components are
separated and accounted for individually under the above
policy. The finance cost on the financial liability component
is correspondingly higher over the life of the instrument.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are
dealt with as part of finance expenses. Finance payments
associated with financial instruments that are classified in
equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
ii) Preference share capital
Preference share balances are accounted for as a
compound financial instrument. The liability component
of the instrument is calculated by discounting the future
cash outflows for the non–discretionary dividend
payments using a pre–tax discount rate that reflects the
prevailing interest rate at the time of issue of the
preference shares. The equity element is calculated as
the residual interest in the assets of the Company after
deducting all of the related liabilities.
iii) Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased,
the amount of the consideration paid, including directly
attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares (if not cancelled) are classified as
treasury shares and presented as a deduction from
total equity.
iv) Dividends
Dividends on preference share capital are recognised as
a liability and expensed on an accruals basis. They are
recognised in the profit and loss account as finance costs
as they relate to the liability element of the share capital.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the period
in which they are paid or approved by shareholders in a
general meeting.
Company Accounting 
Policies 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 92 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   93
j) Employee benefits
i) Defined contribution plans
For defined contribution pension schemes operated by
the Group, amounts payable by the Company are charged
to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
ii) Defined benefit plans
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of
providing benefits for the Group is calculated annually by
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit
method. Because the assets and liabilities of the scheme
cannot be reasonably split between the contributing
companies the Company accounts for the scheme as a
defined contribution scheme and amounts payable by the
Company are charged to the profit and loss account as
they fall due.
k) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the
Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a
result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If
the effect is material, provisions are determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
i) Restructuring
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Company
has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the
restructuring has either commenced or has been announced
publicly. Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii) Onerous contracts
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the
expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its
obligations under the contract.
l) Rental income
Rental income from investment properties and properties
held under operating leases sublet to third parties is
recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line
basis over the term of the lease.
m)Expenses
Net financing costs
Interest income and expense is recognised in the profit and
loss account as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Financial expense
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings,
dividends on preference shares, foreign exchange losses,
losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the
profit and loss account and financing costs relating to
employee benefits.
Financial income
Financial income represents interest receivable on cash and
cash equivalents, foreign exchange gains, gains on hedging
instruments that are recognised in the profit and loss account
and return on assets held in defined benefit schemes.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 93 94 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
n) Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the
Company is managed. In the course of its business, the
Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk,
interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The overall aim
of the Company’s financial risk management policies is to
minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance
and net assets.
The Group’s treasury department manages the principal
financial risks within policies and operating parameters
approved by the Board of Directors. T reasury is not a profit
centre and does not enter into speculative transactions.
(i) Foreign currency risk
The Group operates in a number of overseas regions,
primarily mainland Europe. In order to protect the Group’s
balance sheet from the impact of foreign exchange rate
volatility, foreign currency denominated net assets of
overseas operations are hedged. Net investment hedging
is achieved through borrowings denominated in the
relevant foreign currencies. A number of these borrowings
are taken out by the Company. Group and Company policy
is to recognise gains and losses from the effective portions
of the hedges in equity and to recognise ineffective
portions immediately in the profit and loss account.
The Group has small and infrequent transactional foreign
currency exposures that are hedged using forward
contracts taken out by the Company as described above.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Company has interest bearing debt that is
predominantly foreign currency denominated borrowings
for hedging net assets of overseas operations and sterling
borrowings to finance short-term working capital
requirements. Such borrowings are subject to floating
rates of interest linked to LIBOR. The Company enters into
interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate
exposure. Company policy is to recognise gains and losses
on the fair value of the effective portion of the hedging
instruments within equity and to recognise ineffective
portions immediately in the profit and loss account.
(iii) Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that
sufficient cash is available to fund ongoing operations
without the need to carry significant net debt over the
medium term. The Company’s principal borrowing facilities
are provided by a group of core relationship banks in the
form of borrowings and short-term overdraft facilities. The
quantum of committed borrowing facilities available to the
Company, and also Group, is reviewed regularly and is
designed to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
(iv) Credit risk
Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade
receivables, short-term bank deposits and foreign currency
hedging transactions. Policies and procedures exist to
ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history.
Short-term bank deposits and foreign currency hedging
transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated
authorised counter parties based on ratings issued by the
major rating agencies. Counter party exposure positions
are monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any
counter party are within predetermined limits.
Overall, the Company considers that it is not exposed to a
significant amount of credit risk.
o) Share based payments
Equity-settled transactions
The Group share option programme allows Group employees
to acquire shares in the Company. The employees involved in
these transactions are mainly members of other Group
companies. These subsidiary companies recognise the fair
value of options granted as an employee expense with a
corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at
grant date and spread over the period during which the
employees become unconditionally entitled to options.
When any such share options of the Company are issued, the
Company’s investment in the subsidiary is increased by the
fair value of the shares.
Company Accounting 
Policies 
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 94 Company notes to the
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007
Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 95
1. Personnel expenses and employees
The average number of persons, including directors, employed by the Company during the year was:
2007 2006
Number Number
Administration 24 33
24 33
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Wages and salaries 1.9 2.4
Social security costs 0.2 0.3
Pension scheme costs 8 0.8 2.8
2.9 5.5
2. Fixed assets
Long Short Plant and
leasehold leasehold other
buildings buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2006 0.2 0.2 1.1 1.5
Additions –– 1.3 1.3
At 31 March 2007 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.8
At valuation –– – –
At cost 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.8
0.2 0.2 2.4 2.8
Depreciation
At 1 April 2006 0.1 0.2 0.7 1.0
Charge for the year –– 0.2 0.2
At 31 March 2007 0.1 0.2 0.9 1.2
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 0.1 – 1.5 1.6
At 31 March 2006 0.1 – 0.4 0.5
The Company had no capital commitments (2006: nil).
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:08  Page 95 96 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
3. Investments
Shares in Loans to
Trade Group Group
Investments undertakings undertakings Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 2.6 164.2 92.3 259.1
Additions – 0.9 74.8 75.7
Disposals (2.6) – – (2.6)
At 31 March 2007 – 165.1 167.1 332.2
Provisions for impairment
At 1 April 2006 2.6 20.7 10.0 33.3
Disposals (2.6) – – (2.6)
At 31 March 2007 – 20.7 10.0 30.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 – 144.4 157.1 301.5
At 31 March 2006 – 143.5 82.3 225.8
Principal trading subsidiary undertakings
Wagon Industrial Limited is the principal UK trading company. It is wholly owned by the Company, is incorporated in England and
Wales and operates in the United Kingdom.
The overseas companies, which are all wholly owned by an intermediate holding company, are incorporated and principally
operate in the countries shown below.
A list of the UK operating units and overseas operations including their businesses is included in the details set out below.
There are some intermediate holding companies and certain other subsidiary undertakings of minor importance which are
excluded by virtue of Section 231(5) of the Companies Act 1985.
Company notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 96 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   97
Belgium
Wagon Automotive SA – Fleurus plant
China
Oleo Buffers Shanghai Co., Ltd – Oleo Shanghai plant
Wagon Automotive Innovative Solutions 
Shanghai Co., Ltd – ISBG Shanghai plant
Czech Republic
Wagon Automotive Spol Sro – Bêlá plant
France
Wagon Automotive SAS – Fontaine plant
– Gérardmer plant
– Sainte Gauburge plant
Wagon SAS – Bressuire plant
Oxford Automotive France Paris SA – Business Structures arm of Elancourt
Oxford Automotive Mecanismes – Closure Systems arm of Elancourt
et Decoupage Fin SAS
Oxford Automotive France Industries SA – Orbec and Saint Florent plants
Oxford Automotive France Douai SA – Douai plant
Oxford Automotive Mecanismes St Pierre SAS – Saint Pierre plant
Oxford Automotive Mecanismes Essomes SAS – Essômes plant
Oxford Automotive Mecanismes Champigny SA – Champigny plant
Germany
Wagon Automotive FKT GmbH – Pförring plant
Wagon Automotive GmbH – Waldaschaff plant
Wagon Automotive Nagold GmbH – Nagold plant
Italy
Wagon Automotive srl – Atessa plant
– Fiano plant
Spain
Wagon Automotive Iberica SL – Orense plant
Turkey
Oxford Mekanizma Metal Isleri Ve Montaj – Bursa plant
Endustri Ticaret Anonim Sirketi
United Kingdom
Wagon Industrial Limited – Brownhills plant
– Oleo Coventry plant
United States of America
Wagon Automotive Inc – Wixom plant
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 97 98 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
4. Debtors
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade debtors 0.1 –
Amounts owed by group undertakings 5.1 2.0
Other debtors* 19.2 11.8
Prepayments and accrued income 0.8 0.5
25.2 14.3
*Other debtors includes a loan to Sonas of £6. 1 million due after more than one year.
5. Cash and liquid resources
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank balances 1.4 0.1
Short term deposits – –
Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 0.1
6. Creditors
2007 2006
£m £m
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year:
Trade creditors 0.1 1.3
Amounts due to group undertakings 4.2 0.4
Other creditors 2.5 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 5.3 2.2
Dividends 0.6 0.6
12.7 4.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts due to group undertakings 85.4 85.5
85.4 85.5
7. Borrowings
2007 2006
£m £m
Current liabilities:
Bank overdrafts 13.3 12.9
Preference share dividend liability 1.5 1.5
14.8 14.4
Non–current liabilities:
Unsecured bank loans 154.5 80.7
Preference share dividend liability 12.5 12.5
167.0 93.2
Company notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 98 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   99
8. Employee benefits
The Company is a member of a group pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. Because the
Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted
by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ the scheme has been accounted for in these financial statements as a defined contribution
scheme.
The Company is a member of a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK operated by the Group. The assets are held in
separate trustee administered funds and pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified
actuaries using the projected unit method. Following a further review of the changes in legislation and the effect these have on
pension provisions, employees who joined company service on or after 13 February 2002 are not eligible to join the Wagon Plan
for pension purposes.
The latest full actuarial assessment was April 2005, and an independent qualified actuary has updated this to 31 March 2007.
Particulars of the actuarial assessment of the Group scheme are contained in the Group section of these accounts.
The pension cost of the year for the Company is £0.8 million (2006: £2.8 million).
No amortisation benefit has been taken during the year (2006: Nil). At 31 March 2007 the amount due to the pension scheme
amounted to £17,000 (2006: £7,000).
9. Deferred tax
The Company has no recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities (2006: Nil) but there is a £4.7 million (2006: £2.4 million)
unrecognised deferred tax asset in relation to losses brought forward. This is not recognised due to uncertainty over their utilisation.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 99 100 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
10. Operating leases
Operating lease payments falling due next year to which the Company was committed at 31 March were:
Land and
buildings
£m
Lease expires:
Within one year –
Between one and five years 0.3
After more than five years 0.5
At 31 March 2007 0.8
Within one year –
Between one and five years 0.3
After more than five years 0.5
At 31 March 2006 0.8
The Company has guaranteed the lease payments of certain of its subsidiaries, the total minimum lease payments of which
amount to £1.9 million (2006: £2.2million).
11. Contingencies
The Company has issued guarantees on behalf of the Group under the normal course of business amounting to £4.3 million 
(2006: £4.0 million) and had guaranteed operating leases of certain subsidiaries amounting to £11.1 million (2006: £12.6 million).
12. Share capital and reserves
Other
Share Preference Non– Capital
Share premium share Hedging distribution redemption Total Retained
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2006 13.2 17.7 7.2 (1.0) (19.2) 0.3 (12.7) 23.5 41.7
Shares issued 15.6 0.3 – – – – – – 15.9
Movement of fair value of cash
flow hedges – – – (0.3) – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Equity dividend paid – – – – – – – (7.1) (7.1)
Loss for the financial year – – – – – – – (1.8) (1.8)
At 31 March 2007 28.8 18.0 7.2 (1.3) (19.2) 0.3 (13.0) 14.6 48.4
Wagon plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The loss for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the Company amounted to £1.8 million (2006: £6.8 million).
For details of the Company’s share capital and share based payments, refer to notes 22 and 1 7 respectively of the Group
financial statements.
Company notes to the 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
continued
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 100 Financial Summary in Euro
for the year ended 31 March 2007
Wagon plc Annual Report& Accounts 2007 101
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
wm vm vm vm vm
Financial years ended 31 March IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP* UK GAAP*
Turnover
– continuing operations 970.6 447.5 526 548.6 481.9
– Sonas plants 75.6 134.7 142.0 152.5 154.3
– discontinued operations –– –– 53.5
1,046.2 610.4 668.1 701.1 689.7
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and
non–recurring items
– continuing operations 25.3 26.1 22.4 12.7 15.5
– Sonas plants (2.9) 5.4 12.8 16.3 11.7
– discontinued operations – –– – 1.7
22.4 31.5 35.2 29.0 28.9
Goodwill amortisation and impairment – (3.2) (3.5) (3.9)
Exceptional operating items (111.0) (0.6) (18.3) (7.2) (6.4)
(Loss)/ profit on disposal of operations (38.9) (1.2) (1.9) (3.8) 22.9
Amounts written off investment –– (3.8) ––
Net financial expense (19.0) (8.8) (6.3) (5.2) (7.0)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (146.5) 20.9 1.7 9.3 34.5
Taxation 6.2 (6.0) (7.3) (6.8) (6.2)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (140.3) 14.9 (5.6) 2.5 28.3
Equity dividends (10.4) (6.7) (6.7) (6.6) (7.2)
Non–equity dividends – (2.3) (2.2) (2.3)
(Loss)/profit transferred to retained earnings (150.7) 8.2 (14.6) (6.3) 18.8
Net assets employed
Fixed assets 278.9 196.8 206.3 185.4 184.6
Working capital 12.2 (12.3) (31.0) 46.2 53.4
Operating net assets 291.1 184.5 175.3 231.6 238.0
Goodwill and intangibles 217.3 79.7 66.3 69.9 68.7
Taxation and dividends 1.0 (10.9) (13.4) (19.0) (19.2)
Net debt (160.0) (83.3) (42.6) (72.3) (74.7)
Employee benefits (44.3) (44.0) (56.0) ––
Provisions (107.5) –– (12.8) (11.9)
Net assets 197.6 126.0 129.6 197.4 200.9
Exchange rates applied to £1
(Loss)/profit retained 1.47 1.47 1.47 1.44 1.56
Net assets 1.47 1.43 1.45 1.50 1.45
*The adjustments made upon transition to adopted IFRS are detailed in the 2006 Annual Report.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  23:09  Page 101 Five Year Summary
for the year ended 31 March 2007 
102 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
As restated As restated
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m €£m €£m €£m
Financial years ended 31 March IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
Turnover
– continuing operations 658.7 325.6 358.9 881.0 344.6
– Sonas plants 51.3 91.6 96.6 105.9 98.9
– discontinued operations – – – 34.4
710.0 417.2 455.5 486.9 443.3
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and non–recurring operating items
– continuing operations 17.2 17.8 15.3 8.8 10.0
– Sonas plants (2.0) 3.7 8.7 11.3 7.5
– discontinued operations – – – – 1.1
15.2 21.5 24.0 20.1 18.6
Goodwill amortisation and impairment – (2.2) (2.4) (2.5)
Exceptional operating items (75.3) (0.4) (12.5) (5.0) (4.1)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of operations (26.4) (0.8) (1.3) (2.6) 14.7
Amounts written off investment – – (2.6) – –
Net interest (12.9) (6.0) (4.3) (3.6) (4.5)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (99.4) 14.3 1.1 6.5 22.2
Taxation 4.2 (4.1) (5.0) (4.7) (4.0)
(Loss)/profit after taxation (95.2) 10.2 (3.9) 1.8 18.2
Equity dividends (7.1) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6)
Non–equity dividends – – (1.5) (1.5) (1.5)
(Loss)/profit transferred to retained earnings (102.3) 5.6 (10.0) (4.3) 12.1
Net assets employed
Fixed assets 189.4 137.3 141.9 123.6 127.4
Working capital 8.2 (8.6) (21.3) 30.8 36.9
Operating net assets 197.6 128.7 120.6 154.4 164.3
Goodwill, intangibles and investments 147.6 55.6 45.6 44.4 47.4
Taxation and dividends 0.7 (7.6) (9.2) (12.7) (13.3)
Net debt (108.6) (58.1) (29.3) (48.2) (51.6)
Employee benefits (30.1) (30.7) (38.5) – –
Provisions (73.0) – – (8.5) (8.2)
Net assets 134.2 87.9 89.2 129.4 138.6
Ordinary shares 28.8 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.1
Reserves and preference shares 105.4 74.7 72.0 116.2 125.5
134.2 87.9 89.2 129.4 138.6
Underlying profit before taxation 4.2 15.5 19.7 16.5 13.0
Ordinary dividend per share 9.0p 9.0p 9.0p 9.0p 9.0p
Earnings per share
– basic (84.8)p 19.9p (10.5p) 0.5p 32.9p
– diluted (84.8)p 19.5p (10.5p) 0.4p 32.1p
– underlying 2.1p 27.0p 24.2p 20.1p 15.7p
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  13/6/07  11:50  Page 102 Shareholder Information
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007   103
Registered office
3500 Parkside
Birmingham Business Park,
Birmingham, B37 7YG
Registered in England No. 150042
Telephone +44 (0) 121 770 4030
Facsimile +44 (0) 121 329 5150
www.wagonautomotive.com
Secretary
Jonathan Jowett
Auditor
KPMG Audit plc
Chartered Accountants
2 Cornwall Street,
Birmingham, B3 2DL
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
General shareholder enquiries: 0870 600 3970
Stockbroker
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate, 
London, EC2M 4AA
Financial calendar
Announcement of full year results 7June 2007
Annual General Meeting 24 July 2007
Ordinary shares final dividend paid 6 September 2007
Announcement of interim results December 2007
Ordinary shares interim dividend paid February 2008
Preference dividend half yearly 15 June, 15 December
Capital gains
The market value of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 March
1982 as calculated for capital gains tax purposes after
adjustment for the rights issue in 1992 was 65p per share.
Accounts_AW_bp.qxp  14/6/07  14:19  Page 103 Operating Locations
104 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Belgium
Fleurus Plant
Avenue de Spirou Zoning Industriel
B–6220 Fleurus
T elephone +32 71 82 28 1 1
China
Shanghai Plants (Oleo and ISBG)
Factory 10
79 Dong Xing Road
Songjiang District
Shanghai
T elephone +86 21 6774 3655
Czech Republic
Bêlá Plant
Mladoboleslavská 692
294 21 Belá pod Bezdezem
Telephone +420 326 709 111
France
Bressuire Plant
Route de Poitiers
F–79302 Bressuire
T elephone +33 (0) 5 49 74 06 22
Champigny Plant
66 Route Nationale
Lá Chapelle - BP3
F–89343 Champigny sur Y onne 
T elephone + 33 (0) 3 86 66 79 10
Douai Plant
194 boulevard Faidherbe
F–59506 Douai Cedex
T elephone + 33 (0) 3 27 93 39 39
Elancourt Operations Centre
Parc d’activité La Clé de Saint Pierre
Rue du Maréchal de Lattre de T assigny - 
BP 24
F–78997 Elancourt Cedex
Telephone + 33 (0) 1 30 68 68 68
Essômes Plant
48 rue Jacques Fourrier 
Essômes – BP 184
F–02407 Château-Thierry Cedex
T elephone +33 (0) 3 23 83 86 00
Fontaine Plant
ZA de l’Aéroparc
F–90150 Fontaine
T elephone +33 (0) 3 84 58 53 40
Gérardmer Plant
48 Boulevard de la Jamagne
F–88402 Gérardmer
T elephone +33 (0) 3 29 60 33 00
Orbec Plant
Chemin de Chambrais
F–14290 La Vespiere
T elephone +33 (0) 2 31 48 47 46
Sainte Gauburge Plant
Route de Gacé
F–61370 Sainte Gauburge
T elephone +33 (0) 2 33 84 22 80
Saint Florent Plant
6 rue Emile Zola
F–8400 Saint Florent
Telephone + 33 (0) 2 48 23 70 50
Saint Pierre Plant
461 route de Barentin
F–76480 Saint Pierre 
T elephone + 33 (0) 2 32 94 45 34
Germany
Nagold Plant
Lise-Meitner Strasse 10
D–72202 Nagold 
Telephone + 49 (0) 74 52 60 63 60
Pförring Plant
Schreinerstrasse 2
D–85104 Pförring
T elephone + 49 (0) 84 03 93 94 00
Waldaschaff Plant
Postfach 5 
Fabrikstrasse 6
D–63857 Waldaschaff
T elephone +49 (0) 60 95 94 00 
Italy
Atessa Plant
Contrada Saletti
Zona Industriale
66041 Atessa
T elephone + 39 (0) 872 888 101
Fiano plant
Via Agnelli n° 3
10070 Fiano
Telephone +39 (0) 11 92 48 111
Spain
Orense Plant
Parque T ecnologico de Galicia
San Cibrao das Vinas
32900 Orense
Telephone +34 (0) 988 608 086
Turkey
Bursa Plant
Bursa Ticaret Sanayi Organize Bolgesi
Turuncu cad. n°4
Nilufer / 16372 Bursa
T elephone + 90 (0) 224 261 22 71 
United Kingdom
Brownhills Plant
Pelsall Road, Brownhills
Walsall WS8 7HP
Telephone +44 (0) 1543 375 100
Oleo International
Grovelands, Longford Road
Exhall 
Coventry, CV7 9NE 
T elephone +44 (0) 2476 645 555
Wagon plc
3500 Parkside
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham, B37 7YG
T elephone +44 (0) 121 770 4030
United States of America
Wixom Plant
28025 Oakland Oaks Court
Wixom MI. 48393
T elephone +1 (248) 262 2020
Wagon_op_locations_P104.qxp  14/6/07  14:40  Page 104 Designed by Navyblue Design Group
Board Photography by Nick David
Through our ability to develop solutions
and solve OEMs’ issues, our close
relationship and confidence with OEMs
and our operational performance, we
will be recognised as a partner of choice
in Europe for structural assemblies
and ‘comfort systems’ for commercial
and passenger vehicles.
To us its all about partner relationships
rather than supplier relationships.
Contents
01 Highlights
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Partner Relationships
14 Business Group Review
20 Financial Review
24 Board of Directors
26 Executive Committee & Company Secretary
28 Directors’ Report
32 Remuneration Report
38 Corporate Governance
44 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
45 Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Wagon plc
46 Consolidated Income Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income & Expense
48 Consolidated Balance Sheet
49 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
89 Company Balance Sheet
90 Company Accounting Policies
95 Company Notes to the Financial Statements
101 Financial Summary in Euro
102 Five Year Summary
103 Shareholder Information
104 Operating Locations
Cover_AW_F.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  21:27  Page 2 More than
an automotive
supplier
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Wagon plc
3500 Parkside
Birmingham Business Park
Birmingham, B37 7YG
United Kingdom
Registered in England No. 150042
Telephone +44 (0)121 770 4030
www.wagonautomotive.com
Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Cover_AW_F.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  21:27  Page 1
