 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Pure water. 
Pure innovation.
Annual report and accounts 2013 WE ARE WATERLOGIC
Our vision is to make the world’s most plentiful 
substance as perfect as it can be.
Waterlogic is a leading designer, manufacturer and distributor of mains 
attached point-of-use (“POU”) drinking water purification and dispensing 
systems. Our products and services are built with a vision of purity:
We design and manufacture water dispensers that filter out unwanted 
contaminants, chlorine and other water‑borne tastes and odours.
Our Firewall™ purifying dispensers are certified by the Water Quality 
Association as being able to guarantee 99.9999% pure water 100% 
of the time, a fact which is confirmed by over 5,000 physical tests 
in independent laboratories.
 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 01
OUR MISSION
It’s our mission to be the world’s leading authority 
on making quality water accessible through innovation.
Developing an expertise in water, which permeates all our operations around the world, 
has been the result of hard work and dedication. Our mission encapsulates what we are 
about: to be the known and accepted source for better quality water, all underpinned 
by our innovation.
Founded in 1992, Waterlogic was one of the first companies to introduce POU water 
dispensers to Europe and continues to be a leader in product design and quality in the 
water dispenser market, the application of new technologies and in sales and service.
Waterlogic has an extensive and expanding independent global distribution network 
in place, reaching over 50 countries around the world. 
Waterlogic is admitted on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) of the London Stock 
Exchange (symbol “WTL”).
In this report
Overview
02 Group highlights
04 Waterlogic at a glance
Strategic Report
08 Chairman’s statement
10 Business model and strategy
12 Chief Executive’s review
16 Financial review
20 Corporate responsibility
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
Governance
26 Board of Directors
28 Introduction to governance
29 Corporate governance report
32 Audit Committee report
34 Nomination Committee report
35 Directors’ remuneration report
39 Directors’ report
40 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
41 Independent auditor’s report
42 Consolidated income statement
43 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
44 Consolidated balance sheet
46 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
47 Consolidated cash flow statement
48 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
96 Advisers
Cautionary statement on forward-looking statements 
and related information
This document contains a number of forward-looking 
statements relating to the Group/Company with respect to, 
amongst others: financial conditions; results of operations; 
economic conditions in which the Group/Company operates; 
the business of the Group/Company; and management plans 
and objectives. The Group considers any statements that are 
not historical facts as “forward-looking statements”. They 
relate to events and trends that are subject to risk and 
uncertainty that may cause actual results and the financial 
position of the Group/Company to differ materially from 
the information presented in the relevant forward-looking 
statement. When used in this document, the words “expect”, 
“estimate”, “intend”, “aim”, “anticipate”, “should” and similar 
expressions, as they relate to the performance of the Group/
Company or the management of it, are intended to identify 
such forward-looking statements. These statements are 
made by the Directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them up to the time of their approval of this report 
and such statements should be treated with caution due 
to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic 
and business risk factors, underlying any such 
forward-looking information.
Read more about  
the Company on our  
investor relations website  
at ir.waterlogic.com  OVERVIEW
02 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS
HOW WE’RE PERFORMING
Waterlogic has continued its international growth 
through a number of acquisitions and new supply 
and distribution agreements in 2013.
Financial highlights
 w Group revenue increased by 22.9 per cent 
from $101.0 million to $124.0 million. 
 w Gross margin improved from 60.7 per cent 
to 63.6 per cent.
 w Organic
(ii)
 growth in revenue was 4.1 per cent 
(3.5 per cent at constant currency).
 w Recurring rental and service revenue increased 
by 27.9 per cent to $49.8 million (40.2 per cent 
of Group revenues). 
 w Profit for the year increased 34.8 per cent 
to $1.7 million.
 w Net cash from operating activities increased 
by 8.5 per cent to $7.5 million.
 w New $60 million debt facility in 2013, with 
repayments over a five year period.
 w $55.8 million acquisition of Cool Clear 
Water Group (“CCWG”) in Australia, adding 
over 30,000 dispensers in the field and over 
11,000 new customers to the Group. 
Operational highlights
 w Successful worldwide roll-out of the new 
WL3 Firewall™ water dispenser. 
 w New distributors for the Commercial Division’s 
products added in Bulgaria, Italy, Lithuania and Chile. 
Focus on the introduction of the new Waterlogic Max 
Firewall™ technology product in France, resulting in a 
contract with ORPEA under which we delivered over 
1,000 Waterlogic Firewall™ purifying water 
dispensers by the end of the year. 
 w Progress on a number of projects in the Consumer 
Division, including product launches with Indesit 
in Italy and Turkey, a five year distribution agreement 
with ALCONIX Japan and an e-Commerce launch 
with a major North American retailer. 
 w Established additional manufacturing capability, 
in India, via Aquaignis (joint venture company 
with Eureka Forbes).
Results at a glance
2013 2012* Growth
Revenue $124.0m $101.0m 22.9%
Gross margin 63.6% 60.7% 2.9 bps
Adjusted EBITDA(
i
) $19.5m $13.8m 41.3%
EBITDA $16.1m $9.1m 77.5%
Adjusted operating profit(
i
) $12.3m $8.9m 38.4%
Operating profit $5.4m $2.3m 136.1%
Adjusted profit for the year(
i
) $7.6m $7.4m 2.8%
Profit for the year $1.7m $1.2m 34.8%
Net cash from operating activities $7.5m $6.9m 8.5%
Net assets $90.0m $89.3m 0.8%
Net debt/(funds)
 
(
iii
) $31.0m $(24.4)m
* Comparative figures are restated as appropriate throughout the Strategic Report – see note 3 for details. 
(i) The Directors use adjusted measures to judge the profitability of the Group to provide them with a consistent basis for comparison of the Group’s results, 
on a year-on-year basis. During the years under review, “adjusted measures” include adjustments for share based incentives, capital reorganisation related 
costs, corporate reorganisation costs, acquisition and integration related costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles. Further details and reconciliations 
to statutory measures are included in note 8 to the Financial Statements.
(ii) Organic growth is measured as the change in revenue year-on-year, excluding current year revenues from acquisitions until after the first anniversary of the 
acquisition.
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents less debt (note 39). Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 03
See the latest announcements 
on our commercial website at 
www.waterlogic.com
MAY
JUN
JUN
Roll-out of the WL3 Firewall™ product
Waterlogic successfully rolled out the new 
WL3 Firewall™ purifying water dispenser 
during the year. The product will encourage 
the take-up of premium sparkling systems 
in key markets such as Germany, France and 
Scandinavia and will also spearhead growth 
of the sparkling category of Waterlogic 
products in both the USA and Australia.
Consumer launch in Japan
Waterlogic signed a five year agreement 
with ALCONIX for the distribution of consumer 
products in Japan. 
The five year distribution agreement grants 
Waterlogic exclusivity for the supply of water 
dispensers to ALCONIX, who in turn becomes 
the sole distributor of Waterlogic Consumer 
products to the Japanese market. The 
agreement has volume commitments in place 
for the first year and includes certain performance 
clauses. The volume commitments for the 
following years of the agreement will be 
negotiated in line with the Group’s expectations.
Introduction of the Waterlogic Max 
Firewall™ technology product in France
The Group focused during the year on 
the introduction of the new Waterlogic Max 
Firewall™ technology product in France, 
resulting in the securing of a significant 
benchmarking contract with ORPEA, 
a European leader in dependency care. 
The contract with ORPEA successfully 
delivered over 1,000 Waterlogic Firewall™ 
purifying water dispensers by the end of 
the year. This strategic focus on the tangible 
benefits and value of Firewall™ technology, 
which commands a premium price in the 
market as a result, led to a strong performance 
recovery in France in the year.
New credit facility agreement
The Group agreed a five year, $60 million 
credit facility with HSBC and Clydesdale 
banks primarily to fund the acquisition 
of CCWG in Australia.
Acquisition of Cool Clear Water Group 
(“CCWG”)
Waterlogic acquired the leading supplier 
of water dispensers in Australia. The acquisition 
marked our entry into the Australian water 
dispenser market.
CCWG is the clear market leader in the 
Australian water dispenser market with 
over 30,000 dispensers in the field and 
as such the acquisition has significantly 
bolstered the Commercial Division. With 
over 11,000 customers, ranging from blue-chip 
organisations to SMEs, CCWG is the only 
Australian water dispenser provider with 
a presence in all Australian states. 
Completion of manufacturing facility 
in India
The Group completed the establishment 
of additional manufacturing facility in India, 
via Aquaignis (joint venture company with Eureka 
Forbes), in order to manufacture a range 
of products adapted for the Indian market, 
primarily using the Firewall™ technology. 
The manufacture of the initial launch products 
commenced In February 2014, the lead 
of which has been branded “Eterniti”.
SEP
OCT
DEC OVERVIEW
04 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
WATERLOGIC AT A GLANCE
DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY GREAT WATER
The sales team
We are continually strengthening our position as both 
a leading manufacturer and global distributor of POU 
water dispensers. This means more workplaces, schools, 
hospitals, hotels, restaurants and homes where water 
is refreshing and revitalising.
Our offices around the world allow us to concentrate on 
offering a local presence, leveraging distribution expertise 
and industry contacts to best service our customers’ 
needs. Waterlogic is in a prime position to bring pure 
water to even more consumers around the world.
The service technician team
Our technicians make installation easy, connecting the 
dispenser to the nearest water supply and completing 
the set-up. All our customers have to do is enjoy pure 
and refreshing water.
Service technicians 
ensure a high quality 
installation and great 
ongoing service and 
maintenance. Along 
with carbon filtration, 
Firewall™ and BioCote®, 
it’s all part of the 
Waterlogic approach to 
producing healthy and 
hygienic water.
We have a network of 
global offices, so we are 
well placed to deliver to 
customers worldwide.
Dedicated people, 
expert knowledge
Our R&D team ensures we are 
able to offer class-leading 
products, and offices 
worldwide allow us to bring 
the cleanest water to even 
more consumers
A wide range 
of solutions
Our range of products and 
services means that we are 
able to meet the needs of 
our individual customers
Highly specialist, 
effective 
technology
Our leading products contain 
some of the most effective 
purification technologies 
on the market
Ongoing customer 
relationships
We work with our customers 
from initial supply and 
installation through to 
service, maintenance 
and end-of-life recycling
01 Dedicated people, expert knowledge
Our research and development team ensures that we are able to offer the latest, 
class‑leading water dispensers. Our dedicated sales team help our customers make 
the right choice and our service technicians ensure our water dispensers are installed 
and regularly serviced so that healthy, hygienic water is continually assured.
Bringing good water to the home and business 
through our innovative water systems.
Whether the consumer’s need is for convenience, 
highly purified water or the regular controllable cost 
that is provided by a Waterlogic POU water dispenser, 
the service provided is paramount.
For Waterlogic, our service is an integral element of 
the proposition to deliver consistently good water.
Furthermore, installing a Waterlogic POU water 
dispenser can achieve up to a 72% carbon footprint 
reduction, a fact that is not lost on many of our 
customers, who are then able to report their move 
from bottled water to a Waterlogic dispenser as 
part of their organisational environmental and 
sustainability programme. 
Our vision
Delivering 
consistently 
great water
01
03
02
04 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05
02 Highly specialist, effective technology
03 A wide range of solutions
Waterlogic water dispensers are proven to create the purest 
drinking water there is. We’ve done all the research, design 
and thinking at the forefront of UV technology so all you 
have to do is sit back and enjoy pure and refreshing water.
Our three-stage approach to water purity:
Our POU water dispensers ensure the purest and healthiest 
water for our customers. Premium quality means great 
drinking water leading to better health, well‑being and 
performance from those who regularly drink it.
At work, the water dispenser can provide great hydration, which means better 
productivity. At home, our guarantee of 99.9999% purity means knowing that 
drinking water is safe. The customer can choose from chilled, sparkling, ambient 
or hot options, and there are high capacity models for even the busiest workplace. 
01  UV purification
UV purification is an essential part of our 
three-stage approach to making water better. 
UV light eradicates bacteria by destroying 
its DNA core, eliminating E. coli, salmonella 
and hepatitis, to name a few.
Now we’ve made our UV technology even 
more effective. With Firewall™, the UV lamp 
is positioned at the point of dispense, destroying 
99.9999% of germs, 100% of the time.
03  BioCote ®
Plastic surfaces surrounding dispensing areas 
of Waterlogic water dispensers are infused 
with a silver additive called BioCote®. Silver is 
a natural antimicrobial that neutralises the 
growth of micro-organisms, providing yet 
another layer of hygienic defence after 
filtration and UV purification. 
BioCote® protected dispensers are not only 
validated but also undergo continuous 
quality control testing to ISO 22196 standard at 
an independent laboratory. Waterlogic utilises 
the BioCote® brand as a guarantee of superior 
antimicrobial product protection.
02  Carbon filtration
Our carbon filters remove contaminants, such 
as chlorine, and other bad tastes and odours, 
but allow naturally occurring beneficial minerals 
to pass through the filter, maintaining the 
freshness of taste. Carbon is an effective filter 
because it grabs and holds on to impurities 
from pesticides, to lead, petro-chemicals to 
microscopic cysts, and removes toxins 
and discolouration.
Reverse osmosis
In certain parts of the world a different filtration 
method called reverse osmosis (commonly 
termed “RO”) is required. This filtration method 
effectively removes dissolved particles, such 
as acid, salts and nitrates. RO is generally used 
when the water source is unknown or the 
water is known to carry the contaminants 
listed above. OVERVIEW
06 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
WATERLOGIC AT A GLANCE CONTINUED
DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY GREAT WATER
Our POU water dispensers are currently sold in North and 
South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and South Africa. Waterlogic’s 
leading markets are the USA and Western Europe (in particular 
Germany and France), Scandinavia, Australia and the UK. Of the 
2.1 million new POU water dispenser and bottled water installations 
in the commercial market between 2005 and 2012, approximately 
77% incorporated POU technology, of which approximately 29% 
were Waterlogic products.
With offices and service centres spread across North America and Europe, and a network 
of distribution partners, we reach over 50 countries around the world and our reach is ever 
expanding. We have our own manufacturing facility in China and a joint venture manufacturing 
facility in India, which commenced production in February 2014.
04 Ongoing customer relationships
01
Initial steps
Installation, set-up and 
customer orientation
02
Service and care
Planned service and 
maintenance and general 
hygiene checks
03
Upgrades
Continuation of contract 
with potential for 
additional upgrades
Identification
Identification of customer need, 
matching the best solution 
from the Waterlogic range.
Our cycle of ongoing care ensures repeat customers:
$2bn
estimated business 
consumer POU market
$12bn
estimated home 
consumer POU market
over 
50
countries reached
over 
800
employees world wide Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 07
Clarion Hotel Stockholm
Clarion Hotel in Stockholm is part of Scandinavia’s largest 
hotel chain of over 160 hotels. There is a requirement from 
Clarion’s conference attendees that there is always water 
available. For Clarion it is important to save on personnel 
costs and time spent carrying water back and forth, and 
to have an environmentally friendly solution. 
The challenge
The hotel has been expertly designed, creating 
a magnificent building filled with light and space. 
T o complement this, the design and appearance 
of the water dispenser is a very important factor; it should 
be discreet. It must also be efficient and need as little 
care and maintenance as possible.
The solution
Clarion Hotel Stockholm chose to invest in Waterlogic 
WL4 Firewall™ machines that combine stylish looks 
with superior UV purification of Firewall™. Along with its 
smart looks, the WL4 water dispenser was selected as it 
dispenses high capacity, hot, cold, ambient and sparkling 
purified water. With the Firewall™ UV purifier technology 
the water cooler eliminates 99.9999% of germs, 
to guarantee really pure water for the hotel. 
The benefits
For this busy hotel, being Stockholm’s largest conference 
and hotel complex, the machines require very little 
maintenance, save the staff valuable time and provide 
peace of mind. The dispensers are also environmentally 
friendly, which supports the hotel’s environmental policy. 
“It is important for us to have great drinking water on 
demand when our conference guests demand it. For this, 
we need a dependable supplier and someone who can 
provide a high capacity and high quality dispenser. 
An operation like ours needs to do things properly, 
and this for us was an obvious choice.” 
Jakob Waern, Banqueting and Hosting Manager, 
Clarion Hotel Stockholm
Find out more about the types of customer we serve at 
www.waterlogic.com/applications
ORPEA Residential Care Group
A guarantee of optimum water quality to patients
The ORPEA Residential Care Group is a leading player 
in Europe in comprehensive care through a network of 
specialised institutions comprising retirement residences 
(nursing homes), clinical care, rehabilitation centres and 
psychiatric clinics. Its primary mission is to support those 
who have chosen to live under the care of a group that 
respects the individual’s right to comfort, dignity, 
individuality and independence. 
ORPEA’s mission is to continually seek ways to improve 
and optimise its services to residents and patients. In this 
context, ORPEA decided to replace all of its traditional 
water fountains with Waterlogic’s new generation of 
purifying water dispensers to ensure absolutely pure 
drinking water, every day, glass after glass, and carafe 
after carafe. The result of this action is that ORPEA 
achieved its goal of providing continual improvements 
in its services. 
How did Waterlogic help?
“Through its new generation of water coolers the Firewall™ 
range from Waterlogic brings three unique technological 
innovations (Filtration, BioCote® and Firewall™) to ORPEA, 
combining to guarantee pure water throughout the day. 
Waterlogic guarantees water: 
 w without microbiological contaminants e.g. bacteria, 
viruses and mould;
 w free of chlorine; and
 w with a stable mineral composition.
Our innovative Firewall™ purification system enables us 
to ensure that each user has a microbiologically optimal 
quality of water delivered glass after glass, carafe after carafe.” 
Philippe Barnetche, President, Waterlogic France STRATEGIC REPORT
08 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 Ariel Recanati
 Group Non-Executive Chairman
“  During 2013 we made progress 
in delivering on our strategy of 
strengthening our position as 
a leading provider of quality POU 
dispensers, further strengthening 
the foundations of future success.”
In summary
 w Revenue up 22.9 per cent to $124.0 million 
(2012: $101.0 million)
 w Adjusted EBITDA increased 41.3 per cent  
to $19.5 million (2012: $13.8 million)
 w Adjusted operating profit increased 38.4 per cent 
to $12.3 million (2012: $8.9 million) 
 w Net cash from operating activities increased 
by 8.5 per cent to $7.5 million (2012: $6.9 million)
 w Net debt of $31.0 million (2012: net funds 
of $24.4 million), ending the year with cash 
and cash equivalents of $16.6 million
 w During 2013 we have made further progress 
in delivering on our strategy, acquiring  
three businesses
 w Strengthened the Board and management 
team with key appointments
Introduction
During 2013 we made progress in delivering on our 
strategy of further strengthening our position as a leading 
international designer, manufacturer and distributor of 
quality POU water dispensers and enhanced the future 
quality of earnings through increasing recurring revenues. 
We also increased our global presence through signing 
up new distribution partners in three new territories, by 
acquiring a major platform acquisition in Australia and by 
adding two businesses in segments where we already had 
wholly owned direct sales operations, namely in Germany 
and the UK. In addition, we introduced a number of new 
products, including the global launch of the WL3, and 
modified our trading approach to help our distributors 
grow through increased technical and marketing support.
We also invested in our infrastructure and added talented 
people to our company in order to achieve our objectives. 
This included recruiting several employees focused on 
business development to our growing Consumer Division. 
During 2013 we saw the acceleration of the implementation 
of changes to our IT infrastructure, supply chain and web 
capabilities in order to build a strong base for sustainable 
growth and improve quality of earnings through recurring 
revenue streams. These plans, however, do not change 
our ongoing commitment to quality, customer service, 
and innovation.
This year the annual report and accounts incorporates 
the Strategic Report, in line with the revised reporting 
guidelines. These changes are intended to provide more 
effective communication with our stakeholders, through 
focused, relevant narrative reporting. These changes 
improve corporate accountability, which is consistent 
with our philosophy of providing more information than 
required. We will continue to evaluate our communications 
and identify ways in which we can further engage 
with stakeholders.
Results
The Group delivered solid results with revenues increasing 
by 22.9 per cent to $124.0 million, and organic revenue 
growth of 4.1 per cent (3.5 per cent at constant currency). 
This organic growth is coupled with increased recurring 
rental and service revenue, which now represents 
40.2 per cent of total Group revenue. Net cash from 
operating activities increased by 8.5 per cent to $7 .5 million, 
and adjusted EBITDA increased by 41.3 per cent to 
$19.5 million. Most pleasing was the successful 
integration of our largest ever acquisition, which has 
delivered results in accordance with expectations.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 09
Board and governance
The Board recognises the value and importance of effective 
corporate governance and, in recognition of the revised 
reporting requirements, has expanded our corporate 
governance section to provide improved transparency. 
Of the range of responsibilities the Board has, I have 
previously established a number that are clear priorities, 
and we remain firmly focused on these key areas. These 
priorities are: firstly to debate and agree our strategy and 
hold the executive team accountable for its execution; 
secondly, to ensure we have the right team in place to 
execute this strategy and to plan for succession; and 
thirdly to ensure that good corporate governance is part 
of our culture.
This year, we have made an internal promotion to 
strengthen our executive team on the Board. Robert Bell 
was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer after 
two years with Waterlogic. 
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review 
to ensure that we have the appropriate skills to improve 
the Group’s performance and to provide clear leadership. 
The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors 
and four Non-Executive Directors. Of these four, the Board 
considers three to be independent. The Board comprises 
business leaders from a diverse range of sectors including 
accounting, banking, investing and management consulting. 
During the year, the Board has provided robust challenge 
and support to the Executive Directors to ensure that our 
vision is properly developed and well delivered.
At Waterlogic we endeavour to maintain high levels of 
trust and transparency with our stakeholders. Operating 
our business in this way enables us to be open about 
our successes and also open when we fall short of 
expectations or targets. With nine acquisitions over 
the last two years, we have worked hard on delivering 
M&A integration as well as organic growth in the existing 
business. 2013 has seen a solid performance from our 
Commercial Division including the successful integration 
of our largest ever acquisition in Australia, increased 
recurring revenues and sales both direct and through 
our dealer network. During 2013, our Consumer Division 
realigned its strategy from supplying only OEMs to the 
inclusion of international distribution networks, which 
resulted in a slower take-off in 2013 but should, in the 
longer term, build higher brand loyalty and improve 
margins. The Board remains confident in the growth 
potential of the Consumer Division and we continue 
to work hard on prioritising our growth opportunities 
to ensure future success.
Outlook
We expect 2014 to be another year of progress through 
a combination of organic growth and drag-through 
contributions from acquisitions in our core business 
of the Commercial Division, supported by continued 
growth in the Consumer Division.
In 2014 we will be focused on working towards meeting 
the needs and expectations of all our stakeholders. 
The Board and the executive team, led by Jeremy Ben-David, 
have been encouraged by what was accomplished in 
2013 and remain focused on further developing our 
business and how we conduct it by listening to our 
customers and staying true to our corporate values 
in order to fully execute our strategy.
We are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in 
our industry and deliver long-term growth to our shareholders.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our 
employees at all levels for their continued commitment 
and dedication to making this an exceptional company.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held in Dublin 
on 11 June 2014. Y ou will find enclosed with this document 
a Notice of Annual General Meeting and a Form of Proxy 
which you are requested to complete in accordance with 
the instructions on the form. My fellow Directors and I look 
forward to meeting you at that time.
Ariel Recanati
Group Non-Executive Chairman
4 April 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
10 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY
HOW WE DELIVER VALUE
Our business model
At Waterlogic we design, manufacture, distribute 
and service innovative, high quality products 
for the POU water dispenser industry.
The Group exploits several channels to market for 
its products, including selling wholesale to trade and 
to end-user customers and providing direct rental and 
service to end-user customers. Through these channels, 
the Group has deployed in excess of 750,000 water 
dispensers. The Group operates directly in eight 
segments which are broadly geographical locations, 
namely Australia, France, Germany, the People’s 
Republic of China (PRC), Scandinavia, the UK, 
the USA, and International Trading from Ireland. The Board 
meets regularly in Ireland to review strategy and 
business performance. The Group’s operations comprise 
a wholly owned and operated manufacturing facility 
in the PRC and a JV manufacturing facility in India, 
which commenced production in February 2014; 
an international sales office located in Ireland; support 
offices in the UK and the USA; and subsidiaries offering 
direct sales, installation, servicing, trade sales and 
technical support in Australia, Denmark, France, 
Germany, Norway, Sweden, the UK and the USA.
The Group has an extensive and expanding 
independent global distribution network in place, 
reaching over 50 countries around the world.
In order to provide an extensive product range, 
Waterlogic invests heavily in the quality of parts, 
in innovative design and technology and in 
state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities. As a result, 
the Group has earned a strong reputation for 
engineering innovation in mains-fed POU drinking 
water purification and dispensing systems.
The Group is committed to continuing development 
and commercialisation of its innovative Firewall™ technology, 
including the development of existing products and 
investigation of additional opportunities with selected 
partners for potential applications of the technology. 
The patent application for our Firewall™ technology 
is in process in 19 territories and in Europe. The patent 
application process is rigorous and lengthy but we have 
to date achieved grants in two territories (Nigeria and 
South Africa). Our application was made some while 
ago (in October 2009), and we believe the significant 
pre-dating of our application compared with another 
alternative or similar technology places it in a very 
strong position with regard to granted patent protection.
Customers
We offer our products and services 
to customers in both the commercial 
and consumer markets.
Product delivery
Through our network of distributors 
we are able to reach more customers including 
those in developing economies, where 
consumer distrust of available tap and 
bottled water has led to an increased 
demand for water dispensers.
We now cover over 50 countries across six 
continents and our reach is ever expanding.
People
Our research and development teams 
comprise engineering experts and 
a doctor of microbiology and are supported 
by a significant research and development 
investment programme. 
Technology and products
We have a focus on innovation and are 
committed to delivering quality products 
that provide only the cleanest water.
We manufacture our products in our wholly 
owned and operated facility in the PRC, 
and from February 2014 also in our joint venture 
facility in India, enabling the Group to customise 
its products to suit the needs of specific markets 
and customers. We also source specific products 
from selected partners in order to complete 
our ranges suitable to each specific market.
A commitment to quality
The ISO9001 quality management system that 
is in place is an integral part of our quality 
control programme in the PRC.
Our core areas of focus: Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
Our strategy
During 2013 we made definite progress in delivering 
on our strategy of strengthening further our position 
as a leading international designer, manufacturer 
and distributor of quality water dispensers.
Objective What we have done What we will do
Promoted in key markets the many scientific tests and 
customer references that have all served to prove the 
efficacy and value of Firewall™. These have supported 
the Commercial launches, and specifically the launch 
in 2013 of the WL3 product, where initial market feedback 
shows that this is an excellent product combining elegant 
design, Firewall™ purification and sparkling water all at 
a very reasonable price.
Commenced the distribution of Firewall™ branded 
consumer water dispensers through the Group’s partners 
ALCONIX and Indesit (Hotpoint). The JV with Eureka 
Forbes is now underway, which should open up access 
to the Indian market for the Firewall™ products from H1 2014.
Promote in all channels our 
Firewall™ range as the core 
and recommended solution 
where appropriate. 
Continue to grow and develop 
in the Consumer sector, by 
developing with many partners 
in many markets.
Leverage Firewall™ technology
We wish to leverage the best of our 
technology in order to drive higher 
volumes and margins.
Strategic priorities
 w Raise market awareness of the need 
for purification at the outlet faucet every 
time water is dispensed.
 w Increase the proportion of sales in 
all markets that are represented by our 
Firewall™ purifying water dispensers. 
Launched WL3 Firewall™, Waterlogic Max Firewall™ and 
Cube Firewall™ water dispensers in the Commercial sector. 
Furthermore, to gain volume sales in selected markets the 
lower price point WL100 product was launched.
Launched the Cube and the Edge in the consumer space.
Commenced the installation of new ERP and CRM systems 
in a number of operating businesses.
Commenced and advanced a Group-wide purchasing 
review that resulted in substantial benefits.
Develop and launch additional 
new Firewall™ products.
Continue investment 
in IT infrastructure in order 
to improve our efficiency 
in sales and service.
Continue to focus on operational 
improvements to our supply chain.
Complete the integration 
of acquisitions and identify 
further synergies.
Improve profit margins
We aim to drive top-line profitable growth.
Strategic priorities
 w New product innovation and creativity.
 w Improve IT infrastructure and 
procurement processes.
 w Use vertical integration to improve margins.
Acquired Cool Clear Water Group (“CCWG”) in 
2013 as a platform for entry into the Australian water 
dispenser market.
Acquired Aqua Cure Scotland (UK), a highly profitable, 
highly complementary “bolt-on” increasing the coverage 
of the Aqua Cure market.
T arget distributors in new and 
existing geographies.
Evaluate acquisitions in existing 
core geographies of the Group.
Increase global presence
We intend to recruit distributors in existing 
and new geographies.
Strategic priorities
 w Grow sales footprint in existing 
and new geographies.
 w Consider acquisitions in existing markets.
Focused management on driving existing business 
units towards recurring revenue models, and acquired 
businesses with attractive levels of recurring revenues. 
Acquisitions notably include CCWG, Aqua Cure Scotland 
and Eauvell.
Strategically, our focus is 
to continue to build a recurring 
revenue base. We will target 
companies who are mainly 
POU operators and distributors 
(who may or may not be existing 
customers of the Group) to 
improve longer-term predictability 
of earnings.
Establish recurring revenue growth
Strategic priorities
 w To rent POU dispensers directly 
to businesses across the globe.
 w Securing business partners to sell 
and rent POU water dispensers to their 
own customers.
110,000
POU machines produced 
and shipped in 2013
over 
800
employees world wide STRATEGIC REPORT
12 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
 Jeremy Ben-David
 Group Chief Executive Officer
“  Waterlogic has performed well 
in a competitive market during 
the year.”
Introduction
Waterlogic has performed well in a competitive market 
during the year. Revenue for the year increased by 
22.9 per cent from $101.0 million to $124.0 million, 
with acquisitions in 2013 contributing $11.8 million of 
this top-line growth and organic revenue growing by 
4.1 per cent (3.5 per cent on a constant currency basis).
Recurring revenues increased from $39.0 million in 2012 
(38.6 per cent of total revenue) to $49.8 million in 2013 
(40.2 per cent of total revenue). However, our strategic 
focus on increasing recurring revenues, whilst improving 
the long-term quality of earnings, has had the effect of 
lowering earnings and growth rates in the short term.
International Trading business revenue increased 
year-on-year by 13.9 per cent to $16.4 million, and we 
experienced organic revenue growth of 21.9 per cent in 
Germany and 3.0 per cent in France, demonstrating the 
strength of our business across the worldwide Group. This 
was partially off set by a 12.7 per cent reduction in Aqua 
Cure resulting from the loss of a filter distribution 
agreement. 
Machines in field grew by 17.2 per cent in the period 
(from 640,000 to 750,000), with the estimated addition 
of 110,000 units in field during the year, which is an 
important growth indicator for the business. 
We continue to pursue our strategies of growing 
our recurring rental base and achieving growth both 
organically and through strategic acquisitions. The 
acquisition in 2013 of Cool Clear Water Group (“CCWG”) 
in Australia is the Group’s largest to date and brings 
substantial recurring rental revenues and important 
growth opportunities for the Group. We are pleased to 
have the support of both Clydesdale and HSBC banks, 
which financed the Group in this acquisition.
Operations 
The Group is managed on the basis of segment 
performance, focused on the geographical location 
of markets. Operations are also reviewed on the basis 
of performance of the Consumer and Commercial 
Divisions separately.
The Commercial D ivision has delivered a strong performance 
during the year. We strengthened our position as a premium 
supplier of POU water dispensers and associated products 
through the three acquisitions made this year in Australia, 
Germany and the UK and with the launch of several new 
products. The acquisition of CCWG establishes Waterlogic 
as the clear market leader in the Australian POU water 
dispenser market, with over 30,000 machines in field 
at the end of the year and recurring rental revenue 
representing over 70 per cent of total revenue. The new 
products that were launched in several markets in the year 
are based upon the Group’s unique Firewall™ technology, 
with notably a new sparkling range of products featuring 
the technology launched in Europe.
In France, the Company launched a high volume POU 
water dispenser, incorporating the Firewall™ technology, 
which targets the important hotel, restaurant and catering 
In summary
 w Group revenue increased by 22.9 per cent 
from $101.0 million to $124.0 million.
 w Recurring revenue increased to $49.8 million 
(2012: $39.0 million), being 40.2 per cent of total 
revenue (2012: 38.6 per cent).
 w Acquisition of Cool Clear Water Group (“CCWG”) in 
Australia, adding over 30,000 dispensers in the field 
and over 11,000 new customers to the Group.
 w Machines in field increased to circa 750,000 
(2012: 640,000).
 w Successful worldwide roll-out of the new WL3 Firewall™ 
water dispenser. 
 w New distributors for the Commercial Division 
in Bulgaria, Italy, Lithuania and Chile. 
 w Progress in the Consumer Division, including 
product launches with Indesit in Italy and Turkey 
and a distribution agreement with ALCONIX Japan. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13
markets. A new reverse osmosis filtration system, 
incorporating the Firewall™ technology, will be launched 
in Russia, Spain and the USA in 2014, and several new 
national accounts were acquired in Germany, France, 
Scandinavia and the USA.
The Consumer Division had limited success in 2013, 
but there were new product launches in Japan, Turkey 
and Italy. Revenue increased from $0.5 million in 2012 to 
$1.3 million in 2013. Orders outstanding at the end of 
2013 were approximately $0.8 million and these units are 
expected to be shipped in H1 2014. A new product launch 
is already planned for H1 2014 in the Middle East and there 
is a pilot launch planned via a major international retailer’s 
E-Commerce platform in Canada. 
The Consumer Division’s strategy of pursuing large OEM 
customers has been extended to include partnering with 
smaller high-end and geographically focused partners, 
E-Commerce and more direct-to-market strategies. 
The Group’s Indian joint venture factory began manufacturing 
Consumer products in February 2014, targeting the Indian 
Consumer market with Firewall™ products. The new 
Waterlogic Counter Top product for the Consumer 
and small Commercial markets was launched in several 
new territories and the roll-out will continue in 2014. 
The Consumer Division continues to pursue several 
opportunities around the world, although experience 
shows that planned launches have taken longer than 
we had originally anticipated. However, the Board remains 
excited by the opportunities in the consumer market 
and remains positive about its long-term prospects. 
Technology and innovation
During the year, the Water Quality Association (“WQA”) 
presented an International Award of Merit to our R&D team. 
The award was given in recognition of the development 
of the unique Firewall™ technology as a breakthrough 
innovation in water purification in POU water dispensers, 
which has revolutionised water purification and quality. 
The intense dose of UV purification at the point of dispense 
means that the customer can be assured of almost absolute 
purity every time they dispense water. The Firewall™ 
technology is the first of its type to achieve two stringent 
certifications, NSF/ANSI 55a (for UV purification), and  
NSF/P231 (for microbiological purification) and these 
certifications are due very much to the dedicated work 
of the R&D teams. We are convinced that Firewall™ 
is a revolutionary piece of technology and a genuine 
advance in water purification. The technology has 
enormous potential as there are a number of different 
applications that it could be applied to and it has 
a relatively small footprint that can be adapted to fit 
many existing technologies. 
The combination of the Firewall™ technology with our filtration 
and BioCote® antimicrobial protection technologies 
is innovative. Each of these technologies plays its part and 
the whole system combines to ensure the best drinking 
water that the consumer could want. Filters are an 
effective way of removing chlorine, sediment and most 
pathogens from the water, and our new filter system 
is designed so that cartridge housings can be reused with 
only the filter element (which is biodegradable) replaced. 
Our exclusive licence to use BioCote® in our water dispensers 
provides an additional defence mechanism against the 
potential degradation of key external parts. But Firewall™ 
is the centre piece of the Company’s technology suite 
and is a significant unique selling point for our sales team 
and our resellers. Firewall™ is certified as being able to 
guarantee 99.9999% pure water, 100% of the time, a fact 
that has been confirmed by over 5,000 physical tests 
in independent laboratories. Hence, we remain positive 
that with the best products on the market we are well 
equipped to grow both revenue and market share.
During the year our European Commercial team worked 
with our R&D team to develop a high capacity dispenser 
(called the Waterlogic Max Firewall™). This unit is particularly 
suited to areas where there will be a high demand for cold 
drinking water, for example in hotels, catering, hospitals 
and care homes or the education sector. By the end of the 
year we had sold over 1,000 units, and this dispenser was 
crucial in securing a significant contract with ORPEA, 
a national care home chain in France. Again this product 
features Firewall™, which provides the reassurance to 
the end customer that every touch of a button will provide 
pure water.
In certain parts of the world, a different filtration method 
called reverse osmosis (commonly termed “RO”) is required. 
This filtration method effectively removes dissolved particles, 
such as acid, salts and nitrates. It was therefore a natural 
step for our team to integrate the Firewall™ UV purification 
system with an RO system to create a “T otal Purity” solution. 
For certain customers, such as hospitals, this could prove 
to be a compelling proposition. Our first machine order was 
completed in the last quarter of 2013, and we had, by the 
end of the year, received significant orders from two 
of our key markets.
Essential to our strategy for the Consumer sector is 
a suite of products that will suit the varied needs of different 
households in different countries. Our compact, counter 
top dispenser, the Cube, is an attractive mains-fed unit 
featuring Firewall™, and despite its size can easily serve 
a large family (or small office) with cold, room temperature 
or hot water. End-user serviceability is an essential 
ingredient of the design of our consumer products. 
As such, our filters feature a patent pending “click-in, 
click-out” mechanism, making their replacement a quick 
and easy process that can be done by the consumer. 
Furthermore, we have developed a kitchen tap system 
which conceals the chilling and filtration system below 
the worktop, leaving only an attractive tap (which again 
contains our Firewall™ purification technology) fitted 
to the surface of the counter or sink unit.
One of the early projects from our joint venture with 
Eureka Forbes in India was to engineer our Firewall™ 
technology into one of their fastest selling and most 
popular products for the Indian subcontinent, called the 
“Infiniti”. This purifier is ideally suited to the Indian market, 
and it was an obvious decision to incorporate Firewall™ 
into the unit, with an immediate apparent benefit to the 
Indian consumer. The resulting upgraded product is 
called the “Eterniti” and is due for launch in H1 2014. STRATEGIC REPORT
14 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
During 2014 we look forward to introducing more products. 
One project that is currently well under way is to introduce 
a dispenser similar to the Waterlogic Max Firewall™ (high 
capacity unit for hotel and catering environments) but suited 
to the unique needs of the market in the USA. Whilst this 
may seem relatively straightforward (considering we have 
equivalent products in Europe), the differing certification 
requirements, plus other factors such as electrical systems 
and localised customer preferences, mean that a specific 
development is required. 
A sparkling water Cube is also planned for launch during 
2014. This compact product will have all the significant 
advantages of the Firewall™ Cube, with the additional 
benefit of on-tap sparkling and purified water. 
Like many other industries, innovation and technology is 
a source of competitive advantage. This advantage needs 
protection and as such we have invested a great deal 
in protecting our intellectual property through patents, 
design registrations and trademarks. Notably we have 
focused on a few critical patents, but protected these 
in many territories. The Board at Waterlogic remains 
convinced that the Firewall™ has many other applications.
New products and services are the lifeblood of our business, 
and in order to maintain our market leadership it is our desire 
to continually improve our value proposition to our customers 
and prospective customers through our investment in R&D. 
With a 2013 R&D investment of $2,258,000, including 
$164,000 on certifications and testing, together with the 
deployment and involvement of our marketing and technical 
teams in our key markets, we can be confident in producing 
new products and innovations designed to keep Waterlogic 
at the forefront of our market. 
Product improvement is as important as new product 
development and our team of 20 engineers and the staff 
at our dedicated Water Quality Centre constantly ensure 
that our existing products remain effective and reliable.
Our marketing and R&D teams collaborate on the strategic 
roadmap for new products, and over the coming year 
we expect to see additional new developments being 
marketed. A few examples are additional sparkling water 
versions of our products and a new range update for one 
of our major strategic partners.
Acquisitions and asset purchases
During 2013 the Group completed three acquisitions, with 
a total consideration net of cash acquired of $56.3 million.
On 27 February 2013 the Group acquired Water Filters Limited, 
trading as Aqua Cure Scotland, a vendor of water filtration 
and water purification equipment based in Perth, Scotland. 
Waterlogic’s acquisition of Aqua Cure Ltd in 2011 was a 
strategic purchase to provide the Group with a complementary 
range of products. The acquisition of Aqua Cure Scotland 
expands upon this strategy, increasing coverage of the 
UK market by giving the Group direct access to the 
Scottish market.
On 7 March 2013 the Group acquired a further 23.85 per cent 
holding in Aqua Cure Limited, bringing its total holding in 
the company to 93.85 per cent. The Group retains an option 
over the remaining 6.15 per cent interest, which may be 
exercised up to 31 December 2015.
On 21 June 2013 the Group acquired the entire share capital 
of Cool Clear Water Group Ltd (“CCWG”), the leading supplier 
of POU drinking water purification and dispensing systems 
in Australia. The acquisition marked Waterlogic’s entry into 
the Australian water dispenser market.
CCWG is the clear market leader in the Australian POU market 
with over 30,000 POU water dispensers installed and, as 
such, the acquisition significantly bolstered the Group’s 
Commercial Division. With over 11,000 customers, ranging 
from blue-chip organisations to SMEs, CCWG is the only 
Australian POU provider with a presence in all Australian 
states. CCWG is predominantly a rental business, which 
further enhanced the Group’s proportion of recurring revenues 
and EBITDA margin. The consideration was satisfied by 
the payment of AUD$60.0 million (approximately $55.8 million). 
On 1 September 2013 the Group acquired the assets 
of Eauvell, based in Kiel, northern Germany. The transaction 
was structured as an asset purchase for a total purchase 
price of $0.4 million. 
Consumer product contracts 
The Consumer Division achieved $1.3 million in revenue 
in 2013 (2012: $0.5 million). The division also had outstanding 
orders to the value of $0.8 million at the year end. These 
products will ship before the end of H1 2014. 
In May 2013, the Group signed an agreement with ALCONIX, 
a well-respected trading company, for the distribution 
of the Group’s Waterlogic Consumer products in Japan. 
The five year agreement grants Waterlogic exclusivity 
for the supply of drinking water purification devices 
to the Japanese partner, which will in turn become the 
sole distributor of Waterlogic Consumer products to the 
Japanese Consumer market. The agreement has volume 
commitments in place for the first year and includes 
certain performance clauses. The volume commitments 
for the following years of the agreement will be 
negotiated in line with the Group’s expectations. 
The Waterlogic Consumer range of products was 
launched in Japan in November 2013. The products 
carry the “Waterlogic” and “Firewall™” branding for direct 
distribution and “OEM brand” and “Firewall™” for OEM. 
ALCONIX is distributing to the market through department 
stores, kitchen manufacturers and wholesalers, mail order 
catalogues and through healthcare organisations to the 
medical industry. The Japanese residential water treatment 
market is one of the largest in the world, valued at more 
than $2 billion, and represents a significant opportunity 
for the Group. 
The Indian joint venture with Eureka Forbes is progressing, 
with manufacturing started in the new factory, located in  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15
Dehradun, in February 2014. The Group remains very excited 
by the prospects of this partnership with Eureka Forbes 
and by the long-term potential within the Indian market. 
Waterlogic Consumer’s customer Indesit launched in Turkey 
and Italy. Although these launches were later than originally 
anticipated, Indesit plans to continue the roll-out in further 
European territories in 2014. Products were only available 
through retail channels since July and August 2013 but 
sell-through statistics are improving.
There have been delays in the deployment of certain 
other Waterlogic Consumer projects, with the most 
significant impact from one customer due to launch 
in H1 2014. New launches are planned for H1 2014 in the 
Middle East and a pilot launch via a major international 
retailer’s E-Commerce platform in Canada. 
Whilst the initial period of the Consumer Division’s revenue 
performance has been far slower than originally envisaged, 
management believes that the upside potential of this 
business remains very substantial. 
Management and staff
Following the departure in September 2013 of the previous 
Group CFO, John Skidmore, the Group promoted Robert Bell 
to Group CFO on 18 October 2013. 
Mr Bell joined Waterlogic in January 2012 as Director 
of Accounting, responsible for the Group’s financial 
operations and reporting, and lately acted as interim 
CFO for Waterlogic.
Mr Bell’s role as Director of Accounting has been replaced 
by a new Group Financial Controller, as of 20 January 2014.
The Consumer division has recruited senior marketing 
and business development management more suited for the 
new strategy of the division. Experienced executives from 
the “high-end” consumer market were recruited to the 
department and began employment as of January 2014. 
The R&D team has recruited a manager with significant 
experience and managerial capability. We continue 
to develop new products for new markets and I have little 
doubt that these efforts will be reflected in our future 
results, providing Waterlogic enormous potential 
for many years to come.
In order to achieve our international, multi-channel 
ambitions, it is essential we have the infrastructure and 
organisational capabilities to drive this growth. Since our 
Admission to AIM, we have made considerable progress 
in transforming the business by strengthening the 
organisational structure, increasing recurring revenue 
streams and attracting a pool of talented staff. The efforts 
of our management and employees continue to be 
exceptional. I would like to thank them for their relentless 
efforts in making Waterlogic a successful market leader 
in the global POU market. 
I believe that Waterlogic’s senior management objectives 
are aligned with shareholders’ interests. The Group’s PSP 
plan incentivises management to achieve compound 
shareholder returns as well as meet EBIT objectives.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
These KPIs are used by the Board to measure the success of the Group. Our KPIs have been chosen as the best 
measurement of the Group’s performance.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Revenue $61.2m $68.3m $84.9m $101.0m $124.0m
Gross profit $36.1m $41.8m $49.8m $61.3m $78.9m
Gross margin % 59.1% 61.3% 58.7% 60.7% 63.6%
Recurring revenue $17.8m $21.9m $27.0m $39.0m $49.8m
Recurring revenue % 29.1% 32.1% 31.8% 38.6% 40.2%
Operating profit $5.8m $5.8m $4.9m $2.3m $5.4m
Operating margin % 9.5% 8.5% 5.8% 2.3% 4.4%
Adjusted operating profit $6.3m $7.6m $8.5m $8.9m $12.3m
Adjusted EBITDA $11.0m $11.0m $12.2m $13.8m $19.5m
Net cash from operating activities $6.6m $2.3m $3.5m $6.9m $7.5m STRATEGIC REPORT
16 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
FINANCIAL REVIEW
 Robert Bell
 Group Chief Financial Officer
“  Our progress in 2013 has built 
a strong foundation for delivering 
improved quality of earnings, that 
will lead to improved shareholder 
value over the long term.”
In summary
 w Revenues increased 22.9 per cent to $124.0 million 
(2012: $101.0 million).
 w Group operating profit increased 136.1 per cent to 
$5.4 million with adjusted operating profit increasing 
by 38.4 per cent to $12.3 million (2012: $8.9 million).
 w Group EBITDA increased by 77.5 per cent to $16.1 million 
with adjusted EBITDA increasing by 41.3 per cent to 
$19.5 million.
 w Successful acquisition and integration of CCWG, for 
AUD$60 million ($55.8 million), delivering results in line 
with acquisition proposals.
 w Finance costs in 2013 were $2.2 million compared 
to $0.7 million in 2012 due to the utilisation of the 
Group’s debt facility to fund acquisitions.
 w Profit before tax increased by 91.9 per cent to $3.4 million 
(2012: $1.7 million).
 w Taxation was $1.7 million for the year (2012: $0.5 million). 
The effective tax rate for the Group increased to 
50.3 per cent (2012: 29.2 per cent).
 w Net cash from operating activities increased by 
8.5 per cent to $7.5 million (2012: $6.9 million). 
Introduction
Waterlogic’s key financial objective is to deliver 
sustainable growth in the profitability of the Group and 
thereby continue to build on the quality of earnings that 
will lead to increased Shareholder value in the 
longer term.
This objective was supported as we continued during 
2013 with the delivery of our business plans, protecting 
our gross margins through tight control of material costs. 
Focused sales activity and improvements in our bills of 
material and supply chain helped us protect profitability. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Waterlogic uses a range of KPIs to monitor progress 
against our strategic priorities. These include non-GAAP 
performance measures to assist in the measurement 
of underlying performance.
Revenues
In 2013, Group revenue was $124.0 million, representing 
a 22.9 per cent increase on the prior year (2012: $101.0 million).
Movements in foreign currency exchange rates had the 
effect of increasing year-on-year revenues by $0.6 million 
relative to revenues at constant currencies. Adjusting for 
these foreign currency effects, 2013 acquisitions (increase 
of $11.8 million), and the drag-through impact of prior year 
acquisitions (increase of $7.5 million) underlying organic 
revenues rose to $105.5 million, representing organic 
growth of 4.1 per cent on the prior year (3.5 per cent 
at constant currencies).
Recurring revenues were $49.8 million in 2013, an increase 
of 27 .9 per cent on 2013 and now representing 40.2 per cent 
of Group revenues. Direct revenues increased by 62.1 per cent 
in 2013 from $16.0 million to $25.9 million, with indirect 
revenues increasing from $46.0 million to $48.3 million, 
an increase of 4.9 per cent in the year. Revenues were 
impacted by delays in the planned launch of our consumer 
products and the loss of a filter distribution agreement in 
the UK which suppressed earnings in 2013. The Group has 
since entered into a strategic relationship with the food 
service division of Pentair Filtration and Process for the 
supply of filtration units to the Group.
Profits
Gross profit benefited from the higher mix of direct sales, 
together with rental and service income, helping to lift the 
gross margin to 63.6 per cent (2012: 60.7 per cent) with 
gross profit of $78.9 million.
Group operating profit for the year was $5.4 million, 
136.1 per cent above 2012 ($2.3 million). The Group has 
presented an adjusted operating profit which eliminates 
the effect of share incentive plans, capital reorganisation 
costs, acquisition and integration related costs, corporate 
reorganisation costs and the amortisation of acquired 
intangibles. This adjusted operating profit of $12.3 million 
represents an increase of 38.4 per cent on 2012, driven 
by improved gross profits mentioned above. Adjusted 
EBITDA rose to $19.5 million, including $4.2 million  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17
contribution from our Australian acquisition, 41.3 per cent 
above 2012 ($13.8 million), consistent with last year pointing 
to a continued improvement in underlying profitability.
Segment operating profit rose by 33.9 per cent in Scandinavia 
to $4.5 million, and the French segment strengthened 
performance by 41.0 per cent with an operating profit of 
$0.7 million compared to $0.5 million in 2012. The German 
segment made a profit of $2.6 million from $2.0 million 
in 2012, an increase of 26.7 per cent. This was to some 
extent off set by UK segment reducing by 24.4 per cent 
as a result of the loss of a filter distribution agreement and 
the US segment, which made a loss of $1.9 million 
due to one-off costs compared to a $1.1 million loss in 2012.
Group operating costs increased by 24.5 per cent 
(up $14.5 million) to $73.4 million in the year reflecting 
headcount increases from both newly acquired 
businesses and in response to organic growth needs, 
$1.7 million in one-off acquisition and integration related 
costs, $1.7 million increase in amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and increased costs in relation to development 
of the Consumer Division. R&D expenditure in the period 
was $2.3 million (2012: $3.8 million), of which $0.8 million 
was expensed (2012: $1.7 million). 
Finance costs in 2013 were $2.2 million compared to 
$0.7 million in 2012 as a result of the new loan facility, 
including $0.1 million in respect of interest rate swaps 
to secure the Group’s long-term borrowing rate until 
June 2018.
Group profit before tax for the year was $3.4 million, 
$1.7 million (91.9 per cent) above 2012 as a result of 
the above factors.
Taxation
T axation was $1.7 million for the year (2012: $0.5 million). 
The effective tax rate for the Group increased to 50.3 per cent 
(2012: 29.2 per cent). The increase in the effective rate 
in tax is largely due to the mix of profits and losses in 
the different tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. 
We are working on a number of measures to achieve 
lower effective rates over the longer term.
The amount of tax paid in the year increased to $2.2 million 
from $2.0 million in the prior year. However, corporate 
income taxes paid can be distorted relative to the annual 
tax charge as a result of the payment of a tax liability falling 
outside the financial year and because of deferred tax 
accounting treatment. 
The increase in the net deferred tax liability to $4.4 million 
as at 31 December 2013 (2012: $0.2 million) relates in large 
part to a $5.3 million deferred tax liability recognised on 
customer relationship intangibles acquired as part of the 
CCWG acquisition, off set by a $0.7 million deferred tax asset 
acquired as part of the same acquisition and $0.3 million 
of foreign exchange gains arising during the year. 
Revenue ($m)
68.3
61.2
2009 2012 2010 2011
101.0
84.9
$49.8m
40.2%
2013
124.0
Recurring revenue ($m)
2009 2012 2010 2011
39.0
27.0
2013
49.8
Recurring revenue (%)
32.1
29.1
2009 2012 2010 2011
38.6
31.8
2013
40.2
21.9
17.8
$124.0m STRATEGIC REPORT
18 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Operating profit ($m)
5.8
5.8
2009 2012 2010 2011
2.3
4.9
$5.4m
2013
5.4
Adjusted operating profit ($m)
7.6
6.3
2009 2012 2010 2011
8.9
8.5
$12.3m
2013
12.3
15.7%
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 
2009 2012 2010 2011 2013
16.1
18.0
13.7
14.3
15.7
$19.5m
Adjusted EBITDA ($m) 
2009 2012 2010 2011 2013
11.0
11.0
13.8
12.2
19.5
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for the year were 2.10 cents, 
compared with 1.28 cents in 2012. Diluted earnings per 
share were 2.07 cents, compared with 1.26 cents in 2012.
Cash and treasury
The Group continues to generate cash, with net cash from 
operating activities of $7.5 million (2012: $6.9 million) up 
8.5 per cent on 2012. Our key sources of liquidity during 
the year have been cash generated from operations and 
borrowings through our debt facility. In 2013, this was 
enhanced through the disposal of freehold premises 
in the UK for $0.7 million and in Sweden for $0.4 million.
Balance sheet
T otal assets increased to $178.5 million from the prior 
year’s $128.0 million, primarily as a result of the acquisition 
of CCWG for $55.8 million, funded by the new debt facility 
drawn down of $47.6 million.
Goodwill increased by $30.3 million to $55.2 million 
compared with the prior year, predominantly as a result 
of goodwill recognised on the acquisition of CCWG of 
$30.8 million partially off set by adverse foreign exchange 
movements on goodwill denominated in currencies other 
than the US dollar. Acquired intangible assets increased 
by $13.6 million to $30.6 million, compared with the prior 
year amount of $17.0 million. This primarily reflected the 
acquired intangibles on CCWG, which was partially off set 
by amortisation and foreign exchange movements. Other 
intangible assets increased by $1.1 million, due primarily 
to the capitalisation of $1.0 million of development costs 
and $1.0 million of additions to software, off set by 
amortisation during the period.
A significant proportion of the non-current assets on our 
balance sheet reflect acquisitions since our Admission 
to AIM in July 2011. 
In accordance with IFRS, acquired intangibles such 
as customer relationships and brands are recognised 
separately from goodwill on acquisitions, with intangible 
assets subject to amortisation and with no amortisation 
of goodwill. Impairment reviews of these balances 
are performed at least annually, and any impairment 
is recognised through the income statement. Whilst there 
is no current impairment there is a sensitivity within our 
US operations whereby should the net present value 
of the future discounted cash flows decrease by 17 per cent 
or more relative to our current expectations, an impairment 
would result. It is our current expectation that this event 
will not occur, and therefore no impairment has been 
recognised as at 31 December 2013.
Net cash from operating activities ($m) 
2.3
6.6
2009 2012 2010 2011
6.9
3.5
$7.5m
2013
7.5 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19
Gross debt increased to $49.6 million as at 31 December 2013 
(note 22). Gross debt comprises borrowings together with 
the fair value of derivative assets or liabilities held to manage 
interest rate risk of borrowings. The Group closed the year 
with net debt of $31.0 million (2012: net funds $24.4 million), 
as a result of the deployment of AUD$60.0 million in support 
of the acquisition of CCWG in Australia generated by utilisation 
of the Group’s borrowing facility. The Group has access to 
a US$75.0 million facility, of which $60.0 million is currently 
committed via a $25.0 million term loan and a $35.0 million 
revolving credit facility. The amount undrawn at the year 
end stood at $21.1 million. The term loan amortises over a 
five year term, and $1.2 million was repaid during H2 2013.
An analysis of net debt is provided in note 39 to the 
consolidated Financial Statements. Our gearing (presented 
as a ratio of net debt to equity) has increased to 35% 
from (27%) at 31 December 2012.
Current trading and outlook
Waterlogic believes the market will continue to evolve, 
driven by a combination of factors including cost 
pressures, an awareness of water quality and environment 
concerns, all of which give our water dispensers a clear 
advantage over a traditional bottled water solution. The 
Directors remain confident that the solid foundations put 
in place during 2013, together with continued investment 
in the Group’s Firewall™ technology projects, potential 
acquisitions and, most importantly, the Group’s organic 
business, will continue to deliver shareholder value.
Looking forward, Waterlogic is well positioned for the 
coming year. The Group has continued to gain revenue 
share in many of its markets, as it leads the migration from 
bottled water to the point-of-use market and expands its 
global footprint through continued organic growth and 
acquisitions. Waterlogic’s emerging markets, which include 
South America and Eastern Europe, will continue to be 
growth drivers of its International Trading business and, 
with its Direct business set for another strong year the 
overall outlook is positive. 
The Group has established comprehensive business 
plans to ensure it has sufficient information relating to the 
business and its ability to generate sufficient profits and 
cash to cover its ongoing commitments.
Three steps to greatness. T o deliver 
on our guarantee of water safety, 
we developed our unique 
three‑stage purification approach:
Step one
First, our water purification systems filter your water 
to remove contaminants, chlorine and other 
water-borne tastes and odours. 
Step two
Second, our award-winning Firewall™ UV water 
purification technology is completely effective 
against a huge range of bacteria. Firewall™ also 
provides unparalleled effectiveness at eliminating 
viruses and cysts. When we say “completely” and 
“unparalleled” we mean up to 99.9999%, according 
to 5,000 physical tests of our technology by 
many respected, independent laboratories. 
Step three
Last but not least, BioCote®, a silver antimicrobial 
additive that reduces and neutralises the growth 
of micro-organisms on the product surface, providing 
yet another added benefit to our water dispensers 
after filtration and UV purification.
See more information at www.waterlogic.com/
benefits/simply-pure/three-steps-to-greatness STRATEGIC REPORT
20 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Anybody can dispense water, but caring about water 
extends to all facets of what we do and how we do it. 
Making great water needs great people, technically 
excellent and proven technologies, suppliers who see 
themselves as strategic partners and great customers. 
They all want to know we are an organisation that does 
things properly.
Responsibility also means responsibility to our planet. 
Having designed Waterlogic POU dispensers with 
the environment in mind, we asked the experts to 
calculate just how good they are. An independent study 
commissioned by the Group’s exclusive UK distributor 
partner (PHS Waterlogic) found the carbon footprint of a 
Waterlogic POU dispenser is typically 55% (and up to 72%) 
lower than a traditional bottled water dispenser over 
a five year lifespan. That’s a great result for all of our 
customers around the world.
The study was undertaken by the respected UK environmental 
consultancy Sustain. It calculated the carbon footprint 
of a Waterlogic POU dispenser compared with a traditional 
bottled water cooler (“BWC”).
Eco-friendly water is safe and environmentally responsible, 
enabling our customers to reduce their carbon footprint. 
Beyond the obvious – great, refreshing water – Waterlogic 
POU water dispensers have the added benefit that they’re 
designed with the environment in mind. Energy, fuel and 
time are all conserved as the cost of transporting, storing and 
disposing of bottles (large or small) is eliminated. 
The study focused on the impacts of production, use 
and disposal of a single Waterlogic dispenser and a BWC 
equivalent over a chosen lifespan of five years “cradle 
to cradle” (i.e. including the removal and refurbishment 
or recycling). This included all aspects from composition 
of material, manufacturing process, delivery of the water 
dispenser and energy used during use.
“Since 2012, WaterAid and Waterlogic have been 
teaming up to support people around the world 
who are thirsty for change, starting with the one 
in ten people today who do not have access to 
safe drinking water.
Waterlogic’s $225,000 commitment to WaterAid 
gives us the capital we need to provide taps and 
toilets, supports education around safe water and 
hygiene, and bolsters the skills of local people 
interested in improving water infrastructure. 
T ogether, WaterAid and Waterlogic are proving 
that water transforms lives.”
David Winder, WaterAid CEO in America
For more information about WaterAid please see 
its website: www.wateraid.org/us/audience/
corporate-partners#/wateraidjds-partners 
WaterAid
When you care about drinking water as much 
as we do, you naturally get to thinking about the 
people who don’t have a ready, safe-to-drink 
supply of life’s most basic essential.
That’s why Waterlogic has partnered with WaterAid, 
donating funds to transform lives in the world’s poorest 
communities. Lack of clean water means that 
1.4 million children die every year from water-related 
disease. It means children with no future because 
they have to miss school to collect water from 
distant wells or springs. Since 1981 WaterAid has 
brought safe water and sanitation to 16 million 
people across the world. As part of Waterlogic’s 
ongoing commitment to providing safe water, the 
Group has pledged to donate a minimum of 
$225,000 to WaterAid over the period from 
December 2011 to December 2014.
WaterAid/Anna Kari.
Baindu, Amie and Vandy pose as they hold a cup of clean water 
in the village of Nyeama, Sierra Leone, May 2013. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21
Carbon Reduction Label
As part of a commitment to the environment and being 
able to offer an environmentally friendly alternative 
to bottled water, PHS Waterlogic in the UK has certified 
its dispensers and service with the Carbon Trust (the official 
UK CO
2
 reduction certification body). PHS Waterlogic 
is the world’s first drinking water dispenser service to 
be independently certified with the Carbon Reduction Label 
from the Carbon Trust. As part of the scheme, seven 
of Waterlogic’s water dispensers have been awarded the 
Carbon Reduction Label and will proudly display the label 
when sold in the UK.
Carbon performance is increasingly becoming a concern 
for many organisations. By having certified a CO
2
 footprint 
for the Waterlogic water dispenser service in the UK, PHS 
Waterlogic is now able to provide information allowing 
customers to make informed, sustainable purchasing 
decisions and meet their own environmental targets. 
By the nature of our business, we already offer 
organisations the opportunity to reduce their carbon 
footprint of their water dispenser by up to 72 per cent* 
when replacing a traditional bottled water dispenser, 
but we’re always hoping to go one better.
* Sustain research for PHS Waterlogic.
Energy Star certification
The Energy Star mark awarded to a selection of Waterlogic 
POU water dispensers is hard earned. Our Energy Star 
products have to prove they prevent greenhouse gas 
emissions by meeting strict energy efficiency guidelines 
set by the US Environmental Protection Agency and the 
US Department of Energy. 
A selection of Waterlogic water dispensers were awarded 
the eco-friendly Energy Saving Water Star for using an 
approved level of energy when in operation. Smart design 
means some of our dispensers have an energy saving 
“Sleep Mode” that puts it on standby when the machine 
has not been used for a period of time. We also meet 
ROHS rules for electronics and wiring and WEEE 
requirements on collection, recovery and recycling 
of equipment.
Going concern basis
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in this Strategic Report. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are also described within the Financial 
Statements. In addition, note 39 of the Financial Statements 
includes the Group’s financial capital management objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial 
risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors 
on 4 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Robert Bell
Group Chief Financial Officer STRATEGIC REPORT
22 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Description Mitigation Change
Acquisitions and infrastructure
The Board intends to continue its strategy of acquiring 
businesses that are expected to enhance the long-term 
profitability of the Group. 
Any acquisition that cannot be successfully integrated, or does 
not provide the incremental economic value expected at the 
time of acquisition, could have a negative effect on the 
Group’s performance.
As the Group expands through a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions in a range of geographical locations 
there is a risk that its infrastructure, including its IT systems, 
its operating policies and procedures and its culture and internal 
communications may not be sufficiently robust to ensure that 
operational efficiency is maximised and economies of scale 
are realised.
Board approval is required prior to any significant transaction 
and appropriate financial, legal, technical and other due 
diligence reviews are carried out. 
The Group has taken steps to strengthen its post-acquisition 
integration planning to ensure that newly acquired entities are 
efficiently and effectively integrated into the Group.
Budgets are set for all newly acquired businesses and 
potential synergies are identified and tracked. The Group has 
adopted a policy of establishing high-level frameworks within 
which individual business units can define locally appropriate 
policies and procedures. A number of such Group-wide 
initiatives and frameworks were rolled out during 2013 
and this will continue in 2014.
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
The Board believes that 
the level of risk arising 
from its policy of 
continuing to acquire 
appropriate businesses 
is broadly unchanged. 
The performance of newly 
acquired businesses 
against defined budgets 
is closely monitored.
Post-acquisition reviews 
are carried out to assess 
the extent to which 
expectations set out in the 
original Board proposals 
have been realised and 
to identify any key lessons 
for future acquisitions.
A number of threats with uncertain outcomes have the 
potential to cause the Group’s actual results to differ 
materially from expectations and/or historical results 
and could materially affect its long‑term performance.
Waterlogic is exposed to a number of uncertainties whose 
outcome could impact on its financial performance, 
operations, regulatory compliance or corporate reputation. 
Some of these are generic to any multinational commercial 
enterprise and others are more specific to the Group. The 
key risk factors that management consider potentially 
material in nature are set out below, together with 
information about the mitigating actions in place. 
There are other risk factors which are not considered 
potentially material, and there may be others of which 
management is currently not aware as it is not possible 
to anticipate every risk that may arise in a complex operating 
environment such as that in which Waterlogic operates.
Risk management process
Management of risk is an integral part of the day-to-day 
activities of the Group and, where reasonably possible, 
steps are taken to mitigate known material risks. However, 
these steps can only reduce the likelihood of risk events 
occurring or the impact on the Group should they occur. 
They do not provide absolute certainty over the mitigation 
or elimination of the risks as many risk factors are wholly 
or partially outside the control of the Group.
For more detail about the Group’s risk management systems, 
please refer to the “Internal control and risk management” 
section in the Corporate Governance Report on page 31. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23
Description Mitigation Change
Technology, innovation and intellectual property
Innovation is at the heart of the Group’s mission and culture, 
but researching, developing and bringing to market new 
products is complex, costly and time-consuming, with 
no certainty of a sustainable revenue stream at the end 
of the process. 
The Board believes Firewall™ represents a significant competitive 
advantage through innovative application of generally accepted 
UV treatment technology. However , there is a risk that competitors 
may develop new technologies, or innovative applications of 
existing technologies, that undermine this advantage.
The Group could fail to recognise commercially significant 
intellectual property, fail to seek appropriate security over 
rights to such intellectual property, or fail to obtain such 
security for reasons outside the Group’s control. There is also 
a risk that the Group could breach other parties’ intellectual 
property rights.
The Group continues to invest significant resources into 
research and development of new technologies and products 
and has recruited additional management resource in this 
area during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The New Product Committee established in late 2012 
monitors and evaluates proposals for new products and 
product enhancements. This includes assessment of 
commercial viability and “fit” within Waterlogic’s existing 
product portfolio.
The Group relies on a combination of patents, copyright, 
trademarks, design registrations, trade secrecy laws, 
confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions 
to protect its intellectual property rights. 
There is open communication between the Research and 
Development function and the Group’s Legal department 
in relation to intellectual property developments that should 
be considered for formal protection.
Comprehensive searches are carried out before any 
application to register a patent or trade mark is lodged and 
competitors’ new product launches, trademarks and domain 
names are monitored to identify potential conflicts between 
Waterlogic’s and other parties’ rights.
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
The Board believes that 
the level of Waterlogic’s 
exposure to technology, 
innovation and intellectual 
property related risk is 
broadly unchanged.
The development of new 
products and technologies 
are closely monitored. 
Development initiatives 
are driven from 
commercial business 
teams and reviewed by 
Product Development and 
committed in the light of 
group strategic priorities.
Manufacturing 
The Group’s strategy is to manufacture to order so as to 
minimise finished goods inventory held at the factory and 
within its supply chain. 
Waterlogic’s primary manufacturing facility, from which the majority 
of the Group’s products are sourced, is located in the PRC.
Any disruption to manufacturing operations and/or inbound 
or outbound supply chains could extend delivery lead times 
to customers leading, in extreme cases, to lost sales.
Labour costs in the PRC continue to rise and price and 
availability of raw materials and components are subject to 
inherent uncertainty. Continuing appreciation of the Chinese 
Renminbi against the US Dollar represents a key factor in the 
competitiveness of the Group’s manufacturing costs.
The Group employs a number of measures including, 
where possible, identifying multiple suppliers for key 
materials and components, safeguarding its manufacturing 
and logistics infrastructure against disruption, maintaining 
business disruption insurance and holding some inventory 
at subsidiaries. 
The manufacturing facility in the PRC currently operates only 
a single shift, which is extended if required by production plans. 
This leaves significant additional capacity available should 
it be needed.
The joint venture with Eureka Forbes in India, when fully 
on-stream, will provide additional manufacturing capacity 
for specific products in Waterlogic’s product range. 
Options for outsourcing some manufacturing are kept under 
active review as a further way of maintaining flexibility.
A comprehensive review of sourcing and procurement 
practices was launched during 2013 and is expected 
to deliver substantial savings.
A number of subsidiaries purchase finished goods from third 
party suppliers or have assembly facilities to service local 
market needs for specific products. 
The Group seeks to purchase raw materials and components 
in US Dollars where possible to mitigate foreign exchange risk 
on these transactions.
Recruitment activities in the manufacturing facility in the PRC 
are accelerated or deferred as appropriate to reflect the 
pipeline of sales orders at any point in time. 
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
The Board believes that 
the level of risk arising 
from Waterlogic’s 
manufacturing strategy 
is broadly unchanged.
Materials costs and labour 
productivity are 
closely monitored. STRATEGIC REPORT
24 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
Description Mitigation Change
Product reputation and product liability
Waterlogic’s established reputation for quality is important 
to the Board’s plans to grow the business. Any factor or event 
that adversely affects customers’ perception of the quality 
and reliability of the Group’s products could affect its ability 
to maintain or increase revenue. 
As a manufacturer, the Group is exposed to potential liabilities 
for the reliability and safe operation of its products. Any 
widespread failure of products in the field may result in 
significant unforeseen costs, including costs of any product 
recall, and diversion of management resource to the detriment 
of ongoing operations.
Operating in the food and beverage sector, the Group 
is exposed to risk factors relating to hygiene and contamination, 
whether linked to the POU dispenser specifically or to water 
dispensers generally. 
Whilst such problems may arise due to incorrect use or 
maintenance of Waterlogic products rather than any fault 
in the product itself, customer confidence may be affected, 
with adverse consequences for sales.
The Group uses market research to identify customer needs 
and product development combines technology-led and 
market-led aspects. Prototypes are also extensively tested 
in the field prior to launch. 
Waterlogic products incorporate a range of design and 
technical features that reduce the risk of contamination in the 
course of normal use, including the antimicrobial BioCote® 
coating on key parts of cooler casings, physical separation 
of controls and dispensing nozzles and the Firewall™ UV 
purification system, which is a recognised component of 
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) regimes 
for food safety management systems. 
The Group operates rigorous quality assurance and control 
procedures both during manufacturing and prior to delivery/
installation of its products. 
The Group ensures that its products are independently 
certified to rigorous industry-recognised standards that 
exceed regulatory minimum requirements.
Recommended maintenance procedures include a check 
on the condition of the dispenser, particularly the area around 
the dispensing nozzle, to ensure cleanliness and hygiene. 
The Group also maintains public and product liability insurance 
against liabilities to third parties. Under a process implemented 
during 2013 all product related insurance claims are now 
subject to review by Waterlogic technical management.
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
Specific issues relating 
to certain bought-in 
components have caused 
an increase in in-field 
failures during 2013, 
particularly in the US.
Product quality is 
constantly monitored 
through the Group review 
of supply chain partners, 
production Quality 
Assurance and 
Pre-delivery processes. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25
Description Mitigation Change
Funding and liquidity
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group agreed 
a five year credit facility with HSBC and Clydesdale Bank. 
There is a risk that the Group could fail to fulfil obligations 
under covenants attached to this facility, leading to financial 
penalties or, in extremis, withdrawal of the facility. 
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on the portion 
of the facility that has been drawn down in the form of term 
loans and a revolving credit facility, all of which are subject 
to variable interest rates.
The Group may also be unable to secure funding 
for major investments that exceed its current facilities 
at an acceptable cost.
As part of ensuring compliance with covenants, robust cash 
forecasting procedures have been implemented and a resource 
is to be recruited.
Fixed rate swaps have been contracted to hedge the 
interest rate on the term loans. A substantial proportion 
of the revolving credit facility is subject to interest rate 
caps covering the expected duration of the facility.
Working capital requirements are monitored and the Group 
regularly reviews its bank facilities in the light of changing 
operational requirements. 
Repayments on the term loan portion of the credit facility 
increase over time to reflect the expected organic growth 
of the Group. A reserve of approved but undrawn facilities 
is also maintained.
The Group maintains ongoing contact with a number of 
financial institutions to monitor the availability and likely 
cost of additional funding, should this be required.
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
The interest rate risk has 
increased during 
2013 as a result of 
the Group’s drawing down 
on the new credit facilities 
to fund the acquisition.
The liquidity risk has 
remained broadly 
constant during 2013  
due to the Group 
maintaining appropriate 
available cash reserves. 
The risk of the Group 
being unable to access 
the funds required for 
future major investments 
has increased due to the 
Group’s drawing down  
on the new credit facilities 
to fund the acquisition  
of CCWG.
Compliance with covenant 
terms is measured and 
reported to the Board 
on a monthly basis.
Cash flow forecasts are 
monitored weekly.
Exchange rates
The Group buys and sells materials and components, 
products, goods and services internationally and is exposed 
to exchange rate risk on transactions denominated in 
currencies other than the US Dollar, predominantly Euro, 
Norwegian Kroner, Australian Dollar, Pound Sterling and 
Chinese Renminbi.
The way in which the Group’s credit facility has been drawn 
down also presents a balance sheet exposure to fluctuations 
in the Norwegian Kroner and Australian Dollar exchange rate 
that did not previously exist. 
The Group seeks to ensure similar inflows and outflows 
of cash in each of these currencies where possible through 
its normal operations, thereby creating a natural hedge. 
Foreign exchange exposures on trading transactions are 
monitored and forward contracts are used when appropriate.
Loans relating to subsidiaries trading predominantly 
in currencies other than US Dollars have been taken out in 
the appropriate foreign currency to create a natural hedge. 
Y ear-on-year change 
in level of risk
This risk has increased 
during 2013 as a result  
of the Group’s new  
credit facilities. 
The profit and loss impact 
of foreign exchange gains 
and losses is monitored 
and reported on a 
monthly basis.  GOVERNANCE
26 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Ariel Recanati 
Group Non-Executive 
Chairman, 50
Along with Jeremy Ben-David, 
Ariel Recanati is the co-founder 
of the Group and has served 
as Group Non-Executive Chairman 
since the Group’s inception 
in 1992. Mr Recanati is President 
and Director of Maritime Overseas 
Corporation (“MOC”), a private 
family management company. 
Mr Recanati is also a Director and 
Member of the Audit Committee 
of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., 
(“OSG”), a publicly traded company 
and one of the world’s leading 
bulk shipping companies engaged 
primarily in the ocean transportation 
of crude oil and petroleum products. 
He was Senior Vice President and 
Chief Strategic and Planning Officer 
of OSG from 1998 until 2003. Prior 
to that, he held numerous positions 
with subsidiaries of OSG, including 
Vice President of Chartering and 
Managing Director of OSG’s 
management subsidiary in the UK. 
He is a graduate of the London 
School of Economics, with a BSc. 
in Economics. Mr Recanati has 
been involved in several educational 
and philanthropic organisations, 
serving as a member of the Board 
of Trustees of the Dalton School 
in New Y ork City (until June 2011), 
Chairman of the Executive 
Committee of the Leon Recanati 
Institute for Maritime Studies at 
the University of Haifa and as 
a Member of the Advisory Board 
of Mount Sinai Global Health at 
the Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine in New Y ork.
Appointed to the Board 4 July 2011. 
Previously also a Director of 
Waterlogic International Limited.
Jeremy Ben-David 
Group Chief Executive 
Officer, 51
Jeremy Ben-David, along with 
Ariel Recanati, founded the Group 
in 1992 after identifying the 
opportunity for growth of POU 
water dispensers in the otherwise 
bottled cooler-dominated water 
cooler industry at that time. After 
seven years of managing the Group’s 
UK operations, securing several key 
contracts and following the sale of 
the Group’s UK business to PHS 
and the signing of a long-term 
procurement agreement, 
Mr Ben-David focused his efforts 
on securing the international 
expansion of the Group and the 
enhancement of its manufacturing 
facilities. As Group Chief Executive 
Officer, Mr Ben-David is responsible 
for the overall strategic development 
of the Group, international business 
development and key relationship 
management. From 2013, and 
following the addition of Mr Peter 
Cohen to the Board, Mr Ben-David 
is now able to focus more of his time 
on the development of the new 
Consumer Division. Mr Ben-David 
studied Economics and Business 
at Tel Aviv University and achieved 
a MBA from INSEAD.
Appointed to the Board 4 July 2011. 
Previously also a Director of 
Waterlogic International Limited.
Peter Cohen 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Waterlogic Commercial, 61
Peter Cohen joined the Waterlogic 
Board on 28 August 2012. He 
is responsible for the Group’s 
worldwide operations in Waterlogic 
Commercial. For the previous 
14 years Mr Cohen was Chief 
Executive of the PHS Group, 
a support services business with 
a turnover of over £400 million. 
PHS became a FTSE 250 company 
in June 2001 and was taken private 
by Charterhouse Development 
Capital in September 2005. 
From April 2005 until March 2011, 
Mr Cohen was a Non-Executive 
Director of Sentinel Performance 
Solutions, a company that provides 
treatment products for heating 
systems in the UK, France and Italy. 
From March 1991 until March 1998, 
Mr Cohen was Chief Executive of 
Holt Lloyd Group, an international 
consumer car care products group, 
and led an MBO in 1994, selling 
to Allied Signal in November 1997. 
He was President of Power 
Conversion, a lithium battery 
business based in New Jersey, 
US, from January 1989 to April 1991. 
Mr Cohen studied Mechanical 
Engineering at Norwich City College, 
achieving a Higher National 
Certification, and Management 
at Suffolk College in Ipswich, 
achieving a CNNA Diploma in 
management studies. He was 
elected as a fellow of the Royal 
Society for the Encouragement 
of Arts, Manufacturing and 
Commerce on 26 April 2006.
Appointed to the Board 
28 August 2012.
Robert Bell 
Group Chief Financial 
Officer, 46
Robert Bell joined the Waterlogic 
Board as Chief Financial Officer 
on 18 October 2013. Initially Mr Bell 
joined Waterlogic in January 2012 as 
Director of Accounting responsible 
for the Group’s financial operations 
and reporting and then as interim 
CFO. Prior to joining Waterlogic, 
Mr Bell worked at Fidessa for over 
eight years and served as European 
Finance Director at Wall Street 
Systems. Mr Bell has also worked 
with a number of other listed and 
private equity-focused organisations 
including Barclays Bank Plc and 
Bank of America.
Appointed to the Board  
18 October 2013. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27
Jeremy Marshall    
Non-Executive Director, 50
Jeremy Marshall is Chief Executive 
Officer of C. Hoare & Co., a leading 
independent private bank in the 
UK. He graduated from St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, in 1984 
with an MA in History and joined 
Barclays Bank Plc. From there, 
Mr Marshall moved to Bank of 
Montreal and afterwards to Credit 
Suisse, where he worked from 
1988 to 2008 in Zurich, New Y ork 
and London, holding a wide variety 
of roles in senior management and 
strategic planning. Whilst at Credit 
Suisse, Mr Marshall took a year’s 
sabbatical to complete an MBA 
at INSEAD in 1992. Mr Marshall 
joined C. Hoare & Co. in April 2009. 
He is a Trustee of the Woodland 
Trust and Christianity Explored and 
was Chairman of the St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, 500th 
Anniversary Appeal Board.
Appointed to the Board 4 July 2011.
Benoît Raillard   
Non-Executive Director, 49
Benoît Raillard is a Senior Director 
at the consulting firm AlixPartners, 
specialising in business services 
and retail. He has been a Board 
member at Fédération Française de 
la Franchise (the trade association 
for major French franchise brands) 
and also General Manager and 
Group Commercial Director at 
5àSec, the leading French provider 
of garment cleaning. Previously, 
Mr Raillard was Sales, Marketing 
and Business Development 
Director for ten years with the 
leading European workplace 
services provider, ELIS. Prior to 
this, Mr Raillard had experience 
with major corporate organisations 
(Eli Lilly and BNP Paribas) and in 
management consulting (Bain & 
Company). Mr Raillard has an MBA 
from Harvard, an MSc in Aeronautics 
from École Centrale de Paris and 
a joint MSc in Finance and Tax Law 
from Institut d’Études Politiques 
de Paris.
Appointed to the Board 4 July 2011. 
Previously also a Director of 
Waterlogic International Limited.
Ziv Gil   
Non-Executive Director, 49
Ziv Gil has been a Director and 
CEO of Rimon Investments 
Master Fund L.P., an equity private 
partnership based in Israel, since 
2006. Mr Gil is also a member 
of the investment committee 
of Phoenix Insurance and is 
the Chairman of the investment 
committee of Arxcis Global Wealth 
Management Limited. Previously, 
Mr Gil was the Managing Director 
of Dikla Mutual Funds (FIBI’s mutual 
fund group) and taught an investment 
course as part of the MBA 
programme of Tel Aviv University. 
Mr Gil holds an MBA from RSM 
Erasmus University, Holland 
and a BSc in Mathematics and 
Economics from T el Aviv University.
Appointed to the Board 4 July 2011. 
Previously also a Director of 
Waterlogic International Limited.
 Member of the Nomination Committee
 Member of the Remuneration Committee
 Member of the Audit Committee
 Committee Chairman
 Senior independent Director GOVERNANCE
28 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE
 Ariel Recanati
 Group Non-Executive Chairman
“ Board members agreed that the Board 
has sought to continuously improve the 
way it operates throughout the year 
and will continue to do so.”
Dear shareholder,
The Directors recognise the value and 
importance of high standards of corporate 
governance. As a company admitted to 
AIM, the Company is not subject to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). 
The Board has nonetheless taken steps to 
consider the main provisions of the Code 
insofar as is practical and reasonable given 
the size of the Group and the nature of 
its operations. 
A number of actions arising from 
a formal review of compliance with the 
Code undertaken in December 2012 have 
been completed during the year ended 
31 December 2013, further strengthening 
the structures, practices and disclosures 
adopted by the Group. The Board 
is satisfied that the Code’s principles and 
provisions have been considered. 
Information about the Board, governance 
structures and policies and procedures 
established within the Group is set out 
on the following pages. 
Ariel Recanati
Group Non-Executive Chairman
4 April 2014 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Board composition 
There have been two changes to the Board during the year 
ended 31 December 2013. John Skidmore was appointed as 
Group CFO in June 2013 but stepped down in October 2013. 
Robert Bell, previously Waterlogic’s Group Director of 
Accounting, was appointed as Group CFO in October 2013.
At 31 December 2013, the Board comprised three 
Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors, one 
of whom serves as Chairman of the Board. Jeremy Marshall, 
Benoît Raillard and Ziv Gil are, in the opinion of the Board, 
independent, with Jeremy Marshall serving as the senior 
independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The Board regularly reviews the scope of the knowledge, 
experience and skills provided by its members and assesses 
whether this is adequate and appropriate. All Directors have 
access to the advice and services of the Group’s Legal 
Director. Any Director may, if he considers it necessary, 
take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in relation to the fulfilment of his duties.
Board’s role and responsibilities
The role of the Board is to provide input and guidance 
in the setting of Group strategy, to oversee implementation 
of this strategy, to set or approve the Group’s objectives 
and key policies, to provide leadership to management 
and to ensure proper stewardship of the Group’s resources. 
Board composition 
as at 4 April 2014
The UK Corporate Governance 
Code provides that Independent 
Non-Executive Directors should 
comprise at least half the board, 
excluding the Chairman.
Ariel Recanti 
(50)
Jeremy  
Ben-David 
(51)
Jeremy  
Marshall
(50)
Peter Cohen 
(61)
Benoît 
Raillard
(49)
Robert Bell 
(46)
Ziv Gil
(49)
Non-Executive Chairman
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman is responsible for:
 w leadership and effective working 
of the Board;
 w setting the Board’s agenda;
 w ensuring that Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear 
information; and 
 w ensuring that the performance of the 
Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors are evaluated at least once 
a year.
The Chief Executive Officer 
is responsible for:
 w the operational management 
of the business of the Group; and
 w implementation of strategy and 
policies as agreed by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors 
are responsible for:
 w bringing independent judgement 
to bear on matters of strategy, 
performance, resourcing, key 
appointments and standards 
of conduct.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors
Corporate governance 
guidelines for AIM companies 
issued by the Quoted Companies 
Alliance require only that boards 
“should be balanced between 
executive and non-executive 
directors and should have at least 
two independent non-executive 
directors”. Waterlogic exceeds this 
requirement and meets the higher 
UK Corporate Governance Code 
requirement that at least half the 
board, excluding the chairman, 
should comprise independent 
non-executive directors. GOVERNANCE
30 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
Board committees
The Board has established a Nomination Committee, 
an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each 
of which has written terms of reference that are available 
on Waterlogic’s corporate website (www.waterlogic.com) 
and from the Company Secretary. They will also be made 
available at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board receives reports from these Committees and 
reviews their activities and recommendations made. 
Detailed reports covering the composition, responsibilities 
and workings of these committees are provided as follows: 
Audit Committee – pages 32 to 33; Nomination Committee 
– page 34; and Remuneration Committee – pages 35 to 38.
Retirement, re-election and approval 
of Board appointments
The Company’s Articles of Association require that 
all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation. 
The re-election of all serving Directors at 31 December 2012 
was approved by shareholders at the Company’s 2013 
Annual General Meeting. In accordance with the Articles of 
Association, Ariel Recanati and Ziv Gil will retire by rotation 
and be proposed for re-election at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting, at which time Robert Bell will also retire and be 
proposed for re-election as this will be the first Annual General 
Meeting following his appointment on 18 October 2013.
Board operations
The Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule 
of matters specifically reserved to itself for decision, including 
major capital expenditure, material contracts to be entered 
into by the Group, dividend policy, Board appointments 
and key operational policies. 
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its 
Committees during the year ended 31 December 2013 
and each Director’s position and attendance record 
are summarised below.
Robert Bell attended all Board meetings during the period 
following his appointment to the Board.
In addition to the formal meetings above, the Board convenes 
regularly via teleconference to receive updates on business 
performance and other matters and to consider other 
business. There is also ongoing dialogue between executive 
management and the Board as and when required.
Board and committee effectiveness
A questionnaire-based process was used to evaluate 
performance during the year ended 31 December 2012 and 
repeated in 2013. Individual Directors were required to assess 
their satisfaction with various aspects of the structure and 
operation of the Board and Committees and their own 
individual performance. Output from the process was 
discussed by the Board at its meeting in December 2013.
Overall, responses indicated a continued high level 
of satisfaction with the working methods of the Board 
and Committees.
The performance of the Chairman was also assessed by the 
independent Non-Executive Directors as part of the evaluation. 
A checklist of areas in which individual Directors may have 
training needs has been developed during 2013 to assist 
the Chairman and Directors in periodically assessing 
whether a need for further training exists.
Newly appointed Board members receive a detailed 
induction covering the Group’s strategy, operations, 
organisational structure, risks and performance.
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings 4 4 4 4
Ariel Recanati  
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 4 — — 4
Jeremy Ben-David  
Group CEO 4 — — —
Peter Cohen  
CEO, Waterlogic Commercial 4 — — —
John Skidmore  
Group CFO (appointed 17 June 2013, resigned 10 October 2013) 1 — — —
Robert Bell  
Group CFO (appointed 18 October 2013) 1 — — —
Jeremy Marshall  
Senior Non-Executive Director 4 4 4 —
Ziv Gil  
Non-Executive Director 3 3 3 3
Benoît Raillard  
Non-Executive Director 4 4 4 4 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31
Investor relations
The Board believes in open and regular dialogue with 
shareholders to ensure that the objectives and overall 
business strategy of the Company are effectively 
communicated. 
Normal relationships with shareholders are maintained 
by the Executive Directors who brief the Board 
on shareholder related matters, hold meetings with analysts 
and institutional investors immediately after publication 
of financial results and relate the views of the Group’s advisers 
to the Board. However, the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors will always make themselves available to meet 
with shareholders and see the AGM as a particular 
opportunity to do this. 
T rading updates and press releases are issued as appropriate 
and the Company’s brokers provide briefings on shareholder 
opinion and compile independent feedback from 
investor meetings.
Business ethics
The Board has sponsored the development and 
implementation of a formal Code of Business Conduct 
during the year ended 31 December 2013. All senior 
managers are required to complete an online training 
course within one month of joining the Group and all 
other personnel are provided with training to ensure 
awareness and understanding of the ethical standards 
required by Waterlogic. 
The Code of Business Conduct is supported by 
a “Speak Out” policy and external “hotline” service, also 
implemented during 2013, which encourages employees 
to report concerns about wrongdoing in the workplace 
and provide a range of ways of doing so. Information 
about all matters reported through this process is 
provided to the Audit Committee. No significant matters 
were raised during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
internal control systems, including its risk management 
processes. These are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, risk and cannot therefore provide an absolute 
assurance against material misstatements and losses. 
A formal review of the Group’s internal control systems 
was completed in December 2013. This was based on the 
“Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2005.
The Board ensures that appropriate remedial action is taken 
when weaknesses or failures in the Group’s internal control 
arrangements are identified. No weaknesses or failures that 
have led, or could lead, to a material adverse impact on the 
Group’s operations or financial performance are known to 
have arisen during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Internal control
Financial policies and approval procedures are in operation 
covering a number of key areas such as credit control, cash 
payments and capital expenditure. In addition, Waterlogic 
has in place a series of policies, practices and controls that 
are designed to ensure the reconciliation of core financial 
systems and identification and communication of changes 
in accounting standards to ensure the integrity of the 
Group’s financial reporting and consolidation processes. 
A comprehensive monthly financial reporting system 
is in place which, amongst other things, covers results 
from operations, cash flow and balance sheet review with 
comparison against budgets. Full year forecasts of financial 
performance are updated at least twice during the year.
Risk management
Key risks to which the Group is, in the view of management 
and the Board, potentially exposed are set out in the “Principal 
risks and uncertainties” section on pages 22 to 25 of the 
Strategic Report along with information about the mitigating 
measures in place.
The Executive Directors of each Group company are closely 
involved in all day-to-day operations and meet regularly with 
their management teams to identify and review business 
risks. During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group 
implemented a standardised risk assessment process to 
improve identification and evaluation of risks across the 
business. Business unit management teams are required to 
identify potential threats and assess the likelihood that they 
will occur and the likely potential impact on the Group’s 
activities should this happen. “Impact” is assessed in terms 
of the potential effect on the Group’s financial performance, 
regulatory compliance, reporting and reputation/customer 
satisfaction. Two cycles of this process were completed 
during the year.
An exercise to establish the Board’s risk appetite in 
relation to the above measures was also completed 
in December 2013. 
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function’s primary role is to provide 
the Board and senior management with objective and 
independent assurance regarding the Group’s internal 
control environment and risk management processes.
The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Group 
Chief Executive Officer, but has direct access to the 
Audit Committee without reference to executive 
management, if required.
The Audit Committee approves the programme 
of internal audit work and receives regular updates 
on internal audit findings. GOVERNANCE
32 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
This report provides information about the composition, role 
and responsibilities of the Audit Committee (“the Committee”) 
and the work it has undertaken during the year ended 
31 December 2013. 
Committee composition
The Committee comprises the three independent 
Non-Executive Directors. In the opinion of the Board, 
Ziv Gil, Benoît Raillard and Jeremy Marshall have 
the recent and relevant financial experience required 
to fulfil the responsibilities of this committee. 
Committee role and responsibilities
The role of the Committee is to assist the Board 
in discharging its responsibilities for ensuring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial reporting and internal 
control systems and to oversee the effectiveness 
and objectivity of the external auditor. 
The Committee is responsible for, among other things: 
 w monitoring the integrity of Waterlogic’s annual report 
and accounts, interim Financial Statements and any 
other formal announcements; 
 w advising the Board with regard to whether the 
annual report and accounts are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide shareholders 
with information necessary to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy; 
 w reviewing compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements; 
 w ensuring the effectiveness, objectivity and independence 
of the Group’s external auditor and overseeing the 
external auditor’s remuneration; 
 w monitoring the scope and effectiveness of the internal 
audit function; 
 w monitoring issues raised through the Group’s 
“Speak Out” reporting process; and
 w advising the Board on internal control and risk 
management matters. 
Committee operations
The Committee met four times during the year ended 
31 December 2013 and also convened regularly via 
teleconference. Individual Committee members’ attendance 
is set out in the table on page 30. Other Board members, 
the Director of Internal Audit, other senior managers and 
the external auditor attend by invitation when appropriate.
The Committee met formally with the Group’s external 
auditor twice during the year ended 31 December 2013, 
both with and without executive management in attendance. 
The Committee Chairman also maintained contact with the 
external auditor between formal meetings. 
Main activities of the Committee during the year
The Committee’s deliberations during the year included:
 w review of the Group’s 2012 annual report and accounts 
in conjunction with the external auditor’s report on the 
2012 year-end audit;
 w consideration of the external auditor’s performance 
and suitability for re-appointment;
 w review of the Group’s interim results;
 w review of plans for the 2013 year-end audit, including 
materiality considerations, specific areas of risk and 
changes to accounting standards and regulations with 
implications for the Group’s reporting and the external 
auditor’s proposed fees;
 w review of internal audit plans and reported findings; and
 w review of output from the corporate risk 
assessment process. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33
Specific matters relating to 2013 considered by the Audit 
Committee prior to the date of this Report are set out below: 
 w accounting for business combinations;
 w consideration of the carrying value of goodwill 
and identified intangible assets;
 w consideration of the appropriateness of the 
capitalisation of internal development costs;
 w appropriateness of revenue recognition;
 w consideration of the appropriateness of the prior 
year restatement in relation to POU fixed assets;
 w recoverability of trade receivables;
 w accounting for financial instruments, specifically 
derivative contracts;
 w taxation, including transfer pricing and deferred 
tax asset recognition;
 w change in presentation of amortisation on acquired 
intangibles, which are now separately identified on 
the Group’s income statement as an adjusting item 
to operating profit; and
 w going concern and covenant compliance.
External auditor
Effectiveness and appointment/re-appointment
The Board, Audit Committee and executive management 
maintain an open dialogue with the Group’s external auditor.
Audit plans and findings are reviewed and this, together 
with other relevant information provided by management 
and the Group’s external auditor, informs the Committee’s 
evaluation of the external auditor’s performance.
The Group’s current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, was 
appointed as auditor of the Waterlogic International Group 
in 2008. Waterlogic does not, as a matter of policy, put the 
provision of external audit services out to tender on a regular 
basis. The Board and Audit Committee are aware of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that FTSE350 
companies should put their external audit contract out to 
tender at least every ten years and periodically review 
whether to do so as a matter of good practice.
Independence
Whilst recognising there may be occasions when 
its knowledge of the Group means the external auditor 
is best placed to undertake certain non-audit-related 
accounting, advisory and consultancy work required 
by the Group, the Board seeks to ensure that the auditor 
is, and is seen to be, independent. 
The Board approved a detailed policy in this area 
in December 2012. Under this policy, various types 
of non-audit service, of which the Group’s auditor is potentially 
a provider are categorised as wholly compatible, potentially 
incompatible or wholly incompatible with maintaining the 
auditor’s independence. An authorisation process for 
proposed expenditure on non-audit services is defined 
and ongoing monitoring of such expenditure has 
been implemented. 
In addition to the above, the Committee also considers 
information provided by the auditor in relation to its internal 
processes for safeguarding its own independence.
Analysis of the external auditor’s fees can be found 
in note 7 to the Financial Statements.
Ziv Gil
Chairman of the Audit Committee
4 April 2014 GOVERNANCE
34 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
This report provides information about the composition, 
role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee 
(the “Committee”) and the work it has undertaken 
during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Committee composition
The Committee comprises the Chairman and two independent 
Non-Executive Directors. 
Committee role and responsibilities
The role of the Committee is to provide a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
Board members and other senior employees across 
the Group.
The Committee is responsible for, among other things: 
 w reviewing the balance and composition of the Board 
from time to time;
 w considering succession planning at Board and senior 
management level;
 w preparing a role description and summary of capability 
requirements for Board and other senior management 
appointments as and when a need arises;
 w identifying and proposing for Board approval suitable 
candidates to fill Board vacancies;
 w ensuring that Non-Executive Directors receive formal 
letters of appointment clearly setting out what is 
expected of them; and
 w ensuring that Non-Executive Directors are devoting 
sufficient time to properly fulfil their duties.
Committee operations
The Committee met four times during the year ended 
31 December 2013. Individual Committee members’ 
attendance is set out in the table on page 30. Other 
Board members attend by invitation when appropriate.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Specific matters considered by the Committee during 
the year ended 31 December 2013 included:
 w the appointment of John Skidmore and subsequently 
Robert Bell as Group CFO; 
 w the extent and immediacy of any need to recruit 
additional Board-level resource with specialist 
understanding of consumer products and markets; 
 w succession planning and potential exposures to loss 
of key senior individuals;
 w development of the Group’s position and policy 
on diversity matters (see below); and
 w the nature and extent of any requirement for greater 
formalisation of human resource management 
arrangements in the Group. 
Diversity matters
The following is a summary of the Board’s position 
on diversity matters:
“  The Board recognises the value of diversity both in its own 
membership and within the Group’s wider employee base. 
Whilst it believes that the market sectors in which the Group 
operates are such that gender diversity in Board membership 
would not, of itself, bring specific benefits or insights, 
as matter of policy the Board believes the search for new 
Board candidates should be conducted, and appointments 
should be made, on merit, against objective criteria and with 
due regard for the benefits that diversity, including gender 
diversity, could provide. 
  Business units have in place appropriate policies in relation 
to equal opportunities in the workplace. Appointments, 
rewards and advancement in the Group’s wider employee 
base are also based on merit. As a matter of principle, 
the Board does not accept discrimination against, or 
in favour of, any individual or group of individuals. Diversity, 
like other matters, is kept under regular review.”
Benoît Raillard
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
4 April 2014 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The information provided in this part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
This report sets out the remuneration policy of Waterlogic Plc. 
As a company admitted to trading on AIM the Company 
is not required to provide a formal remuneration report. 
This report is provided for information purposes to give 
greater transparency to Waterlogic Plc’s remuneration policy. 
Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee (“the Committee”)
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 December 2013.
The report explains any major decisions or changes 
in remuneration made during the year and the context 
of those changes. It also summarises the functioning and 
membership of the Committee.
The Committee
The Committee comprises the three independent 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, Jeremy Marshall 
(Chairman), Benoît Raillard and Ziv Gil. The Committee has 
clearly defined terms of reference which will be made 
available at the AGM. During 2013, the Committee met 
four times and all members attended at least three 
of the meetings.
The Committee is responsible for establishing 
a framework for setting and maintaining at appropriate 
levels the remuneration of the Executive Directors, 
the Chairman and such other members of executive 
management across the Group as it is designated 
by the Board to consider. 
The objective of the framework is to ensure that members 
of the executive management are provided with appropriate 
incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, 
in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their 
contributions to the success of the Group. In determining 
remuneration, the Committee takes into account the 
performance of the Group and its Executives together with 
comparisons to the pay conditions of comparable 
companies.
The remuneration packages are constructed to provide 
a balance between fixed and variable compensation 
and generally comprise basic salaries which are reviewed 
annually by the Committee, usual benefits such as private 
medical insurance and a discretionary performance related 
bonus. Save as required by law, the Group does not 
operate a pension scheme. In addition, the Committee 
will determine whether awards should be granted under 
the Company’s Performance Share Plan. Generally, the 
exercise of awards will be conditional upon the achievement 
of performance targets set at the time of grant and measured 
over a period of time which, normally, shall not be less 
than three years.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint 
remuneration consultants to advise it and agree its terms 
of reference. Kepler Associates, which has no connection 
with or interest in the Company, was appointed to advise 
on the appropriate remuneration packages to be put in 
place at the time of the Company’s Admission to AIM.
The Committee meets at least once a year and at such 
times as the Chairman of the Committee thinks fit. The 
Chairman of the Committee is appointed by the Board 
on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 
The quorum for the Committee is two and, in the absence 
of the Chairman, the other members present shall choose 
one of them to chair the meeting.
Major decisions on Directors’ remuneration
During the year, the following key decisions were 
considered by the Committee:
 w agreement of the bonuses payable in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2012;
 w approval of the Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2012;
 w review and approval of bonus plans in respect 
of the year ended 31 December 2013;
 w review and approval of increases in fees 
of Non-Executive Directors in April 2013;
 w the grant of PSP awards to Executive Directors 
in July 2013;
 w agreement of remuneration package of Robert Bell 
following his appointment as Chief Financial Officer 
in October 2013;
 w consideration of PSP awards to be made in future 
years as part of overall package of PSP awards 
for Executive Directors;
 w review and approval of an extension of period between 
vesting and lapsing of shares awarded under PSP, from 
six months to twelve months; and
 w consideration of the administrative operation of the PSP 
including the possible appointment of a broker. GOVERNANCE
36 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Service contracts and notice periods
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment 
and their appointment is terminable on three months’ notice 
by either the Executive Director or the Company given 
at any time. In the event of termination of their appointment 
they are not entitled to any compensation.
In addition, Jeremy Ben-David is engaged under 
executive service agreements with other Group entities. 
During 2013 Mr Ben-David was engaged with Waterlogic 
International Limited and WLI Trading Limited, whilst from 
1 April 2014 an administrative change was made whereby 
Mr Ben-David is engaged under two agreements with 
WLI Trading Limited only. These are subject to termination 
on twelve months’ notice from either the Director or the 
employing company given at any time. 
Peter Cohen and Robert Bell are also engaged under 
exclusive service agreements with WLI (UK) Limited 
subject to six months’ notice by either party. 
Apart from notice entitlement and payment in lieu, the 
service agreements with Jeremy Ben-David, Peter Cohen 
and Robert Bell do not provide for benefits to be given 
on termination of employment.
The letters of appointment and service agreements of 
the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal office hours 
and at the AGM from 15 minutes prior to the meeting until 
the conclusion of the meeting.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors each have a letter 
of appointment and their appointment is terminable 
on three months’ notice by either the Non-Executive 
Director or the Company given at any time. In the event 
of termination of their appointment they are not entitled 
to any compensation. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than those 
of the Chairman) are determined by the Chairman and 
Executive Directors having regard to the need to attract 
high calibre individuals with the right experience, the time 
and responsibilities entailed and comparative fees paid 
in the market in which the Group operates. They are 
not eligible for pensions or pension contributions. 
The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal office hours and at the AGM from 15 minutes 
prior to the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
Directors’ remuneration
The information provided in this part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report is subject to audit.
Disclosure of single figure of remuneration
The remuneration of each Director during the year ended 
31 December 2013 is detailed in the table below:
Director
Fees/
salary
$’000
Bonuses
$’000
Benefits 
in kind
$’000
Share based 
incentives
$000
2013 
total
$’000
2012 
total
$’000
Executive
J Ben-David 505 157 12 — 674 632
P Cohen 470 148 5 643 1,266 458
J Skidmore
(i)
93 — 5 — 98 —
R Bell
(ii)
63 24 3 28 118 —
S Harrison
(iii)
— — — — — 581
Non-Executive
A Recanati 105 — — — 105 103
Z Gil 62 — — — 62 60
J Marshall 59 — — 74 133 141
B Raillard 61 — — 67 128 260
Aggregate remuneration 1,418 329 25 812 2,584 2,235
Where appropriate, the information in this table has been translated into US Dollars based on the average exchange 
rates existing over the relevant period. Share based incentives include the expense recorded in the year for the LTIP, 
PSP and Non-Executive awards.
(i) Appointed 17 June 2013, resigned 11 October 2013.
(ii) Appointed 18 October 2013.
(iii) Resigned 31 December 2012. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37
Directors’ remuneration continued
Disclosure of single figure of remuneration continued
The following table illustrates the total remuneration of each of the three Executive Directors in 2013 based 
upon performance in the period, as well as what could have been earned if either the minimum or maximum 
performance criteria had been met.
* Group CFO remuneration from date of appointment.
Taxable benefits in kind
The taxable benefits in kind received by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 are not considered 
significant in the context of total Directors’ remuneration. Accordingly, no further analysis of these benefits 
is included in this report.
Directors and their interests
The interests of each Director (including members of their immediate family as defined by IAS 24) all of which 
are beneficial (except as noted below) over the Ordinary Shares of the Company are as follows:
Director
2013
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares
 2012
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares
J Ben-David 20,004,138 19,954,138
P Cohen 70,000 —
R Bell 5,000 —
A Recanati 19,414,137 19,414,137
Z Gil 119,033 119,033
B Raillard — —
J Marshall 30,000 —
Ariel Recanati, his wife and their daughters (including through family trusts) own Logiceau Company LLC, Logiceau 
Company 2 LLC and Logiceau Company 3 LLC which own Ordinary Shares. On 16 September 2013, 1,371,396 Ordinary 
Shares were transferred to Logiceau Company 4 LLC. Beneficial ownership continues to be held by trusts for the benefit 
of Ariel and Tal Recanati and their immediate family members and no consideration was paid by any party for the transfers.
Jeremy Ben-David was the settlor of, and he and his immediate family are beneficiaries of, the Siveytal Trust, of which 
Pentera Trustees Limited is the trustee with its nominee company, Pione Nominees Limited, being the registered owner 
of 19,954,138 Ordinary Shares. A further 50,000 Ordinary Shares are held by Bank Julius Baer, a nominee company of 
which Pentera Trustees Limited is the trustee.
1,200
1,000
800
600
Minimum Achieved Maximum
400
200
0
Group CEO 
257
523
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Long-term variable
505 505 505
$’000
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
Minimum Achieved Maximum 0
CEO Waterlogic 
Commercial
643
643
776
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Long-term variable
148
470
495
470 470
$’000
200
150
100
50
Minimum Achieved Maximum 0
Group CFO  
(75 days)*
28
28
37
 Fixed
 Annual variable
 Long-term variable
24
63
59
63 63
$’000 GOVERNANCE
38 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Directors’ remuneration continued
Directors and their interests continued
In addition to the interests in Ordinary Shares shown on page 37 conditional share awards have been granted to Peter Cohen 
and Robert Bell under the PSP adopted by the Company and Benoît Raillard and Jeremy Marshall hold Non-Executive awards. 
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares which could be issued to Directors in the future under the Plan is shown below:
Director
Earliest 
vesting 
date
2013
Number of
Ordinary
Shares
2012
Number of
Ordinary
Shares
P Cohen
(i)
31 December 2015 1,100,000 1,200,000
R Bell
(i)
11 June 2015 215,000 10,000
B Raillard
(ii)
31 July 2013 123,390 123,390
J Marshall
(ii) 
11 July 2014 97,005 97,005
(i) Subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions in addition to continued service.
(ii) Subject only to continued service as a Director.
Scheme interests awarded in the year
There have been no share option awards under the PSP during the period.
Current position on outstanding PSP awards
The table below shows, in relation to each Director, the total number of share interests with and without performance 
conditions, the total number of awards with and without performance measures, those vested but unexercised and 
those exercised:
Shares Awards
Director
Without 
performance 
conditions
With 
performance 
measures
Without 
performance
 measures
Vested but
 unexercised
Exercised
during 
the year
J Ben-David 20,004,138 — — — —
P Cohen 70,000 1,100,000 — — —
R Bell 5,000 215,000 — — —
A Recanati 19,414,137 — — — —
Z Gil 119,033 — — — —
B Raillard — — 123,000 123,000 —
J Marshall 30,000 — 97,005 — —
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office were made in the year.
Pension entitlements
Some subsidiaries within the Group make contributions based on annual salary to employees’ private pension schemes 
or to statutory bodies. Other than amounts that are deducted from employees’ remuneration and accrued pending payment 
to the pension fund or statutory body concerned, no further obligations fall on the Group as the assets of these arrangements 
are held and managed by third parties entirely separate from the Group. None of the Directors are currently in receipt 
of contributions to pension schemes or other retirement benefits.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
Jeremy Marshall
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 April 2014 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 39
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs 
of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and 
auditor’s report, for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
An indication of likely future developments in the business 
of the Group and details of research and development 
activities are included in the Strategic Report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by 
the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 39 
to the Financial Statements.
Dividends
The Board does not propose a dividend for the year 
(2012: $nil). It intends to pay dividends to shareholders 
in the future when the Group is able and it is appropriate 
to do so. The dividend policy continues to be reviewed 
regularly by the Board.
Capital structure
Details of the stated and issued share capital of the Company 
are shown in note 29. The Company has one class of Ordinary 
Shares which carry no right to fixed income. There is no limit 
on the number of shares that the Company can issue.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 37. 
No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares have 
been fully paid.
Directors
The Directors, who served throughout the year except 
as noted, were as follows:
Ariel Recanati – Chairman of the Board 
Jeremy Ben-David – Group CEO
Peter Cohen – CEO, Waterlogic Commercial
John Skidmore – Group CFO (appointed 17 June 2013, 
resigned 11 October 2013)
Robert Bell – Group CFO (appointed 18 October 2013)
Jeremy Marshall – Non-Executive Director 
Ziv Gil – Non-Executive Director 
Benoît Raillard – Non-Executive Director 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has in place third party indemnity insurance 
for the benefit of its Directors which remains in force at the 
date of this report.
Substantial shareholdings
There are no substantial shareholdings which would 
require disclosure under the requirements of Chapter 5 
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, other than 
those disclosed under “Directors’ and their interests” 
in the Directors’ Remuneration report.
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 
the year and nor has it done so up to the date of this report.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always 
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming 
disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment 
with the Group continues and that appropriate training 
is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons should, 
as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on the involvement 
of its employees and has continued to keep them informed 
on matters affecting them as employees and on the various 
factors affecting the performance of the Group. This is 
achieved through formal and informal meetings, periodic 
e-mails and the annual Financial Statements. 
Diversity
The Board recognises the value of diversity both in its own 
membership and within the Group’s wider employee base. 
Whilst the Board believes that the market sectors in which 
the Group operates are such that gender diversity in Board 
membership would not, of itself, bring specific benefits 
or insights, as a matter of policy the Board believes that the 
search for new Board candidates should be conducted, 
and, when required, appointments made, on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits that 
diversity, including gender diversity, could provide. Business 
units have in place appropriate policies in relation to equal 
opportunities in the workplace. Appointments, rewards and 
advancement in the Group’s wider employee base are also 
based on merit. As a matter of principle, the Board does not 
accept discrimination against, or in favour of, any individual 
or group of individuals. Diversity, as with other management 
policies, is under regular review.
Auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval 
of this annual report confirms that:
 w so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 w the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Although the Company is incorporated in Jersey and is 
therefore not required to comply with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 in relation to these Financial Statements, 
this confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of that Act.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue 
in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Robert Bell 12 Castle Street
Group Chief Financial Officer St Helier
4 April 2014 Jersey
 Channel Islands
 JE2 3RT GOVERNANCE
40 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial 
Statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have elected to prepare the Financial Statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. The Financial 
Statements are required by law to be properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that 
Financial Statements present fairly for each financial 
year the Group’s financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation 
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions 
in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria 
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the 
International Accounting Standards Board’s “Framework 
for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements”. 
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS. 
However, Directors are also required to:
 w properly select and apply accounting policies;
 w present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 
comparable and understandable information; 
 w provide additional disclosures when compliance 
with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient 
to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s 
financial position and financial performance; and
 w make an assessment of the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group 
and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41
We have audited the Group Financial Statements (the “Financial Statements”) of Waterlogic Plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which 
comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 40. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditor’s 
Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial 
Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Financial Statements:
 w give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 w have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union; and
 w have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 w proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 w the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 w we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Tobias Wright FCA 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Southampton, United Kingdom
4 April 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WATERLOGIC PLC 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
42 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Year ended 31 December
2013 2012*
Note $’000 $’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 124,043 100,968
Cost of sales (45,184) (39,691)
Gross profit 78,859 61,277
Administrative expenses (72,096) (57,513)
Distribution expenses (679) (698)
Marketing expenses (1,525) (1,113)
Other gains and losses 9 868 346
Operating profit 8 5,427 2,299
Adjustment for the effect of:
Share based incentives 8 1,709 1,630
Capital reorganisation related costs 8 — 56
Corporate reorganisation costs 8 44 774
Acquisition and integration related costs 8 1,710 2,308
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 8 3,368 1,788
Adjusted operating profit 12,258 8,855
Finance income 10 139 177
Finance costs 11 (2,216) (730)
Profit before tax 3,350 1,746
Income tax expense 12 (1,684) (510)
Profit for the year 8 1,666 1,236
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 1,601 972
Non-controlling interests 33 65 264
1,666 1,236
Earnings per share
Basic (cents per share) 14 2.10 1.28
Diluted (cents per share) 14 2.07 1.26
Adjusted earnings per share
Basic (cents per share) 14 9.86 9.32
Diluted (cents per share) 14 9.74 9.16
 * See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Year ended 31 December
2013 2012*
Note $’000 $’000
Profit for the year 8 1,666 1,236
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Cash flow hedges: losses arising during the period 39 (187) —
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (2,021) 882
Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified 52 —
Total comprehensive income for the year (490) 2,118
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company (503) 1,848
Non-controlling interests 33 13 270
(490) 2,118
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
Note
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
2011*
$000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 55,159 24,858 11,199
Other intangible assets 16 35,065 20,296 8,801
Property, plant and equipment 17 26,349 14,712 9,091
Deferred tax asset 24 1,171 1,343 545
Investment in joint venture 18 825 — —
Derivative financial instruments 23, 39 187 — —
Total non-current assets 118,756 61,209 29,636
Current assets
Inventories 20 18,155 13,361 12,495
Trade and other receivables 21 24,983 23,312 19,441
Cash and cash equivalents 16,619 30,154 51,130
Total current assets 59,757 66,827 83,066
Total assets 178,513 128,036 112,702
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Stated capital 29 — — —
Additional paid in capital 30 62,109 60,389 60,261
Translation reserve 31 (1,723) 298 (578)
Hedging reserve 31 (135) — —
Share based payment reserve 4,132 4,420 2,882
Retained earnings 32 25,501 23,900 22,928
Equity attributable to Shareholders 89,884 89,007 85,493
Non-controlling interest 33 114 297 27
Total equity 89,998 89,304 85,520
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET CONTINUED
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
Note
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
2011*
$000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES continued
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings:
– bank and other borrowings 43,944 2,783 4,173
– obligations under finance leases 22, 25 18 21 89
Total borrowings 22 43,962 2,804 4,262
Derivative financial instruments 23, 39 187 96 132
Deferred tax liability 24 5,610 1,520 282
Provisions 27 112 81 69
Deferred and contingent consideration 28 1,414 1,271 1,863
Total non-current liabilities 51,285 5,772 6,608
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 26 24,861 19,407 13,770
Borrowings:
– bank and other borrowings 3,631 2,855 3,431
– obligations under finance leases 22, 25 38 65 89
Total borrowings 22 3,669 2,920 3,520
Current tax liabilities 1,608 1,484 1,112
Provisions 27 345 81 92
Deferred revenue 6,707 5,496 2,069
Deferred and contingent consideration 28 40 3,572 11
Total current liabilities 37,230 32,960 20,574
Total liabilities 88,515 38,732 27,182
Total equity and liabilities 178,513 128,036 112,702
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
The consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 4 April 2014 and were signed 
on its behalf by:
Robert Bell 
Group Chief Financial Officer FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
46 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Stated 
capital
$’000
Additional
paid in
capital
$’000
Hedging
 reserve
$000
Translation
reserve
$’000
Share based 
payment
reserve
$’000
Retained
earnings*
$’000
Attributable to
shareholders
$’000
 Non-
controlling
interest
$’000
Total
$’000 
Balance at 1 January 2012 
– previously reported — 60,261 — (578) 2,882 24,033 86,598 27 86,625
Prior period adjustment (note 3)* — — — — — (1,105) (1,105) — (1,105)
Balance at 1 January 2012 
– restated — 60,261 — (578) 2,882 22,928 85,493 27 85,520
Fair value of put and call option 
over non-controlling interest 
acquired in the year — 128 — — — — 128 — 128
Transfer to reserves for share 
based payment expense — — — — 1,538 — 1,538 — 1,538
Profit for the year — — — — — 972 972 264 1,236
Other comprehensive income — — — 876 — — 876 6 882
Balance at 1 January 2013 — 60,389 — 298 4,420 23,900 89,007 297 89,304
Purchase of 
non-controlling interest — 235 — — — — 235 (235) —
Exercise of PSP awards — 1,485 — — (1,992) — (507) — (507)
Transfer to reserves for share 
based payment expense — — — — 1,704 — 1,704 — 1,704
Profit for the year — — — — — 1,601 1,601 65 1,666
Other comprehensive income — — (135) (2,021) — — (2,156) (13) (2,169)
Balance at 31 December 2013 — 62,109 (135) (1,723) 4,132 25,501 89,884 114 89,998
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Year ended 31 December
2013 2012*
Note $’000 $’000
Profit after tax for the year 1,666 1,236
Adjustments:
– depreciation and amortisation 10,645 6,757
– acquisitions (contingent consideration adjustments) 28 (41) 375
– share based incentives expense 37 1,709 1,630
– income tax expense 12 1,684 510
– net interest expense and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 2,077 584
– loss on disposal of non-current assets 253 57
– share of loss of equity accounted joint venture 9 65 —
– foreign exchange movements 9 (1,048) (616)
Adjusted operating profit before working capital movements 17,010 10,533
Net effect of working capital movements 35 191 1,916
Cash flow before purchase of rental assets, interest and tax 17,201 12,449
Purchases of rental assets (5,946) (3,097)
Proceeds on disposal of rental assets 82 57
Interest paid (1,645) (488)
Tax paid (2,201) (2,016)
Net cash from operating activities 7,491 6,905
Investing activities
Interest received 139 181
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,170 4
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,400) (2,181)
Purchases of intangible assets (2,117) (1,380)
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (56,304) (21,045)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest (1,622) —
Deferred and contingent consideration paid (2,728) (12)
Investment in joint venture 18 (566) —
Net cash used in investing activities (63,428) (24,433)
Financing activities
New bank loans raised 51,845 1,257
Repayment of bank loans and other financing (8,654) (4,567)
Payment of derivative financial instruments (394) —
Net cash from financing activities 42,797 (3,310)
Translation differences (51) 17
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (13,191) (20,821)
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 29,810 50,631
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35 16,619 29,810
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
48 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
1. General information
Waterlogic Plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) operate as a vertically integrated business engaged in the design, 
manufacture, distribution, servicing and sale of point-of-use water machines in worldwide markets.
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”). The Company 
is incorporated in Jersey under registration number 108193. The address of its registered office is 12 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
JE2 3RT and the Company’s operating activities are based in Ireland.
The consolidated Financial Statements present the financial record of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 (the “Financial Statements”).
Companies in the consolidated financial information
The principal subsidiary undertakings included within the Financial Statements are set out in note 19. 
2. Outlook for adoption of future standards (new and amended)
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU):
 w Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Contributions
 w IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 
 w IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
 w IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
 w IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
 w IAS 27 (amended) Separate Financial Statements
 w IAS 28 (amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
 w Annual improvements to IFRS: 2010–2012 Cycle and 2011–2013 Cycle
 w IAS 32 (amended) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 w IFRS 10 (amended), IFRS 12 (amended) and IAS 27
 w IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
 w IAS 36 (amended) Impairment of Assets
 w IAS 39 (amended) Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
 w IFRIC 21 Levies
With the exception of IFRS 9, the Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in the future period will not have 
a material impact on these Financial Statements, except for additional disclosures, when the relevant standards come into effect.
IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of the Group’s Financial Statements in future periods. However, it is not practicable 
to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other standards listed above will have a material impact on the Financial Statements 
of the Group in future periods.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently for all periods presented in the Financial Statements.
Basis of preparation
The Company has prepared the Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The 
Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of 
certain financial instruments that are reassured and revalued at amounts or fair values at the end of each financial reporting period, as explained 
in the accounting policies below. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and 
services. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating 
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take 
those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure 
purposes in these consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, except for share based payment transactions that are 
within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair 
value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of preparation continued
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which inputs 
to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described 
as follows:
 w Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 w Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
 w Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The Financial Statements are presented in US Dollars. This is the predominant functional currency of the Group and is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which it operates. Foreign operations are consolidated within the Financial Statements in accordance with the policies 
set out below. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities and position in the market are described in the Strategic Report. The Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertainties within the global economy. The Group has considerable 
financial resources, recurring revenue streams and a broad spread of customers. As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the 
forecasts for the coming year, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial 
Statements. Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 25.
Restatement
The Directors use adjusted measures to judge the profitability of the Group to provide them with a consistent basis for comparison of the Group’s 
results, on a year on year basis. “Adjusted measures” in previous periods included adjustments for share based incentives, capital reorganisation 
related costs, corporate reorganisation costs and acquisition and integration related costs. In 2013 the Group has opted to also include amortisation 
of acquired intangibles within adjusting items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013. As such, 
in accordance with IAS 8, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been restated to provide the appropriate 
comparative as a result of a change in definition of “Adjusted Measures”. The result of this is the inclusion of $1,788,000 of amortisation of 
acquired intangibles within adjusting items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012, with a 
commensurate increase in adjusted operating profit for the period. There has been no effect on profit before tax, the consolidated balance sheet 
or the consolidated cash flow statement as a result of this restatement.
The consolidated income statement comparative for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the consolidated balance sheet comparatives 
for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 have been restated to eliminate the effects of intra-group profits generated upon 
the sale of POU dispensers between Group entities and held as property, plant and equipment for rental by the Group under operating leases 
at the respective period ends. The amounts restated are an increase in the cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2012 of $228,000 and 
a reduction in the deferred tax expense for 2012 of $15,000. The impact of the restatement upon the consolidated balance sheet comparatives 
is a reduction in POU dispensers cost as at 31 December 2012 of $3,530,000 (2011: $2,696,000), a reduction in POU dispensers accumulated 
depreciation as at 31 December 2012 of $1,940,000 (2011: $1,335,000), an increase in deferred tax assets as at 31 December 2012 of $272,000 
(2011: $257,000) and a decrease in retained earnings as at 31 December 2012 by $1,318,000 (2011: $1,105,000). There has been no impact upon 
the net movement in cash and cash equivalents as a result of these restatements.
Basis of consolidation
The Financial Statements incorporate the results of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year. Subsidiaries 
are entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. 
Under Article 105(11) of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 the directors of a holding company need not prepare separate accounts (i.e. company 
only accounts) if consolidated accounts for the company are prepared, unless required to do so by the members of the company by ordinary 
resolution. The members of the Company have not passed a resolution requiring separate accounts and, in the Directors’ opinion, the Company 
meets the definition of a holding company. As permitted by the law, the Directors have elected not to prepare separate accounts.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from 
the effective date of acquisition.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used 
by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interests of non-controlling shareholders 
are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests 
at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to 
non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
50 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. 
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received 
is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
Business combinations
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value 
of the assets acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Acquisition costs are recognised directly 
in profit and loss as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired including intangible assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. The excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition 
is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement for the period.
Where applicable the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
measured at its acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement 
period adjustments are adjusted against the cost of acquisition. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional 
information obtained during the “measurement period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances 
that existed at the acquisition date.
The accounting for all subsequent changes in fair value of contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends 
on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured and its subsequent 
settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is re-measured at subsequent balance 
sheet dates in accordance with IAS 39 or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding 
gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 (2008) are recognised 
at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
 w deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
 w liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share based payment awards are measured 
in accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payment; and
 w assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the “acquisition date”). Goodwill is measured 
as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of 
the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired 
and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, 
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), 
the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each 
of the Group’s cash generating units expected to benefit from synergies arising from the combination. Cash generating units to which goodwill 
has been attributed under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the 
unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss 
is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis 
of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in determining profit or loss on disposal.
Joint ventures
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control. They are established by contractual agreement and 
require the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity 
method and are initially recognised at cost. The consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s share of the total comprehensive income 
and equity movements of equity accounted joint controlled entities, from the date that joint control commences until the date that or joint control 
ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and 
recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of an investee. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course 
of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and after eliminating intra-group sales.
The Group recognises revenue when all the following conditions are satisfied:
 w the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods;
 w the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control 
over the goods sold;
 w the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
 w it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity; and
 w the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue recognised in the income statement but not yet invoiced is held on the balance sheet within “Trade and other receivables”. 
Revenue invoiced but not yet recognised in the income statement is held on the balance sheet within “Deferred revenue”.
Sales of goods
Sales of goods are either “direct” to end-user customers or “indirect” to wholesale distributors. Revenue from the supply of goods is recognised 
as soon as substantially all risks and rewards relating to the title of the goods have been transferred to the customer.
Customer rebates
Contracts involving the sale of goods that result in rebates or the supply of POU water dispensers free of charge to qualifying customers 
(usually determined by volume of sales in a given period) are accounted for as multiple element revenue transactions and the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable is allocated between the goods supplied and the award of rebates or free issues earned and granted. 
The consideration allocated to provision for rebates is measured by reference to their fair value – the amount for which the earned credits could 
be sold separately. Such consideration is not recognised as revenue at the time of the initial sale transaction but is deferred and recognised 
as revenue only when the Group’s obligations have been fulfilled and the actual value of any rebate or free issues determined.
Sale of rental contracts
The Group will occasionally sell the rights under a rental contract together with the related POU water dispensers to a third party finance house. 
Where the sale to the third party transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the third party this is accounted for as a “direct” 
sale of goods. Where the Group retains a significant interest in the underlying asset the sale proceeds are recognised as borrowings and the Group 
continues to recognise the gross revenues under the rental contract as they are earned. The arrangements have been made both with and 
without recourse.
Rental income
Rental income is made up of (i) revenue from services and (ii) revenue from the supply of goods where the Group is lessor in an operating 
lease. Revenue for rental services is recognised proportionately over the duration of the rental agreement and revenue for operating leases 
is recognised proportionally over the duration of the lease.
Supply of services
Sales of services are recognised proportionally over the duration of the service period, provided a right to consideration has been established. 
Fees charged for installation of goods at customer premises are recognised at the time installation is successfully completed, whether the 
goods are supplied subject to a sale or lease agreement.
Late fees
Where a customer does not pay outstanding amounts in accordance with the contracted terms of trade the Group may levy late fees. Late fees 
are recognised within income as they arise.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount 
on initial recognition. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
52 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred 
in negotiating and arranging an operating lease (except where immaterial) are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised 
on a straight line basis over the lease term. Hitherto, these costs have been insignificant and as such have been expensed as incurred.
Rental agreements run for a minimum period of twelve months and typically for three to five years. Some rental agreements have no fixed end 
date and may be cancelled by either party subject to a minimum notice period or early termination penalty. The average useful economic life for 
a point-of-use (“POU”) water device is approximately four to eight years whilst refurbishment can extend the life of some devices to eleven years 
or more. For this reason existing rental agreements are not judged to transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable 
to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (opposite). Contingent 
rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
In the event that lease incentives are received at the time the entity enters into an operating lease agreement, such incentives are recognised 
as a liability and recycled through the income statement over the term of the lease agreement. The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised 
in the income statement as a reduction to rental expense on a straight line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative 
of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies
The individual Financial Statements of each subsidiary are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(its functional currency). The US Dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group and presentation currency for the Financial Statements.
In preparing the Financial Statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and 
liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary 
items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise except for:
 w exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under financial instruments/hedge 
accounting); and
 w exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely 
to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognised initially in other comprehensive income 
and reclassified from equity to the income statement on disposal or partial disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting the Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at exchange rates 
prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates 
fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, 
are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate).
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat goodwill of $434,000 arising on acquisitions made before March 2006, that were 
historically recognised in US Dollars, as US Dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Borrowing costs
The Group has incurred no borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates but before investment or finance income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed 
retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes 
are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. T axable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are only recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries where the Group is unable 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws 
and rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to 
items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are off set when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tangible and intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment
Land, buildings, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Freehold land 
is not depreciated.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less residual value over their useful lives, using the straight line 
method, on the following bases:
Point-of-use water dispensers on rental 4–8 years 
Plant and machinery 3–10 years 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3–10 years 
Motor vehicles 3–5 years 
Property 30 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the income statement on the transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group has no class of tangible fixed asset that has been revalued.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
54 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Tangible and intangible assets continued
Intangible assets – useful economic lives
Amortisation is provided for intangible assets other than goodwill and certain other specific intangible assets so as to write off the cost 
or valuation of the assets over their useful lives, using a straight line method, on the following bases:
Development costs 5–10 years 
Patents and trademarks 5–10 years 
Software 3–5 years 
Customer relationships 5–10 years 
Brand names* 3.5–5 years
*  An amount of $211,000 was recognised for a brand name acquired in 2006 on the purchase of Coolersmart USA LLC and this is non-amortising as the business continues 
to trade under the acquired name. This brand name value is tested for impairment annually.
Internally generated intangible assets 
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development of new and enhanced water dispenser, water purification devices 
or related consumable items is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
 w an asset is created that can be identified (such as product designs and new processes); 
 w it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and 
 w the costs of developing this asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives, with a presumption that this is no more than 
ten years. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, the expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period 
in which it is incurred.
Purchased patents and trademarks
Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives where 
there is an expiry date.
Purchased customer lists and rental contracts (customer relations)
Customer lists and rental contracts are measured initially at the purchase cost attributed to them when the asset is bought. In the absence 
of an external market for the buying and selling of these intangible assets, the valuation is normally based on a discounted cash flow approach 
with assumptions made for customer attrition rates, growth, contributory asset charges, asset specific discount rates, useful economic life and 
an estimate of tax amortisation benefits arising from the recognition of these intangibles. For all significant acquisitions these valuations have 
been prepared by independent valuation firms.
Other purchased intangibles
On the acquisition of a legal entity or a trading business, the Group undertakes an evaluation of the business to identify the existence of any 
intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 (2008). The classes of intangible assets that are most commonly identified include brand names, 
non-compete agreements with key personnel and the existence of a skilled and knowledgeable workforce. With the exception of the workforce, 
which is allocated to goodwill, all other acquired intangibles are recognised under brand names, trademarks, customer relationships and patents 
(note 16). For all significant acquisitions these valuations have been prepared by independent valuation firms.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite 
useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of: (i) fair value less costs to sell; and (ii) value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless 
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that 
the revaluation balance is greater than the impairment loss. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill continued
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years for the asset (or cash generating unit). A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated using either 
the first-in-first-out method or, for fast moving items, the average cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less 
all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
All financial assets are normally recognised and de-recognised on a trade date basis where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under 
a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned and are initially measured 
at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit and loss, which are initially measured 
at fair value. On de-recognition, however, where a specific transaction is entered into with a counterparty that is judged to carry a high credit 
or liquidity risk, then management may determine that de-recognition of the financial asset shall be based on settlement date rather than trade 
date, with any realised gain or loss taken to the income statement on date of settlement.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at “fair value through profit and loss” (“FVTPL ”), “held-to-maturity” 
investments, “available-for-sale” (“ AFS”) financial assets and “loans and receivables”. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Classes of financial asset 
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:
 w it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; or
 w on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern 
of short-term profit-taking; or
 w it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
 w such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or
 w the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated 
on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping 
is provided internally on that basis; or
 w it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in the income statement. 
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included 
in the “other gains and losses” line item in the income statement. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 39. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
56 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments continued
Classes of financial asset continued
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as 
“loans and receivables”. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest 
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired 
where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the 
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For listed and unlisted equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost 
is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets, including finance lease receivables, objective evidence of impairment could include:
 w significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
 w default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
 w it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past 
experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well 
as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the differences between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, 
where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off 
against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes 
in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
De-recognition of financial assets
The Group de-recognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Compound instruments
The Group has issued no compound instruments (convertible bonds) requiring separate classification as financial liabilities and equity 
in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments continued
Financial guarantee contract liabilities
Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently measured 
at the higher of:
 w the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets; and
 w the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition 
policies set out above.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either “financial liabilities at FVTPL” or “other financial liabilities”.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if:
 w it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or
 w on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern 
of short-term profit-taking; or
 w it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
 w such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or
 w the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated 
on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy and information about the grouping 
is provided internally on that basis; or
 w it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in the income statement. 
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the 
“other gains and losses” line item in the income statement. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 39.
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised 
on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life 
of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
De-recognition of financial liabilities
The Group de-recognises financial liabilities when the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial instruments continued
Derivative financial instruments
The Group is able to enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, 
including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. Further details of derivative financial instruments 
are disclosed in note 39.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair 
value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and 
effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. 
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (fair value 
hedges), hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments (cash flow hedges), or hedges 
of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial 
liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than twelve 
months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics 
are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
An embedded derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hybrid instrument to which 
the embedded derivative relates is more than twelve months and is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives 
are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of interest rate risk as cash flow hedges. At the inception 
of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management 
objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the 
Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included 
in the “other gains and losses” line item. 
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the 
hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. However, when the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated 
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated 
in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group has not adopted hedge accounting for the foreign currency forward contracts purchased to hedge against short-term movements 
in cash flows of the underlying hedged item. The exposure has been short term and involves relatively few but highly predictable transactions. 
Whilst the exposure to foreign currency risk remains relatively low, the cost of implementing the required controls and administration processes 
to perform hedge accounting is judged to be uneconomic at present. Should these circumstances change; the Group will review the adoption 
of hedge accounting.
Notes 23 and 39 set out details of the fair values of any derivative instruments used for hedging purposes. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 59
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group 
will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet 
date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated 
to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is 
recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant 
products, at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation.
Share based incentives
Equity-settled share based incentives to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments 
at the grant date. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. Details regarding the determination of the fair value 
of equity-settled share based transactions are set out in note 37.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share based incentives is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate 
of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. The impact of the revision 
of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements.
Revenue recognition
A number of trading operations within the Group recognise revenue with regard to amounts chargeable to customers under service and maintenance 
contracts. The policy is to recognise such revenue in equal instalments over the duration of the contractual period. This is expected to approximate 
to the timing of the physical performance of the service activity on such contracts.
In making its judgement, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue from the provision of continuous services 
set out in IAS 18 Revenue. The Directors are satisfied that the significant risks and rewards are transferred and that recognition of the revenue 
in equal instalments over the duration of the contractual period is appropriate.
Leases – the Group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred 
in negotiating and arranging an operating lease have been insignificant and to date have been expensed as incurred.
Rental agreements run for a minimum period of twelve months and typically for three to five years. This is substantially less than the average 
useful economic life for a POU device. For this reason all existing rental agreements are not judged to transfer substantially all of the risks 
and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Consequently they are accounted for as operating leases. 
Where rental agreements are taken over following a trade purchase or similar transaction, the remaining useful economic life of any related 
equipment is evaluated, taking into consideration technological obsolescence and ongoing maintenance requirements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
60 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies continued
Valuing acquired intangible assets
Since most acquired intangibles are not traded on an open market the absence of a market price means that the valuations are normally based 
on a discounted cash flow approach. This relies on setting customer attrition rates, growth rates, asset specific discount rates, useful economic 
life assumptions and an estimate of tax amortisation benefits arising from the recognition of these intangibles. In most circumstances the 
valuations are prepared by independent valuation firms with knowledge of the market in which the Group operates.
Share based incentives
The fair value at the grant date of each PSP award is determined as either the market value of the underlying share at the grant date or 
by applying a statistical model if the award is dependent on market-based performance conditions. At each balance sheet date the Group 
revises its estimate of the effect of non-market based conditions. The impact of the revision is recognised in the income statement such that 
the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate with the corresponding adjustment to the PSP reserve within equity.
Further details regarding the share based payment plan are set out in note 37.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Recoverability of internally generated intangible asset
Annually the Directors reconsider the recoverability of all of its material internally generated intangible assets which are included in its closing 
balance sheet.
For those elements of development that are capitalised, management has assessed the progress of these projects, considering the estimated 
anticipated future economic benefit for product development, or likelihood of successfully bringing an asset, such as software purchased for 
internal use, to its full working condition.
Management considers that the carrying amount is the most appropriate presentation for development of this nature.
Impairment of goodwill
Management reviews the carrying value of its goodwill balances at least annually. Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires 
an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an entity 
to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. 
Further details are given in note 15.
Allowance for doubtful debts
Management undertakes a review of all new customers and a periodic review of existing customers to determine whether specific risks of 
default exist. Beyond identification of specific risks, management undertakes periodic reviews into the calculation of allowances for doubtful 
debts to ensure historic trends continue to provide a basis for determining a reliable estimate for doubtful debts. Counterparty risk is mitigated 
in respect of rental customers as the rentals are collected in advance. Indications of default can be identified early and recourse action taken 
to recover overdue rentals or repossess equipment provided under the rental agreement.
5. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Continuing operations
Direct revenue 25,945 16,004
Indirect revenue 48,259 45,994
Rental and service income 49,839 38,970
Total revenue 124,043 100,968
6. Segment reporting 
Information reported to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance 
is focused on the location of markets in which the Group operates. The Group’s reportable segments are set out below. The following is an analysis 
of the Group’s revenues and operating profit by reportable segment. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61
6. Segment reporting continued
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
International Trading 
External revenue 16,372 14,375
Inter-segment revenue 18,119 12,636
Total revenue 34,491 27,011
Segment operating profit 944 3,415
Scandinavia 
External revenue 33,838 31,786
Inter-segment revenue 206 563
Total revenue 34,044 32,349
Segment operating profit 4,501 3,361
France 
External revenue 7,911 7,342
Total revenue 7,911 7,342
Segment operating profit 678 481
Germany 
External revenue 15,253 11,934
Inter-segment revenue 68 25
Total revenue 15,321 11,959
Segment operating profit 2,564 2,024
USA
External revenue 29,633 24,768
Total revenue 29,633 24,768
Segment operating loss (1,912) (1,137)
UK 
External revenue 9,576 10,757
Inter-segment revenue 646 374
Total revenue 10,222 11,131
Segment operating profit 1,083 1,433
PRC 
External revenue 180 6
Inter-segment revenue 21,024 15,258
Total revenue 21,204 15,264
Segment operating loss (235) (115)
Australia 
External revenue 11,320 —
Total revenue 11,320 —
Segment operating profit 1,824 —
Segment result 
External revenue 124,083 100,968
Inter-segment revenue 40,063 28,856
Total revenue 164,146 129,824
Segment operating profit 9,447 9,462
Eliminations
External revenue (40) —
Elimination of inter-segment revenue (40,063) (28,856)
Eliminations from operating profit (818) (268)
Consolidated
External revenue 124,043 100,968
Aggregate segment operating profit net of eliminations 8,629 9,194
Central administration costs (3,202) (6,895)
Operating profit 5,427 2,299
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
62 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
6. Segment reporting continued
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 3. Inter-segment revenue 
is charged at prevailing market rates. Segment operating profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of the share of 
central administration costs including Directors’ salaries, investment revenue, finance costs and income tax expenses. This is the measure 
reported to the Group’s Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Central administration costs relate mainly to employment related expenses and other overheads incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries 
WIL and WLI (UK) Ltd, net of management charges to and from other subsidiaries within the Group as well as inter-company commission income. Also 
included within central administration costs is the charge of $1,709,000 relating to the share based payment plans for the year ended 31 December 2013 
(2012: $1,630,000) (see note 37). During the year the Group reviewed the central administration costs and allocated approximately $2,800,000 
of these costs to the International Trading operating segment. There was no equivalent allocation of central administration costs in 2012.
Segment net assets
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012* 
$’000
International Trading 6,979 5,904
Scandinavia 13,142 10,019
France 2,908 2,154
Germany 6,979 4,975
USA 8,171 9,928
UK 6,386 5,597
PRC 1,690 2,551
Australia 13,392 —
Total segment net assets 59,647 41,128
Eliminations (2,678) (2,054)
Central services 33,029 50,230
Consolidated net assets 89,998 89,304
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
For the purposes of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments the Group’s Chief Executive monitors 
the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment. All assets are allocated to reportable segments with the exception 
of investments in joint ventures, other financial assets (except for trade and other receivables) and tax assets. Goodwill has been allocated 
to reportable segments as described in note 15. 
Other segment information
Depreciation and amortisation Additions to non-current assets
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012* 
$’000
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
International Trading 433 127 1,191 1,004
Scandinavia 1,792 1,477 1,135 16,222
France 573 611 1,195 2,463
Germany 1,688 1,458 2,492 1,491
USA 3,344 2,557 3,856 13,646
UK 395 395 393 52
PRC 446 521 546 1,560
Australia 2,370 — 61,830 —
Eliminations (826) (606) (1,101) (834)
Add: Central services 430 217 343 364
Total 10,645 6,757 71,880 35,968
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63
6. Segment reporting continued
The Group is managed on the basis of segment performance, focused on the geographical location of markets. Management review the revenue 
and gross margin of the Consumer and Commercial Divisions. Accordingly, the following additional disclosure has been made with respect to the 
Consumer and Commercial Divisions.
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Commercial revenue
External revenue 122,754 100,461
Gross profit 78,543 61,188
Gross margin 64% 61%
Consumer revenue
External revenue 1,289 507
Gross profit 316 89 
Gross margin 25% 18%
Consolidated
External revenue 124,043 100,968
Gross profit 78,859 61,277
Gross margin 64% 61%
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Information about major customers
No single customer accounted for more than 10 per cent of reported revenue in 2013 and no single major customer accounted for more than 10 per cent 
of the total balance of trade receivables (net of allowances for doubtful debts) on 31 December 2013. At 31 December 2012 no single major customer 
accounted for more 10 per cent of reported revenue and no single customer accounted for more than 10 per cent of the total balance.
7. Auditor’s fees
The analysis of the auditor’s fees is as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Audit services and audit related services
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 217 186
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 384 340
Total audit fees 601 526
Other services
Other taxation services 18 112
Other non-audit services 59 3
Total non-audit services 77 115
Total 678 641
Details of the Group’s approach to the use of the Group’s auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Corporate Governance Report. 
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
64 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
8. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Net foreign exchange gains (1,048) (616)
Research and development costs 795 1,700
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 17) 6,102 4,385
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 253 57
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (note 16) 3,368 1,788
Amortisation of other intangibles (note 16) 1,175 584
Operating lease rental expense (note 36) 4,618 4,288
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 24,914 22,952
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 358 496
Reversal of write downs of inventories recognised as a credit (80) (111)
Staff costs:
– corporate reorganisation 44 774
– other 42,773 33,094
Costs relating to capital reorganisation — 56
Acquisition and integration related costs 1,710 2,308
Impairment losses recognised on trade receivables (note 21) 1,076 1,171
Reversal of impairment losses recognised on trade receivables (note 21) (17) (177)
Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments (notes 11, 39) 111 (36)
Share based payments:
– Performance share plan (“PSP”) (note 37) 1,709 1,630
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Adjusted profitability measures
The Directors use adjusted profitability measures to judge the profitability of the Group in order to provide them with a consistent basis 
of comparison of the Group’s results on a year-on-year basis. During the years under review, these “Adjusted Measures” include: adjusted 
operating profit; adjusted EBITDA; and adjusted profit for the year.
The following items, including their tax effect where applicable, have been taken into account when calculating adjusted items:
 w Share based incentives expense
 •  Share based payment expense recognised in connection with the PSP (note 37).
 w Capital reorganisation related costs
 •  Costs associated with the capital reorganisation of WIL. 
 w Corporate reorganisation costs
 •  Costs associated with termination of employment resulting from:
  •  relocation and/or redundancy of role; and
  •  termination payments to Executive Directors of the Group.
 w Acquisition and integration related costs 
 •  Costs associated with acquisitions, including transaction costs and fair value adjustments on contingent consideration.
 •  Costs associated with the integration of companies, including restructuring undertaken as a result of the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
 w Amortisation of acquired intangibles
 •  Amortisation charge for the year relating to intangibles acquired with purchased subsidiaries:
  •  This item has been identified as an adjusting item for the first time in these Financial Statements. To ensure a consistent basis 
of comparison, prior year figures have been updated where appropriate. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65
8. Profit for the year continued
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Operating profit 5,427 2,299
Add depreciation and amortisation 10,645 6,757
EBITDA 16,072 9,056
Adjusting items:
– share based incentives expense 1,709 1,630
– capital reorganisation related costs — 56
– corporate reorganisation costs 44 774
– acquisition and integration related costs 1,710 2,308
– amortisation of acquired intangibles 3,368 1,788
Total adjusting items 6,831 6,556
Adjusted operating profit 12,258 8,855
Adjusted EBITDA 19,535 13,824
Profit for the year 1,666 1,236
Total adjusting items and related finance costs 6,871 6,671
Tax effect of adjusting items (933) (507)
Adjusted profit for the year 7,604 7,400
Less: non-controlling interest share of adjusted profit (81) (319)
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 7,523 7,081
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
9. Other gains and losses
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Loss on disposal of non-current assets (253) (57)
Reduction/(increase) in contingent consideration for acquired businesses (note 28) 41 (375)
Gains on foreign exchange movements 1,048 616
Share of results of joint ventures (65) —
Other gains 97 162
868 346
No other gains or losses have been recognised in respect of loans or on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
10. Finance income
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Bank deposit interest 95 134
Other finance income 44 43
139 177
11. Finance costs
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 1,926 370
Other financial expenses 75 155
Total interest expense 2,001 525
Unwinding of discount effect on liabilities 40 115
Change in fair value of derivative option contract — 126
Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 64 —
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss – net change in fair value:
– designated on initial recognition 111 (36)
2,216 730
Other financial expenses include bank charges arising on transactions executed and completed in the corresponding period. The unwinding of 
discount effect on liabilities in both years is in respect of contingent consideration owing on acquisitions. The loss on derivatives in a designated 
fair value hedge accounting relationship relates to the interest charge in the period in relation to interest rate swaps designated as cash flow 
hedges on the Group’s loan facilities, details of which are disclosed in note 23.
12. Tax
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Current tax expense:
Current year 1,629 1,490
Adjustments in respect of prior years 122 200
1,751 1,690
Deferred tax (note 24):
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,137 (396)
Change in tax rate on deferred tax asset/liability brought forward (97) (109)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax asset (1,218) (654)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 111 (21)
Total deferred tax credit (67) (1,180)
Total tax expense 1,684 510
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Corporation tax is calculated at 12.5 per cent (2012: 12.5 per cent) of the estimated taxable profit for the year in the income statement for the 
Group, which at 31 December 2013 was resident for tax purposes in the Republic of Ireland (“ROI”) (2012: ROI).
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 67
12. Tax continued
The tax charge for each year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Profit before tax on continuing operations 3,350 1,746
Tax at the ROI corporation tax rate of 12.5 per cent (2012: 12.5 per cent) 419 218
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 1,341 1,097
Effect of tax rates in different jurisdictions 327 601
Tax effect of non-taxable income (15) (26)
Movement in deferred tax not recognised (238) (59)
Tax effect of previously unrecognised tax losses utilised (115) (402)
Tax effect of unused tax losses and tax off sets not recognised as deferred tax assets 1,047 (335)
Effect of previously unrecognised and unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences now recognised 
as deferred tax assets (1,218) (654)
Effect of change in tax rate on deferred tax asset/liability brought forward (97) (109)
Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the tax of prior years – current tax 122 200
Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the tax of prior years – deferred tax 111 (21)
Total tax expense for the year 1,684 510
13. Dividends
No dividends have been declared or paid during the two years covered in the Financial Statements.
14. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Earnings
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 1,601 972
Adjusted profit attributable to the owners of the Company 7,523 7,081
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Year ended 31 December
2013
Number
2012*
Number
Weighted average number of shares in issue 77,649,417 77,604,207
Weighted average number of shares held by employee share trust (1,364,253) (1,660,000)
Shares used to calculate basic earnings per share 76,285,164 75,944,207
Dilution due to share based incentive plans 929,683 1,356,781
Shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 77,214,847 77,300,988
Basic earnings per share (cents) 2.10 1.28
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 2.07 1.26
Basic adjusted earnings per share (cents) 9.86 9.32
Diluted adjusted earnings per share (cents) 9.74 9.16
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the year. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
68 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
15. Goodwill
$’000
At 1 January 2012 11,199
Acquisitions (note 34) 12,628
Exchange differences 1,031
At 1 January 2013 24,858
Acquisitions (note 34) 32,077
Exchange differences (1,776)
At 31 December 2013 55,159
No impairment losses have been required on goodwill amounts recognised by the Group to date. Therefore the carrying amount at 31 December 2013 
is $55,159,000 (31 December 2012: $24,858,000).
The 2013 acquisitions balance of $32,077,000 comprises $31,095,000 of goodwill acquired in business combinations occurring within 2013 
and $982,000 relating to a measurement period adjustment in relation to TaylorMade Water Systems Inc, acquired by the Group in August 2012 
(see note 34).
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Segment and CGU – USA 8,635 7,696
Segment – Scandinavia
CGU – Sweden 4,344 4,606
CGU – Norway 5,241 5,744
CGU – Denmark 514 494
Segment and CGU – Australia 29,659 —
Segment and CGU – UK 4,862 4,571
Segment and CGU – France 1,368 1,313
Segment and CGU – Germany 102 —
Group central services 434 434
Total 55,159 24,858
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The Group central 
services segment carries any goodwill recognised on historic acquisitions that pre-date March 2006 (from which date the Group has elected 
to adopt IFRS 3 (2008) Business Combinations), where identifying the value of goodwill in the currency to which the acquisition relates is not 
practicable. Consequently this residual goodwill is recognised in US Dollars and tested at a Group level after separating the relevant amounts 
used to test the goodwill recognised in the other segments and CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined using “value in use” calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are 
those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to operating profit margins. These assumptions are reviewed and revised 
annually in light of current economic conditions and the future outlook for each CGU. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates 
that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each CGU. This has been set at eleven per cent 
(2012: twelve per cent) with some adjustments made to specific CGU discount rates including those required to reflect specific risks associated 
with the CGU’s estimated cash flows relative to those of the Group.
The growth rates used in the initial five year term are based on Board approved forecasts for twelve months and management’s assessment of the cash 
flow forecasts over the medium term. These take into account the existing customer base and revenue commitments from it, anticipated additional 
sales to existing and new customers, planned expansion of the product offerings and specific market trends that are currently seen or expected in 
the future. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. No growth rate 
assumption has been applied to estimated cash flows after this initial five year period (2012: lower of two per cent and specific market estimate).
The value of goodwill recognised in the accounts has been compared with the derived value in use. Throughout the current year and prior year 
the goodwill carrying value has been below its value in use. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test results for 
each CGU, determining whether the carrying amount of goodwill in relation to any CGU would be in excess of its value in use should a reduction 
in the net present value of discounted cash flows reduce by ten per cent and 20 per cent respectively occur relative to the Group’s base 
assumptions. No impairments were noted throughout the Group upon the application of these sensitivities with the exception of the USA CGU, 
where it was noted that a reduction of approximately 17 per cent would lead to an impairment being indicated, and a 20 per cent reduction would 
lead to a required impairment of $757,000.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 69
16. Other intangible assets 
Development 
costs 
$000
Brand names, 
trademarks 
and patents
$’000
Software 
$’000
Acquired 
customer
relationships
$’000
Acquired
 brand names, 
trademarks 
and patents
$’000
Total
$’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 1,383 491 2,233 8,172 896 13,175
Additions 925 265 245 — — 1,435
Acquisitions — — — 11,412 716 12,128
Exchange differences — 31 14 341 3 389
At 1 January 2013 2,308 787 2,492 19,925 1,615 27,127
Additions 976 187 954 — — 2,117
Acquisitions (note 34) — — 126 17,617 302 18,045
Exchange differences 1 — 53 (885) (24) (855)
At 31 December 2013 3,285 974 3,625 36,657 1,893 46,434
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2012 (617) (293) (731) (2,620) (113) (4,374)
Charge for the year (155) (91) (338) (1,614) (174) (2,372)
Exchange differences (26) (3) (10) (43) (3) (85)
At 1 January 2013 (798) (387) (1,079) (4,277) (290) (6,831)
Charge for the year (586) (124) (465) (3,034) (334) (4,543)
Exchange differences (1) — (24) 36 (6) 5
At 31 December 2013 (1,385) (511) (1,568) (7,275) (630) (11,369)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2013 1,900 463 2,057 29,382 1,263 35,065
At 31 December 2012 1,510 400 1,413 15,648 1,325 20,296
The Group has elected to disclose amounts in relation to acquired intangibles separately from those internally generated by the Group for the 
year ended 31 December 2013. Corresponding figures for 2012 have been restated to present the comparative amounts accordingly. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
70 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
17. Property, plant and equipment
Property
$’000
Point-of-use
dispenser*
$’000
Plant and
machinery
$’000
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
$’000
Motor 
vehicles
$’000
Total*
$’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 594 16,053 3,882 2,558 952 24,039
Additions 4 3,097 1,687 345 140 5,273
Acquisitions — 3,699 633 129 43 4,504
Disposals — (471) (14) (71) (77) (633)
Exchange differences 27 582 118 147 12 886
At 1 January 2013 625 22,960 6,306 3,108 1,070 34,069
Additions — 5,946 589 659 152 7,346
Acquisitions (note 34) — 11,060 120 220 895 12,295
Disposals (632) (1,006) (2,244) (501) (201) (4,584)
Exchange differences 7 (501) 72 (47) (30) (499)
At 31 December 2013 — 38,459 4,843 3,439 1,886 48,627
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 (30) (10,367) (2,075) (1,924) (553) (14,949)
Charge for the year (42) (3,203) (633) (309) (198) (4,385)
Eliminated on disposal — 374 14 67 77 532
Exchange differences (2) (358) (23) (148) (24) (555)
At 1 January 2013 (74) (13,554) (2,717) (2,314) (698) (19,357)
Charge for the year (17) (4,703) (558) (445) (379) (6,102)
Eliminated on disposal 86 839 1,581 486 87 3,079
Exchange differences 5 88 (19) 23 5 102
At 31 December 2013 — (17,330) (1,713) (2,250) (985) (22,278)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2013 — 21,129 3,130 1,189 901 26,349
At 31 December 2012 551 9,406 3,589 794 372 14,712
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
No freehold property was held by the Group as at 31 December 2013 (2012: $0.6 million). The property disposed of during the year had been 
secured by mortgage. Additionally the Group’s obligations under finance leases (see note 25) are secured by the lessors’ title to the leased 
assets, which at 31 December 2013 had a carrying amount of $0.1 million (2012: $0.1 million). Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 71
18. Investment in joint venture
Details of the Group’s joint venture are as follows:
Proportion of ownership interest
Company name Country of registration or incorporation Principal activity
2013
%
2012
%
Aquaignis India Manufacture and distribution 50 50
The above joint venture was accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated Financial Statements as set out in the Group’s accounting 
policies in note 3. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement, the Company has the right to cast 50% of the votes at shareholder meetings of 
Aquaignis Private Ltd. 
The carrying value of the investment is reconciled below:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Balance as at 1 January — —
Amounts reclassified from prepayments 324 —
Additional investment in the year 566 —
Share of post-tax losses of joint ventures (65) —
Balance at 31 December 825 —
Summarised financial information in respect of the joint venture is set out below, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Current assets 190 —
Non-current assets 229 —
Current liabilities (8) —
Net assets attributable to the owners of the Company 411 —
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Expenses (65) —
Loss attributable to the owners of the Company (65) —
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the joint venture recognised within the 
consolidated Financial Statements:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Net assets of joint venture attributable to the owners of the Company 411 —
Set-up costs 360 —
Effect of movements in exchange rates 54 —
Carrying value of the Group’s interest in the joint venture as at 31 December 825 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
72 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
19. Subsidiaries
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings for the period are listed below, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion 
of ownership interest:
 Ownership interest
Company name
Country of registration 
or incorporation Principal activity Class of shares
2013
%
2012
%
Aqua Cure Limited England and Wales Distribution Ordinary 94 70
Aqua Cure (Scotland) Limited 
(formerly Water Filters Limited)*
Scotland Distribution and service Ordinary 100 —
Cool Clear Water Group Limited* Australia Distribution and service Ordinary 100 —
CoolerSmart USA LLC* United States of America Distribution and service Preferred/
Ordinary
100 100
Escowa AB Sweden Distribution and service Ordinary 100 100
Qingdao Waterlogic Manufacturing 
Co. Limited*
People’s Republic of China Manufacturer Ordinary 100 100
TaylorMade Water Systems Inc* United States of America Distribution and service Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic Australia Pty Limited* Australia Holding company Ordinary 100 —
Waterlogic Commercial Products LLC 
(formerly Innowave USA LLC)*
United States of America Distribution Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic France SAS France Distribution and service Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic GmbH Germany Distribution, service 
and holding company
Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic Holding AB (formerly 
Aqua Service Holding AB)*
Sweden Holding company Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic International Limited Bahamas Holding company Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic Norge AS Norway Distribution and service Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic Sverige AB (formerly 
Aqua Service Sverige AB)*
Sweden Distribution and service Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic USA Finance Inc* United States of America Finance Ordinary 100 100
Waterlogic USA Inc* United States of America Holding and management 
service company
Ordinary 100 100
WLI Trading Limited Ireland Distribution Ordinary 100 100
WLI (UK) Limited England and Wales Service company Ordinary 100 100
* Denotes shares held through a subsidiary company.
20. Inventories
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Point-of-use machines and spares 16,730 11,486
Consumables 1,425 1,875
18,155 13,361
At 31 December 2013 inventories with a carrying amount of $nil (2012: $6,563,000) have been pledged as security for certain of the Group’s 
bank loans, overdrafts and facilities.
21. Trade and other receivables
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Amounts due from customers 23,262 21,202
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,039) (1,538)
22,223 19,664
Other debtors and prepayments 2,760 3,648
24,983 23,312 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 73
21. Trade and other receivables continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are valued at amortised cost.
The average credit period offered on sales of goods during 2013 was 24 days (2012: 24 days). This reflects variations in credit terms offered 
by entities operating in different countries. 
Interest or fixed fee penalties for late payment are charged by some Group entities at rates applicable in the corresponding countries. Some 
jurisdictions that operate a legally enforceable late payment penalty where applicable. The interest is typically charged monthly and ranges 
between 0.4 and 1.5 per cent per month (2012: 0.13 and 1.5 per cent per month) on the outstanding balance. In some countries a fixed fee 
may be charged and this ranges between $7 and $53 (2012: between $7 and $14).
Allowances for doubtful debts are recognised against trade receivables based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference 
to past default experience. Specific counterparty risk is also considered where an analysis of the counterparty’s current financial position indicates 
a change in credit risk.
Trade receivables include amounts which are past due at the year end but against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful 
receivables in full. There has been a significant improvement in credit quality and the amounts (which include interest accrued on overdue 
receivable balances) are still considered recoverable. The Group retains title to all equipment supplied under rental agreements. 
Trade receivables net of allowance for doubtful debts
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Gross value of unimpaired receivables 22,140 19,597
Gross value of impaired receivables 1,122 1,605
Allowance for doubtful debts (1,039) (1,538)
22,223 19,664
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Ageing of receivables
2013 2012
Unimpaired
$’000
Impaired 
$’000
Total
$’000
Unimpaired
$’000
Impaired
$’000
Total
$’000
Not overdue 10,755 10 10,765 9,982 — 9,982
Overdue between 0 to 30 days 6,611 21 6,632 3,826 16 3,842
Overdue between 31 to 60 days 2,024 40 2,064 2,063 23 2,086
Overdue between 61 to 90 days 864 59 923 1,039 74 1,113
Overdue more than 90 days 1,886 992 2,878 2,687 1,492 4,179
22,140 1,122 23,262 19,597 1,605 21,202
The average age of unimpaired trade receivables is 33 days (2012: 54 days) and for impaired receivables is 273 days (2012: 317 days).
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Balance at the beginning of the period (1,538) (1,249)
Impairment losses recognised (1,076) (1,171)
Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 1,547 1,105
Amounts recovered during the year 17 177
Provisions existing in acquired subsidiaries (2) (375)
Other movements — (7)
Foreign exchange translation gains and losses 13 (18)
Balance at the end of the period (1,039) (1,538)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from 
the date credit was initially granted up to the relevant year end. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being 
large and diverse in terms of industry sector.
The Group generally retains a security interest in equipment as collateral for the amounts due and is contractually entitled to recover equipment 
supplied under rental agreements in the event of default by rental customers. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
74 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
22. Borrowings
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Unsecured borrowing at amortised cost
Bank loans — 899 
— 899
Secured borrowing at amortised cost
Bank overdrafts — 344
Bank loans (net of unamortised finance fees) 47,460 4,196
Securitised advances 115 199
Obligations under finance leases (note 25) 56 86
47,631 4,825
47,631 5,724
Amounts due for settlement within twelve months
Bank borrowings 3,558 2,771
Securitised advances 73 84
Obligations under finance leases 38 65
3,669 2,920
Amounts due for settlement after twelve months
Bank borrowings 43,902 2,668
Securitised advances 42 115
Obligations under finance leases 18 21
43,962 2,804
47,631 5,724
Securitised advances
The unamortised value of the securitised advances received from finance companies is recognised within borrowings. The interest charged 
by the finance companies ranges from 8.9 per cent to 18.9 per cent (2012: 8.9 per cent to 18.9 per cent) and reflects the discount in the cash 
advance received compared to the future rental payments assigned to the finance company. This interest charge is recognised in the income 
statement over the remaining life of the rental agreements. The Group has entered into both recourse and non-recourse arrangements with 
finance companies.
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
31 December 2013
US 
Dollars
$’000
Australian 
Dollars
$’000
Norwegian 
Kroner
$000
Euros
$’000
Other
$’000
Total
$’000
Bank loans (net of unamortised finance fees) (445) 38,544 7,710 — 1,651 47,460
Securitised advances 115 — — — — 115
Obligations under finance leases (note 25) 22 — — — 34 56
(308) 38,544 7,710 — 1,685 47,631
31 December 2012
US 
Dollars
$’000
Australian 
Dollars
$’000
Norwegian 
Kroner
$000
Euros
$’000
Other
$’000
Total
$’000
Bank overdrafts — — — — 344 344
Bank loans 1,746 — — 952 2,397 5,095
Securitised advances 199 — — — — 199
Obligations under finance leases (note 25) 86 — — — — 86
2,031 — — 952 2,741 5,724 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 75
22. Borrowings continued
The other principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
Bank overdrafts were repayable on demand. At 31 December 2013 overdrafts of $nil (2012: $344,000) have been secured by a charge over the 
Group’s current assets (including receivables and inventories). The effective interest rates on bank overdrafts ranged between 2.5 per cent and 
4.0 per cent (2012: 2.5 per cent and 4.0 per cent) per annum. The rates charged were determined based on a mixture of fixed rates and a per 
cent over prime rate applicable in the related country. Fees charged on facilities are assessed on an annual basis with the majority of fees being 
paid on a quarterly or calendar year basis. Any fees are included in the determination of the effective interest rate and are charged to the income 
statement over the life of the facility, except where management judge that the facility is unlikely to be used at which time the unamortised fees 
are immediately expensed through the income statement.
The Group has the following principal bank loans:
Maturity date Repayable Rate
Carrying value 
31 December 
2013
$’000
Facility A (a) 13 June 2018 By instalments NIBOR + 2.75% 8,019
(b) 13 June 2018 By instalments BBSW + 2.75% 14,019
Facility B (c) 13 June 2018 In full on maturity BBSW + 2.75% 25,957
(d) 13 June 2018 In full on maturity LIBOR + 2.75% 1,649
49,644
Other loans 51
Unamortised finance fees (2,235)
47,460
(a)  A Norwegian Kroner denominated term loan was taken out by Waterlogic Norge AS on 19 June 2013 and is repayable in instalments every 
six months, with the first of these having been made on 31 December 2013. The Group hedges this loan for interest rate risk using an interest 
rate swap, exchanging fixed rate interest for variable rate interest. The outstanding balance is adjusted for fair value movements in the 
hedged risk, being movements in the three months Norwegian Interbank Offer Rate (“NIBOR”).
(b)  An Australian Dollar-denominated term loan was taken out by Waterlogic Australia Pty Limited on 19 June 2013 and is repayable in instalments 
every six months, with the first of these having been made on 31 December 2013. The Group hedges the loan for interest rate risk using 
an interest rate swap, exchanging fixed rate interest for variable rate interest. The outstanding balance is adjusted for fair value movements 
in the hedged risk, being movements in the three months Bank Bill Swap Bid Rate (“BBSW”).
(c)  An Australian Dollar revolving credit facility loan was taken out by Waterlogic Australia Pty Limited on 19 June 2013. This loan is repayable 
at the behest of the Group at any point up until 13 June 2018. There is no current intention to repay this loan within the next twelve months and 
as such it has been classified as a non-current liability. The Group has purchased interest rate caps in order to mitigate interest rate risk in relation 
to a portion of this loan. The caps have not been designated as effective hedges in the period, and as such are recognised separately as financial 
assets carried at fair value through profit and loss. See note 39 for further details.
(d)  A Pounds Sterling denominated loan was taken out by WLI (UK) Limited on 19 June 2013. This loan is repayable at the behest of the Group 
at any point up until 13 June 2018. There is no current intention to repay this loan within the next twelve months and as such it has been 
classified as a non-current liability.
Unamortised finance fees relate to amounts capitalised that were payable to professional advisers and lenders in relation to the loan facilities 
taken out during the year. The costs have been capitalised within those entities to whom the loans accrue, with fees attributed to undrawn 
facilities being held by the Group parent company. These fees are being amortised on a straight line basis throughout the loan period.
The bank loans are guaranteed by various entities within the Group, including the ultimate parent company, Waterlogic Plc. The bank loans 
are subject to covenants relating to Group performance measures, namely cash flow cover, interest cover and leveraging.
Finance lease liabilities are secured by the assets leased. The lease agreements are on fixed interest rate terms with repayment periods 
not exceeding five years. Further details are shown in note 25. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
22. Borrowings continued
The weighted average effective interest rates paid during the year:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Bank overdrafts 4.05 5.93
Bank loans 5.39 3.66
The value of undrawn overdraft facilities by currency at each year end is as follows:
Others
$’000
Euros
$’000
US Dollars
$’000
Total
$’000
31 December 2013 — — — —
31 December 2012 2,250 1,983 4,482 8,715
There have been no breaches of loan agreements during the periods covered by the Financial Statements.
23. Derivative financial instruments
 Current Non-current
2013 2012 2013 2012
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments 
carried at fair value:
– interest rate swaps — — (187) —
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss (“FVTPL ”):
– interest rate swaps — (96) — —
– interest rate cap — — 187 —
— (96) — —
No foreign currency forward contracts were entered into in either 2013 or 2012.
In 2011, the Group entered into an interest rate swap contract for a loan used to acquire Aqua Cure Limited. The acquired subsidiary also held 
an interest rate swap contract. The two contracts had a combined aggregate notional principal amount of $1,792,605 (2012: $2,163,985) and an 
average fixed interest rate payable of 4.4 per cent (2012: 4.4 per cent). The purpose of the hedge was to convert the variable interest borrowing 
into fixed interest borrowing. Both swaps were settled during the year, on 10 June 2013 and 31 May 2013 respectively. The change in fair value 
of these hedges during the year resulted in a credit to the income statement of $23,000.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap agreements in relation to the term loan taken out primarily in order to acquire Cool Clear 
Water Group Ltd. The contracts have a combined aggregate notional principal amount of $22,034,000 (US equivalent) and an average fixed rate 
interest payable of 3.2%, net of margin. The purpose of the hedges was to convert the variable interest borrowing into fixed interest borrowing. 
The swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate cap arrangements in relation to part of the Revolving Credit Facility. The interest rate caps are set at 
an interest rate of 4.72%, net of margin, and have a notional principal amount of $15,530,000 (US$ equivalent). A premium of $322,000 was paid 
for the caps in September 2013, and the resultant assets have been designated as financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in note 39. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 77
24. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities) and assets recognised by the Group:
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
$’000
Intangibles 
recognised 
on 
acquisition
$’000
Other 
temporary
differences*
$’000
Unrelieved 
tax 
losses
$’000
Total*
$’000
At 1 January 2012 32 (536) 489 278 263
Credit to profit and loss 44 369 787 (20) 1,180
Foreign exchange losses — (107) 13 20 (74)
Acquisition of subsidiaries — (2,103) — 557 (1,546)
At 1 January 2013 76 (2,377) 1,289 835 (177)
Credit to profit and loss (348) 650 (215) (20) 67
Credit to other comprehensive income — — 52 — 52
Foreign exchange gains (11) 291 45 (32) 293
Acquisition of subsidiaries — (5,312) 638 — (4,674)
At 31 December 2013 (283) (6,748) 1,809 783 (4,439)
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are off set where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after off set) for financial reporting purposes:
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Analysed as:
Deferred tax liabilities (5,610) (1,520)
Deferred tax assets 1,171 1,343
Deferred tax liability – net (4,439) (177)
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
In addition to the above, at 31 December 2013 the Group had unrecognised deferred tax assets arising in relation to unused tax losses 
of $3,519,000 (2012: $3,044,0000) and other timing differences of $1,279,000 (2012: $3,078,000) available for off set against future profits. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits 
available in the relevant jurisdictions in the near future.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timings of the reversal 
of these temporary differences.
25. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease payments
Present value of  
minimum lease payments
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Minimum lease payments
Within one year 41 68 38 65
In the second to fifth years inclusive 19 23 18 21
60 91
56 86
Less: future finance charges (4) (5)
Present value of lease obligations 56 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
78 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
25. Obligations under finance leases continued
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Analysed as:
Amounts due for settlement within twelve months (shown under current liabilities) 38 65
Amounts due for settlement after twelve months 18 21
56 86
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its equipment under finance leases. The average remaining lease term at 31 December 2013 was 0.9 years 
(2012: 0.7 years). For the year ended 31 December 2013, the average effective interest rate was 4.3 per cent (2012: 5.8 per cent). Interest rates are 
fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations is approximately equal to their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets disclosed in note 17.
26. Trade and other payables
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Trade creditors 9,904 6,295
Accruals 5,025 4,172
Other creditors 9,932 8,940
24,861 19,407
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 90 days (2012: 65 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the first 60 days from the date 
of the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various interest rates. The Group policy is to ensure that payables 
are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms and to avoid incurring penalties and/or interest on late payments. Other creditors include sales taxes, 
property taxes, social security, employment taxes due to local tax authorities and cash rebates due to customers.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
27. Provisions
Warranty
provision
$’000
Statutory
retirement
scheme
$’000
Total
$’000
At 1 January 2012 92 69 161
Change in provision (12) 10 (2)
Exchange difference 1 2 3
At 31 December 2012 81 81 162
Change in provision 263 27 290
Exchange difference 1 4 5
At 31 December 2013 345 112 457
Current 345 — 345
Non-current — 112 112
At 31 December 2013 345 112 457
The provision for warranty claims represents the Directors’ best estimate for the future outflow of economic benefits required to meet Group 
obligations for warranty claims. These estimates also reflect local legislative regulations on the sale of goods. The warranty liability normally 
extends up to twelve months and the Directors believe the carrying values shown above approximate their fair value. The claim provision 
has been based on historical warranty trends, which may vary due to the use of new materials, changes in manufacturing processes or 
other developments that affect product quality.
Employees of the Group’s subsidiary in France are entitled to a state-managed retirement benefit scheme operated by the government. The 
subsidiary is required to provide a specified percentage of payroll costs which becomes payable where an employee reaches state retirement 
age if, and only if, the employee is in the employ of Waterlogic France at the qualifying date. The only obligation on the subsidiary, with respect 
to the retirement benefit scheme, is to make the specified contributions at that time. For this reason a provision is calculated at each year end 
based on the number of employed staff, their age and years of service and a probability that they will be employed by the subsidiary at the 
qualifying date. The qualifying payments are payable to the state by the subsidiary at the level specified under the terms of the scheme. 
The terms include an escalating entitlement dependent on age and years of service completed.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 79
28. Deferred and contingent consideration
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
InnoTech (USA – acquired in 2011) — 266
Aqua Cure (UK – acquired in 2011) 398 2,169
Prisme S.A.R.L. (France – acquired in 2012) — 152
TaylorMade Water Systems Inc (USA – acquired in 2012) 967 1,906
AquaPerfect LLC (USA – acquired in 2012) — 350
Water Filters Limited (UK – acquired in 2013) 49 —
Eauvell (Germany – acquired in 2013) 40 —
Total 1,454 4,843
Current 40 3,572
Non-current 1,414 1,271
Total 1,454 4,843
During 2013 the Group paid $4,350,000 (2012: $12,000) in deferred consideration. 
At 31 December 2013 the Group had additional liabilities for contingent consideration to the vendors of Water Filters Limited and Eauvell. As 
at the year end the Group has re-evaluated the amounts recorded for the contingent consideration for both InnoTech and Aqua Cure, resulting 
in a $54,000 charge in relation to the former and a $95,000 release to profit and loss in relation to the latter. Exchange gains of $94,000 
(2012: losses of $77,000) were recognised in relation to deferred and contingent consideration during the period. 
In 2012 the Group re-evaluated the amounts recorded for the contingent consideration due for both InnoTech and Aqua Cure, resulting 
in charges of $50,000 and $325,000 respectively.
The Group also re-evaluated the amount recorded for contingent consideration recognised in relation to TaylorMade Water Systems Inc, 
with a resultant increase to goodwill of $963,000 as a measurement period adjustment in relation to the acquisition of that entity.
29. Stated capital
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Issued and fully paid
Stated capital — —
2013
Number
2012
Number
Ordinary Shares in issue at nil par value 77,685,136 77,604,157
Number
Share capital in issue at 1 January 2012 77,604,157
Movement in year —
Share capital in issue at 1 January 2013 77,604,157
Exercise of awards 80,979
Share capital in issue at 31 December 2013 77,685,136
80,979 shares were issued in the period as a result of the exercise of vested awards held by employees in relation to the Group’s Performance 
Share Plan (‘PSP’) (2012: nil). A further 510,197 shares were issued in the period as a result of vested awards being exercised; however these were 
issued from the Waterlogic Employee Share Trust (see overleaf) and as such did not impact upon the total number of shares in issue. Awards 
were exercised at an average price of $nil per award.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares, which carry no right to fixed income. There is no limit on the number of shares that the Company 
can issue. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
29. Stated capital continued
The Waterlogic Employee Share Trust
The Waterlogic Employee Share Trust (“the Trust”) is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of the Group’s employees. It has an 
independent, professional trustee, EFG Trust Company Limited. The Trust has been financed by advances from the Group prior to its Admission 
to AIM. The shares held by the Trust rank pari passu with all the other shares in issue. The costs of administering the Trust are charged to the 
income statement as incurred.
At 31 December 2013 the Trust held 1,149,803 Ordinary Shares in the Company (31 December 2012: 1,660,000). The Trust had subscribed for the 
WIL shares at par in 2005 and therefore had a cost of $166.
Under the terms of the PSP (note 37) two employees exercised awards to which the Waterlogic Employee Share Trust issued 510,197 Ordinary 
shares during the year (2012: nil).
30. Additional paid in capital
$’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 60,261
Fair value of put and call option over non-controlling interest acquired in the year 128
Balance at 1 January 2013 60,389
Purchase of non-controlling interest acquired in the year 235
Exercise of PSP awards 1,485
Balance at 31 December 2013 62,109
Additional paid in capital represents the equity capital of the Company. See note 37 for details of PSP awards in the period.
31. Hedging and translation reserves
 Hedging reserve Translation reserve
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Balance at 1 January — — 298 (578)
Exchange differences on translating the net assets of foreign operations — — (2,021) 876
Loss recognised on cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps (net of tax) (135) — — —
Balance at 31 December (135) — (1,723) 298
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges. 
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit and loss only when the hedged transaction impacts 
the profit and loss, or is included as a basis adjustment to the non-financial hedged item, consistent with the applicable accounting policy.
Translation reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, which relate to subsidiaries only, from their 
functional currency into the parent’s functional currency, being US Dollars, are recognised directly in the translation reserve. 
No gains or losses were transferred from equity into profit and loss during the period.
32. Retained earnings
$’000*
Balance at 1 January 2011 21,545
Prior period adjustment (1,105)
Net profit for the year 2,488
Balance at 1 January 2012 22,928
Net profit for the year 972
Balance at 1 January 2013 23,900
Net profit for the year 1,601
Balance at 31 December 2013 25,501
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 81
33. Non-controlling interests
$’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 27
Share of profit for the year 264
Share of other comprehensive income 6
Balance at 1 January 2013 297
Share of profit for the year 65
Share of other comprehensive income (13)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (235)
Balance at 31 December 2013 114
On 7 March 2013 the Group acquired a further 23.85 per cent holding in Aqua Cure Limited to bring its total holding in the company to 93.85 per cent.
34. Acquisitions 
Water Filters Limited (Aqua Cure Scotland)
On 27 February 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Water Filters Limited (“WFL”) for total consideration of $0.5 million. WFL is a key 
distributor of Aqua Cure Limited’s products to the Scottish market and the acquisition represents an opportunity for Waterlogic to increase both 
its market share and geographic reach in the UK market.
Fair value
$’000
Net assets acquired:
– trade receivables 44
– other monetary assets 224
– monetary liabilities assumed (51)
– intangible assets recognised 132
– deferred tax liability (28)
Total net assets acquired 321
Goodwill recognised 184
505
Satisfied by:
– cash consideration 463
– retention amount 46
– working capital adjustment (4)
505
Net cash flow on acquisition:
– cash consideration 459
– less cash acquired (165)
294
Intangible assets of $132,000 have been recognised comprising non-compete agreements with vendors and ongoing customer relationships 
that existed at the date of acquisition. A deferred tax liability of $28,000 has been recognised in respect of the customer relationships with 
a corresponding off set to goodwill. The goodwill and amortisation charges of the intangible assets are not expected to be deductible for 
tax purposes. 
Acquisition related costs of $34,000 have been expensed as incurred and are included in administrative expenses. WFL contributed $320,000 
of revenue and $28,000 of operating profit to the Group’s results for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. 
Had the acquisition of WFL occurred on 1 January 2013, Group revenue would have been approximately $60,000 higher and Group operating 
profit would have been approximately $5,000 higher. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
82 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
34. Acquisitions continued
Eauvell Wasserspender Service GmbH
On 1 September 2013, the Group acquired certain assets of Eauvell Wasserspender Service GmbH (“Eauvell”) for total consideration of $0.4 million. 
Eauvell is a bottled water company based in Kiel, Germany. The acquisition of the customers, brand and operating assets of the business provides 
Waterlogic with a strategic foothold in northern Germany. 
Fair value
$’000
Net assets acquired:
– property, plant and equipment 132
– other monetary assets 59
– monetary liabilities assumed (38)
– intangible assets recognised 174
Total net assets acquired 327
Goodwill recognised 76
403
Satisfied by:
– cash consideration 365
– retention amount 38
403
Net cash flow on acquisition:
– cash consideration 365
365
Intangible assets of $174,000 have been recognised comprising ongoing customer relationships that existed at the date of acquisition and 
the “Eauvell” brand name. The goodwill and amortisation charges of the intangible assets are not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
Acquisition related costs of $13,000 have been expensed as incurred and are included in administrative expenses. Eauvell contributed $168,000 
of revenue and $43,000 of operating losses to the Group’s results for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. 
Had the acquisition of Eauvell occurred on 1 January 2013, Group revenue would have been approximately $338,000 higher and Group 
operating profit would have been approximately $17,000 lower. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 83
34. Acquisitions continued
Cool Clear Water Group Ltd
On 21 June 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Cool Clear Water Group Ltd (“CCWG”) for total consideration of $55.8 million. CCWG 
is the market leading POU operator in Australia. This acquisition is a strategic expansion into a new geographical region which secures a platform 
for growth and also strengthens the group’s recurring contracted revenue. The purchase price allocation exercise is still in process and accordingly 
the fair values set out below are provisional.
Provisional
fair value
$’000
Net assets acquired:
– property, plant and equipment 12,288
– trade receivables 3,244
– other monetary assets 2,021
– monetary liabilities assumed (5,577)
– net deferred tax liability (4,646)
– intangible assets recognised 17,613
Total net assets acquired 24,943
Goodwill recognised 30,835
55,778
Satisfied by:
– cash consideration 54,412
– additional consideration 812
– working capital adjustment 554
55,778
Net cash flow on acquisition:
– cash consideration 55,778
– less: cash acquired (152)
55,626
Intangible assets of $17,613,000 have been recognised comprising ongoing customer relationships and brand value that existed at the date of 
acquisition. The majority of the intangible asset value relates to customer contracts and relationships, which represent the future discounted cash 
flows arising on the customer base allowing for customer attrition rates in revenue and profits from these customers, and the balance of the asset 
value relates to the trade name “Culligan”. The intangible asset relating to customer contracts and relationships is being amortised over ten years 
and the trade name “Culligan” is being amortised over 3.5 years. Neither the goodwill nor the intangible assets recognised give rise to a tax 
deduction. A deferred tax liability of $5,284,000 is recognised in respect of these intangible assets with a corresponding off set to goodwill. 
This deferred tax liability is recycled through the income statement in line with the amortisation charges of the related intangible asset.
Goodwill of $30,835,000 arising from the acquisition relates to the value of the assembled workforce, the synergistic nature of the acquisition 
due to long-term cross-selling opportunities, potential cost savings and the expected future growth of the business.
Acquisition related costs of $1,116,000 have been expensed as incurred and are included in administrative expenses. CCWG contributed $11,320,000 
of revenue and $2,078,000 of operating profit to the Group’s results for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. Had 
the acquisition of CCWG occurred on 1 January 2013, Group revenue would have been approximately $10,089,000 higher and Group operating profit 
would have been approximately $1,852,000 higher. There was an asset purchase and restructure in the period prior to acquisition which means actual 
performance pre-acquisition is not reflective of the business structure that was acquired by Waterlogic. Therefore this uplift approximation is calculated 
by pro-rating the post-acquisition results in place of using actual performance pre-acquisition.
TaylorMade Water Systems, Inc.
The Group made a further payment of $19,000 in relation to the acquisition of TaylorMade during the current year with a commensurate increase 
in Goodwill. The Group re-evaluated the amount recorded for contingent consideration recognised in relation to TaylorMade Water Systems, Inc., 
increasing both contingent consideration payable and goodwill by $963,000 as a measurement period adjustment in relation to the acquisition 
of that entity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
35. Notes to the cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Movements in working capital
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 1,268 (451)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,814) 362
Increase in trade and other payables 2,783 2,129
Decrease in deferred revenue (1,046) (124)
Net effect of working capital movements 191 1,916
Net cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents 16,619 30,154
Bank overdrafts — (344)
Net cash and cash equivalents 16,619 29,810
Net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value.
36. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 4,618 4,288
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Within one year 3,558 4,069
In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,597 5,788
After five years 447 193
7,602 10,050
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, office equipment, warehousing, factory 
premises and vehicles. Typically vehicle and property leases are entered into for a minimum of three years with the possibility of extending the term 
for a minimum of a further twelve months in the case of leased property. Rent reviews and break clauses apply to leased property agreements.
The Group as lessor
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Rental income under operating leases recognised in the year 36,624 18,715
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with rental customers for the following future minimum lease payments:
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Within one year 33,079 20,069
In the second to fifth years inclusive 38,056 15,102
After five years 2,212 3
73,347 35,174
The lessee does not have the option to buy the leased equipment at the end of the lease term, although this may be negotiated at the request 
of the lessee. Any renewal or extension of the lease term is normally subject to negotiation of a new rental agreement by both parties. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 85
37. Share based compensation
Performance Share Plan and Non-Executive awards
At the date of the Company’s Admission to AIM the Company established the PSP for certain officers and employees of the Group. Awards 
take the form of a right to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company for nil consideration. All the awards include performance conditions, which 
are primarily one or more of: (i) continued employment within the Group; (ii) earnings for a specified fiscal year of the consolidated Group or 
an individual subsidiary; and/or (iii) an absolute level of Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) over a specified period of typically three years. 
Awards based on EBIT have been issued for fiscal years up to the year ending 31 December 2018.
Options under Non-Executive awards are held by Benoît Raillard and Jeremy Marshall. The Non-Executive awards are not granted pursuant 
to the PSP but, except for not having any performance conditions other than continuing to be a Director of the Company, have terms that 
mirror the PSP awards. 
The number of awards with the different performance conditions at 31 December 2013 is as follows:
Number
Continued employment only (including the Non-Executive Awards) 824,445
Continued employment and EBIT for a specific fiscal year 1,128,116
Continued employment and TSR for a specific period 1,425,831
Continued employment and other non-market conditions 81,097
3,459,489
There are 43 beneficiaries of the PSP as at 31 December 2013 (2012: 37). The weighted average fair value of each award made in 2013 is $1.94 
(2012: $2.78).
Details of awards outstanding under the PSP are as follows:
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
2013
Number
2012
Number
Outstanding at beginning of period 4,649,482 4,192,788
Granted during the period 805,000 2,054,240
Forfeited during the period (19,729) (839,692)
Exercised during the period (835,640) —
Expired during the period (1,139,624) (757,854)
Outstanding at the end of the period 3,459,489 4,649,482
Exercisable at the end of the period 518,134 835,640
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was $2.57 (2012: none exercised).
The total expense recognised in the year for the PSP awards (including the social security charges estimated to arise on the eventual exercise 
of the awards) is $1,709,000 (2012: $1,630,000). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 is 2.5 years (2012: 2.7 years). In 2013, awards 
were granted on 12 July. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of awards issued on that date is $1,563,000. In 2012, awards were granted 
on 11 June, 27 and 28 September and 1 October. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of awards issued on those dates was $5,705,000.
Valuation methodology
The fair value of the PSP awards other than the TSR related awards is measured as the market price of the underlying share at the date of grant. 
The market price is obtained from external, publicly available sources. At each year end the relevant accrual for each grant is revised, if appropriate, 
to take account of any changes in estimate of the likely number of shares expected to vest.
The fair value of the TSR related awards is measured by applying the probability of satisfying the conditions at the grant date through an appropriate 
statistical model. This initial valuation remains fixed throughout the life of the award, irrespective of the actual performance. Where a lapse occurs 
on non-market based options due to the cessation of employment the cumulative charge taken to date is reversed. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
86 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
38. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The Group does not operate retirement benefit schemes for any employees.
Some subsidiaries within the Group make contributions based on annual salary to employees’ private pension schemes or to statutory bodies. 
Other than amounts that are deducted from employees’ remuneration and accrued pending payment to the pension fund or statutory body 
concerned, no further obligations fall on the Group as the assets of these arrangements are held and managed by third parties entirely separate 
from the Group. The amount charged for the year was $797,000 (2012: $654,000) and the balance outstanding as at 31 December 2013 was 
$120,000 (2012: $31,000).
39. Financial instruments 
Capital management objectives
The Group manages its capital to ensure entities within the Group are able to continue operating on a going concern basis while maximising 
the return to stakeholders through optimising the balance between Group debt and equity. The Group’s overall strategy has evolved in the last 
four years in response to growth opportunities pursued both organically and through acquisition, as well as to the external financial environment 
and the availability of funding from external institutions.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity 
attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 29 to 32.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group regularly reviews the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The Group’s gearing ratio at the balance sheet date 
was 35 per cent (2012: minus 27 per cent). This is within the Group’s long-term target gearing ratio to be in the range of 15 per cent to 35 per cent.
Gearing ratio
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows:
2013
$’000
2012*
$’000
Debt (note 22) 47,631 5,724
Cash and cash equivalents (16,619) (30,154)
Net debt/(funds) 31,012 (24,430)
Equity attributable to shareholders 89,884 89,007
Net debt/(funds) to equity ratio 35% (27)%
* See note 3 for details of restatement of prior period figures.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group that are managed as capital.
Categories of financial instruments
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 16,619 30,154
Loans and receivables 23,165 23,312
Fair value through profit and loss (“FVTPL”):
– designated as FVTPL 187 —
39,971 53,466
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit and loss (“FVTPL”):
– designated as FVTPL — (96)
– derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships (187) —
– financial liabilities held at amortised cost (82,718) (37,152)
(82,905) (37,248) Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 87
39. Financial instruments continued
Financial assets designated at FVTPL
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate cap arrangements in relation to variable rate loans with a notional principal value of $15,530,000 
(US$ equivalent). A premium of $322,000 was paid for the cap arrangements in September 2013, and the resultant assets were designated 
as financial assets carried at FVTPL.
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Opening fair value — —
Additions during the period 322 —
Change in fair value (135) —
Closing fair value 187 —
Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL
In 2011 the Group recognised a derivative financial liability for the interest rate swap contracts entered into during the year, and these have been 
designated as FVTPL. These swaps were settled on 31 May 2013 and 10 June 2013 respectively, leaving no interest rate swap liabilities held at 
FVTPL. The interest rate swaps entered into in 2013 have been determined as effective cash flow hedges from inception and as such are not 
valued at FVTPL.
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Opening fair value (96) (132)
Realised during the period 73 —
Change in fair value 23 36
Closing fair value — (96)
Interest rate swap contracts
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated 
on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the cash flow exposure 
on the issued variable rate debt held. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash 
flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below. The average interest rate 
is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date:
Cash flow hedges
 Average contract fixed interest rate Notional principal value Fair value
Outstanding receive floating pay fixed contracts
2013
%
2012
%
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Two to five years 3.2% N/A 22,034 — (187) —
22,034 — (187) —
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis. The floating rate on the swap denominated in Norwegian Kroner is three months’ NIBOR, 
whilst for that denominated in Australian Dollars it is three months’ BBSW (BBSY). The Group will settle the difference between the fixed and 
floating interest rate on a net basis.
Interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges to 
reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments 
on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the floating rate 
interest payments on debt affect profit or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
39. Financial instruments continued
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s finance function is responsible for all aspects of corporate treasury. It co-ordinates access to financial markets and monitors and 
manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude. 
The financial risks considered include market risk (including foreign currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity 
risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge risk exposures. The use of financial 
derivatives is governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles to guide the finance function in addressing 
all such risks, and the appropriate use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity. 
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Further information about the nature of these risks and the mitigations in place are set out in the principal risks and uncertainties set out 
on pages 22 to 25.
Foreign currency
The carrying amounts of the Group’s currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at 31 December 2013 and 2012 were as follows:
Liabilities Assets
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
US Dollars (9,781) (19,838) 14,285 34,514
Euro (3,579) (4,347) 5,283 6,270
Swedish Krona (2,349) (2,339) 2,879 2,259
Norwegian Kroner (12,812) (4,071) 5,566 4,218
GB Pound Sterling (5,293) (5,712) 6,164 4,061
Australian Dollar (42,926) — 4,198 —
Other currencies (6,165) (2,425) 1,596 2,144
(82,905) (38,732) 39,971 53,466
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in the Australian Dollar, the Norwegian Kroner and the Euro.
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10 per cent increase or decrease in the US Dollar against the relevant foreign currencies. 
10 per cent is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents management’s 
assessment of a reasonably possible significant movement in foreign exchange rates over the near term (three to twelve months). The sensitivity 
analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10 per cent 
change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan 
is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower. A negative number below indicates a decline in profits and other equity 
where the US Dollar strengthens 10 per cent against the relevant currency. For a 10 per cent weakening of the US Dollar against the relevant 
currency, there would be a comparable impact on the profit and other equity and the balances below would be positive.
 Impact on profit and loss Impact on equity
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Profit/(loss)    
Australian Dollar impact
(i)
1 — 3,674 —
Norwegian Kroner impact
(ii)
572 (15) 85 (15)
Euro impact
(iii)
(34) (192) (200) (192)
(i) This is mainly attributable to the exposure to outstanding Australian Dollar payables and borrowings at the balance sheet date.
(ii) This is mainly attributable to the exposure to outstanding Norwegian Kroner payables and borrowings at the balance sheet date.
(iii) This is mainly attributable to the exposure on Euro cash balances and receivables at the balance sheet date.
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis above is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign currency risk as the year-end exposure 
calculated above reflects neither the foreign exchange gain/loss incurred on the translation of non-monetary assets and liabilities held 
within foreign operations, nor the foreign exchange exposure arising from foreign currency transactions during the period. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 89
39. Financial instruments continued
Interest rates
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because entities in the Group borrow funds at floating interest rates. The risk is managed by the 
utilisation of interest rate swap contracts as well as interest rate caps. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views 
and defined risk appetite, ensuring the most cost-effective hedging strategies are applied.
The Group’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments 
at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at balance sheet date 
was outstanding for the whole year. A two per cent increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management 
personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been one per cent higher and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2013 
would decrease by $214,000 (2012: decrease by $10,700). If interest rates had been one per cent lower and all other variables were held constant, 
the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2013 would increase by $206,000 (2012: increase by $10,700). This is attributable to the Group’s 
exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings. 
If interest rates had been one per cent higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, other comprehensive income would increase/
decrease by $577,000.
The Group’s sensitivity to interest rates has increased in the current period due to the increase in loans and borrowings held by the Group as a 
result of the new loan facility drawn down in June 2013. See below for details of the interest rate swaps and caps taken out by the Group in order 
to partially mitigate this risk.
Credit risk
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation 
is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or group of counterparties having similar characteristics. 
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities. With the exception of cash deposits held by the 
Group’s principal banker, concentration of credit risk relating to any single counterparty did not exceed 10 per cent of gross monetary assets 
(2012: 10 per cent).
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are primarily banks with high credit 
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The carrying amount recorded for financial assets in the Financial Statements is net of impairment losses and represents the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk. No guarantees have been given in respect to third parties. In addition for contracted rental agreements deposits 
or advances may be held to mitigate risk. The Group also holds legal recourse and can exercise its right to recover rental equipment from 
non-performing customers. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
39. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity and interest risk 
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods. 
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can 
be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted 
amount is derived from interest rate yield curves at the balance sheet date. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the 
Group may be required to pay.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
%
Less than 
one 
month
$’000
One to three
 months
$’000
Three
 months to 
one year
$’000
One to five
 years
$’000
More than
five
 years
$’000
Total
$’000
31 December 2013   
Finance lease liability 4.27% 5 12 24 19 — 60
Variable rate instruments 
– bank borrowings 5.13% — 646 5,176 55,029 — 60,851
Fixed rate instruments – securitised 
deferred revenue obligations 14.17% 6 19 48 42 — 115
11 677 5,248 55,090 — 61,026
31 December 2012   
Finance lease liability 5.80% 13 20 35 23 — 91
Variable rate instruments 
– bank borrowings 3.86% 259 62 194 127 332 974
Fixed rate instruments – securitised 
deferred revenue obligations 14.17% 6 20 58 115 — 199
Fixed rate instruments 
– bank borrowings 4.44% 1,049 325 908 2,249 — 4,531
1,327 427 1,195 2,514 332 5,795
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative financial assets as recognised at 31 December 2013 and 2012. 
The table below has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be 
earned on those assets. The inclusion of information on non-derivative financial assets is necessary to understand the Group’s liquidity risk 
management as the liquidity is managed on a net asset and liability basis.
Non-derivative financial assets
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
%
Less than
one 
month
$’000
One to three
 months
$’000
Three
 months to 
one year
$’000
One to five
 years
$’000
More than
five
 years
$’000
Total
$’000
31 December 2013   
Non-interest-bearing 0.00% 32,915 — — — — 32,915
Variable interest rate instruments 0.33% 6,869 — — — — 6,869
39,784 — — — — 39,784
31 December 2012   
Non-interest-bearing 0.00% 32,902 — — — — 32,902
Variable interest rate instruments 0.20% 20,564 — — — — 20,564
53,466 — — — — 53,466
The above table reflects only non-derivative financial assets and therefore these figures differ from those shown in the analysis of currency 
denominated monetary assets because derivative financial instruments totalling $187,000 (2012: $nil) have been excluded. 
The amounts included above for variable interest rate instruments for both non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are subject to change 
if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rates determined at the relevant year ends presented above. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 91
39. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity and interest risk continued
The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments based on contractual maturities. The table has 
been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis. There are no 
financial instruments held by the Group that require settlement on a gross basis as at 31 December 2013.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates 
as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than
one month
$’000
One to three
 months
$’000
Three months
to one year
$’000
One to five
 years
$’000
Total
$’000
Carrying 
value
$’000
31 December 2013   
Net settled:
– interest rate swaps — (47) (140) (4) (191) (187)
– interest rate caps — — — 6 6 187
31 December 2012   
Net settled:
– interest rate swaps — (14) (37) (45) (96) (96)
Financing facilities
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Overdraft facilities
Unsecured bank overdraft facilities, reviewed annually and payable at call: 
– amount used — —
– amount unused — 278
— 278
Secured bank overdraft facilities:
– amount used — 344
– amount unused — 1,434
— 1,778
Total bank overdraft facilities:
– amount used (note 22) — 344
– amount unused — 1,712
Total bank overdraft facilities — 2,056 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
39. Financial instruments continued
Financing facilities continued
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Loan facilities
Unsecured bank loan facilities:
– amount used — 899
– amount unused — 1,612
— 2,511
Secured bank loan facilities:
– amount used (note 22) 47,460 4,196
– amount unused 21,115 5,391
68,575 9,587
Total bank loan facilities:
– amount used (note 22) 47,460 5,095
– amount unused 21,115 7,003
Total bank loan facilities 68,575 12,098
Of the unutilised loan facility disclosed above $6,115,000 is committed, with a further $15,000,000 uncommitted facility available to the Group 
should certain conditions be met.
Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the Financial Statements 
approximate their fair values.
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value 
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
 w the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined 
with reference to quoted market prices (includes listed redeemable notes, bills of exchange, debentures and perpetual notes);
 w the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with generally 
accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer 
quotes for similar instruments; and
 w the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow 
analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives and option pricing 
models for optional derivatives. Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future 
cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Fair value measurements 
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value. The grouping 
into Levels 1 to 3 is based on the degree to which their fair value is observable:
 w Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 w Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
 w Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based 
on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 93
39. Financial instruments continued
Fair value measurements continued
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The following table 
gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined (in particular the valuation techniques 
and inputs used).
Fair value at year end
Significant
unobservable  
inputs
Relationship
of unobservable 
inputs to fair value
Financial assets/ 
financial liabilities
31 December  
2013
31 December  
2012
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation technique(s)  
and key inputs
Interest rate caps Assets: 
$187,000 
Nil Level 2 Future cash flows are  
estimated based on forward 
interest rates (from observable 
yield curves at the end of the 
reporting period) and contract 
interest rates, discounted at  
rate that reflects the credit risk  
of the various counterparties.
N/A N/A
Interest rate swaps Liabilities: 
$187,000
Liabilities: 
$96,000
Level 2 Future cash flows are  
estimated based on forward 
interest rates (from observable 
yield curves at the end of the 
reporting period) and contract 
interest rates, discounted at  
rate that reflects the credit risk  
of the various counterparties.
N/A N/A
Contingent consideration 
in a business combination
Liabilities: 
$1,453,000
Liabilities: 
$4,843,000
Level 3 Discounted cash flow. Discount rate 
of 8.75%.
Profitability 
adjusted.
Probability 
adjusted 
revenues 
and profits.
The higher the 
discount rate, 
the lower the 
fair value.
The higher 
the revenue and 
profit, the higher 
the fair value.
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position
The financial instruments held by the Group that are measured at fair value all relate to financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit 
and loss (“FVTPL”) using methods associated with Level 3.
Level 2
$’000
Level 3
$’000
Total
$’000
2013
Financial assets at FVTPL   
Interest rate caps 187 — 187
187 — 187
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Contingent consideration — (1,453) (1,453)
— (1,453) (1,453) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
39. Financial instruments continued
Fair value measurements continued
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position continued
Level 2
$’000
Level 3
$’000
Total
$’000
2012
Financial assets at FVTPL   
Interest rate caps — — —
— — —
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Interest rate swaps — (96) (96)
Contingent consideration — (4,843) (4,843)
— (4,939) (4,939)
There were no transfers between Level 2 and 3 during the current or prior year.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial liabilities
FVTPL – 
interest 
rate swaps
$’000
Contingent 
consideration
$’000
Total
$’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 (132) (1,874) (2,006)
Total gains or losses:
– in profit or loss 36 (572) (536)
– in other comprehensive income — (1) (1)
Assumed in a business combination — (2,408) (2,408)
Settlements — 12 12
Balance at 1 January 2013 (96) (4,843) (4,939)
Total gains or losses:
– in profit or loss 23 95 118
– in other comprehensive income — (9) (9)
Assumed in a business combination — (1,047) (1,047)
Settlements 73 4,351 4,424
Balance at 31 December 2013 — (1,453) (1,453)
The following table shows the sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions as at 31 December 2013:
Contingent consideration
 Reflected in profit or loss 
 
 
Favourable
 change
$’000
Unfavourable 
change
$’000
EBITA 10% 43 (41) 
Discount rate 1% 20 (17)
Significant assumptions used in determining fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
Interest rate swaps
The fair value of the liability component of interest rate swap contracts was determined by the respective financial institution utilising option 
valuation techniques which themselves are based both on observable market data and assumptions on future interest rate levels. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 95
40. Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Senior Executive Management Committee members, who are the key management personnel of the Group, 
is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2013
$’000
2012
$’000
Short-term employee benefits 3,576 3,440
Termination benefits — 226
Share based incentives 1,166 1,132
4,742 4,798
At 31 December 2013 key management personnel had interests in 2,209,566 Ordinary Shares of the Company (2012: 2,606,252 shares) by virtue 
of conditional share awards made under the PSP and Non-Executive awards. See note 37 for more details. 
Transactions involving Directors and senior management
Remuneration for a full-time position of employment held by the wife of the Group Chief Executive, who is not included as a member of key 
management personnel, totalled $nil (2012: $259,000) including a termination payment of $nil (2012: $100,000).
Details of the Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Ariel Recanati and a US incorporated limited liability entity of which Ariel Recanati is a Director and a major shareholder purchased services, 
in the normal course of business and under normal terms and conditions, to the value of $97 and $247 respectively (2012: $448 and $439) 
as customers of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2013. At 31 December 2013, the amount outstanding was $nil (2012: $nil). During 
the year the highest amount outstanding was $97 from Ariel Recanati and $247 from the entity of which Ariel Recanati is a Director 
(2012: $448 and $439 respectively).
Loans to related parties
The Group has provided some staff in the UK and France with short-term interest free loans to assist them with the purchase of season tickets 
for travel or the purchase of a car on its disposal. In all cases the loans are repaid through monthly deductions from salary.
The amounts outstanding at 31 December 2013 amounted to $nil (2012: $nil) and are unsecured. No guarantees have been given or received.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
96 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
ADVISERS
Company registration number
108193
Registered office
12 Castle Street 
St Helier 
Jersey JE2 3RT
Registered with the CRO (Ireland) as having a place of business in 
Ireland from 8 July 2011 (Pursuant to Section 352 Companies Act 1963)
Suite 4 
2nd Floor 
The Avenue 
Sandyford 
Dublin 18 
Ireland
Executive Directors
Jeremy Ben-David 
Peter Cohen
Robert Bell
Non-Executive Directors
Ariel Recanati
Benoît Raillard
Jeremy Marshall
Ziv Gil
Secretary
Capita International Financial Services (Ireland) Limited
2 Grand Canal Square
Grand Canal Harbour 
Dublin 2 
Ireland
Bankers
HSBC plc
60 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4N 4TR
Nominated advisers and brokers
Liberum Capital Limited
Ropemaker Place 
Level 12 
25 Ropemaker Street 
London EC2Y 9LY
Independent auditor
Deloitte LLP  
Chartered Accountants
Southampton UK
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services (Jersey Limited) 
Queensway House 
Hilgrove Street 
St Helier 
Jersey JE1 1ES  Waterlogic Plc 
12 Castle Street
St. Helier  
Jersey JE2 3RT
www.waterlogic.com
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
