 The Weir Group PLC 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 THE WEIR GROUP 
IS A GLOBAL
ENGINEERING 
GROUP
weir co uk/annualreport2012
We are focused on delivering engineering solutions to 
customers in the minerals, oil and gas and power markets. 
Operating in more than 70 countries and employing more than 
14,000 people, we support our customers through a worldwide 
network of around 200 manufacturing and service facilities.
> Read more about the Company on page 2.
The equipment and support we provide, together with a 
commitment to excellence across the value chain, helps our 
customers to deliver resources upon which society depends. 
> Read more about our performance from page 12.
Directors’ Report 
Section I. 
Overview of Weir
2012 Highlights  ............................................................................................... 1
Weir at a Glance ............................................................................................... 2
Chairman’s Statement  .................................................................................... 4
Our Strategy and Business Model  ................................................................ 6 
Section II. 
Review of the Year
Key performance Indicators ........................................................................... 8
Understanding Our Markets  ........................................................................ 10 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review  ............................................................. 12
Excellence Across the Value Chain .............................................................. 20
Our People ..................................................................................................... 22
Operational Review 
> Weir Minerals .............................................................................................. 24
> Weir Oil & Gas ............................................................................................. 28
> Weir Power & Industrial  ............................................................................. 32
Financial Review  ........................................................................................... 36
How We Manage Risk ................................................................................... 42
Sustainability Review  ................................................................................... 46
Board of Directors  ........................................................................................ 48
Group Executive ............................................................................................ 50
Section III. 
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report  .................................................................... 51
Remuneration Report  ................................................................................... 66
Other Statutory Information  ......................................................................... 81
Financial Statements
Section IV. 
Independent Auditor’s Report  ..................................................................... 83
Consolidated Income Statement  ................................................................ 84
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  ................................ 85
Consolidated Balance Sheet  ....................................................................... 86
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  ........................................................... 87
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  .......................................... 88
Notes to the Group Financial Statements  .................................................. 89
Independent Auditor’s Report  ................................................................... 138
Company Balance Sheet  ........................................................................... 139
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  ........................................... 140
Company Information
Principal Companies of the Group  ............................................................ 151
Shareholder information  ............................................................................ 152
Glossary  ...................................................................................................... 154
Financial Calendar and Cautionary Statement ......................................... IBC
Cover image: Lucivaldo Gonçalves dos Santos, foundry assembler, Weir Minerals Brasil. 2012 Highlights
Financial
Financial and Strategic
Revenue
£2,538m 
+1 1%
Operating proﬁt
2
£486m 
+18%
Proﬁt before tax
2
£443m 
+1 2%
Order input
1
£2,397m 
-2%
Earnings per share
2
 150. 1p 
+1 2%
Dividend per share
38.0p 
+15%
Net debt
£689m 
Record pre-tax proﬁts up 12% to £443m;
Record Group operating margin, supported  
by strong performance by Minerals;
Strengthening aftermarket input: 57% of total 
orders (2011: 52%); 
Resilient Oil & Gas performance, supported  
by positive contributions from acquisitions;
Strategic progress: higher R & D investment; 
expanded product portfolio and service presence;  
Full year dividend increased by 15% to 38.0p with 
further double digit increase planned in 2013.
1. 2011 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
2. Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation. 
IV
III
II
I
1 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Overview of Weir 2012 Group input by geography
North America 37%
South America 14%
Europe 14%
Australia 9%
Middle East and Africa 14%
Asia-Paciﬁc 12%
2012 Group input by market
Minerals 45%
Oil & Gas 33%
Other 4%
Power & Industrial 18%
Our divisions provide mission critical engineering 
equipment, services and support to customers in 
the global energy and natural resources markets.
Weir at a Glance
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION
WORLDWIDE
Our aim of extending our positions in the high growth, long cycle minerals, oil and gas 
and power markets is delivered through our strategic pillars of value chain excellence, 
innovation, collaboration and global capability. 
> Read more about strategy on page 6. 
NORTH AMERICA
76 facilities
4,330 people
SOUTH AMERICA
23 facilities
1,750 people
MIDDLE EAST 
AND AFRICA
26 facilities
1,770 people
AUSTRALIA
27 facilities
1,160 people
ASIA-PACIFIC
18 facilities
2,350 people
EUROPE
30 facilities
3,000 people
Directors’ Report: Overview of Weir
2 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Minerals
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
products used in mining and minerals 
processing. Weir Minerals is the global  
leader in slurry handling equipment. 
 
Revenue
£1 ,334m 
+1 2%
Operating proﬁt
£256m 
+21 %
Key brands: 
Warman, Vulco, Cavex and Linatex
Main markets: 
Mining and minerals processing; oil sands; aggregates;  
ﬂue gas desulphurisation and tunnelling and dredging
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, Chile, Brasil, Peru, UK, Netherlands,  
South Africa, India, China and Australia 
Major customers: 
Major and Junior Mining Houses; EPCs (Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction Companies); National  
and International Oil Companies
Employees: 
7,900 
Addressable market: 
£5.7bn
Oil & Gas
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
products used in upstream pressure-
pumping, pressure control and downstream 
reﬁning operations. Weir Oil & Gas is the 
market leader in pressure-pumping equipment 
in North America.
Revenue
£844m 
+13%
Operating proﬁt
£21 1 m 
+1 4 %
Key brands: 
SPM, Seaboard, Novatech, Mesa, Gabbioneta  
and Weir Oil & Gas Services
Main markets: 
Oil and gas drilling and completion; oil reﬁning 
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, Middle East, China, Singapore  
and Australia
Major customers: 
Oilﬁeld Service Companies; National and International  
Oil Companies; EPCs
Employees: 
3,100
Addressable market: 
£4.5bn
Power & Industrial
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
valves, pumps and turbines for the 
conventional and renewable power  
and industrial and oil and gas markets.
Revenue
£323m 
+7%
Operating proﬁt
£3 1 m 
+20%
Key brands: 
Roto-Jet, Blakeborough, Atwood & Morrill, Batley Valve, 
BDK, Hopkinsons, Tricentric, Sarasin-RBSD, Sebim, 
Allen Steam Turbines, American Hydro and WEMCO
Main markets: 
Nuclear and conventional power generation; water and 
wastewater; mid and downstream oil and gas; waste  
to energy; biomass; paper and pulp and foodstuffs
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, France, Spain, South Korea, 
Singapore, South Africa, India and China 
Major customers: 
Utility Companies; General Industrial Companies;  
EPCs
Employees:  
3,170
Addressable market: 
£7bn
 
>  Read more about Weir Minerals’ performance  
from page 24. 
 
>  Read more about Weir Oil & Gas’ performance  
from page 28. 
  
>  Read more about Weir Power & Industrial’s 
performance from page 32. 
IV
III
II
I
3 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 We are proposing a ﬁnal dividend payment to shareholders 
of 30.0p per share, making 38.0p for the full year, an 
increase of 15%. In 2013, we plan to continue the double 
digit dividend growth rate which we have delivered every 
year since 2005. This will be the 30th consecutive year  
of dividend growth for the Group. 
The 2012 performance was delivered against a background 
of testing conditions in the North American oil and gas 
pressure-pumping sector, one of our main served markets, 
and a signiﬁcant contributor to the Group’s growth in 
recent years. 
Focused, but diversiﬁed
To my mind, this tells us a number of important things 
about the Group. First, there are strong beneﬁts in  
the diversity of our chosen markets, ensuring in 2012 
that difﬁcult upstream oil and gas pressure-pumping 
conditions could be offset by the performances of our 
Minerals and Power & Industrial divisions. This diversity 
extends not only to our markets and divisions, but also  
to our operating geographies and our ability to drive 
revenues from both original equipment manufacturing 
and aftermarket support. This provides stable and more 
predictable earnings even in times of market volatility. 
Secondly, it highlights the ongoing relevance of the 
Group’s strategic pillars of innovation, collaboration, 
global capability and value chain excellence. This means 
that, despite operating in diverse sectors, all divisions 
beneﬁt from an increasing number of cross-divisional 
technological and operational initiatives, providing 
consistency across the Group and ensuring a return 
greater than the sum of the parts as we reap the  
beneﬁts of common supply chains and a Group-wide  
low cost footprint. 
Chairman’s Statement
Lord Smith of Kelvin
The Weir Group continued to perform well during 2012, 
borne out by revenues which grew 11% to £2.5bn and 
record pre-tax proﬁts from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, of £443m, 
a 12% increase on 2011.
A STRONG PERFORMANCE
FROM A FOCUSED, YET
DIVERSIFIED GROUP
Directors’ Report: Overview of Weir
4 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 10
27.0p
2010
33.0p
2011
38.0p
2012
20
30
40
Finally, in addition to organic initiatives, the Group 
continues to beneﬁt from its strategy of accelerating 
growth through acquisition. In 2012, Seaboard and 
Novatech contributed positively with Seaboard 
establishing the Group’s position in the pressure control 
market. In December, we announced the acquisition of 
Mathena, Inc, expanding our pressure control offering 
into the drilling phase of the wellcycle, and completed  
the sale of non-core LGE Process. 
Strategic momentum has also continued in the important 
area of innovation during 2012 with a number of new 
product launches and also tangible evidence that the 
infrastructure put in place by the Group to develop  
new technology and establish a sustainable pipeline  
of innovation is bearing fruit. More details of the strategy  
in action during 2012 are given in the Strategic Review.
Our wider commitments 
The Group makes a signiﬁcant economic contribution  
to the communities where it operates. Since the launch 
of the new strategy in 2010, we have provided nearly 
3,000 new jobs worldwide. Weir also supports businesses 
in 89 countries and every continent through its supply 
chain. And as Weir continues to grow, the Board  
is focused on ensuring that the Group’s social and 
environmental responsibilities are met fully. How we 
support our own people and those in the communities 
which surround our operations, the actions we deploy  
to mitigate and minimise our environmental impacts  
and the example we set in the way we do business are 
fundamental to maintaining our licence to operate. 
This year, the rollout of the Weir Environment, Health  
and Safety system marks an important step towards  
world class safety standards across the Group and  
the introduction of a behavioural safety system at the 
beginning of 2013 recognises the emphasis placed on 
establishing a strong culture of risk assessment across  
the business. Each of our businesses aims to mitigate 
greenhouse gas emissions through a number of initiatives. 
Our emissions by turnover remained constant on the 2011 
performance. We remain committed to reducing our 
carbon intensity and an action plan developed towards  
the end of the year provides a strong platform to enable 
the Group to take the next steps on its sustainability 
journey. Finally, the Weir Code of Conduct continues to 
inform employees of the right way to do business: ethically 
and with integrity. Training on the Code is mandatory. 
The Board’s work programme during 2012 was 
extensive, providing a good overview of market 
conditions and operational priorities. As happens 
annually, we visit the Group’s operations to develop 
further our understanding of the business. This year,  
we spent time in Texas at our largest pressure-pumping 
business, SPM. These trips are invaluable to every 
Non-Executive Director, providing a chance to truly  
get under the skin of the Group’s activities. Once again,  
the quality and commitment of our people was self-
evident, with a growing number taking advantage  
of the opportunities provided by the Group’s recently 
introduced learning and development framework. The 
quality and commitment of Weir employees was also 
matched during the year by my fellow Board members.  
I would like to thank them for their contribution. Earlier 
this month, we announced the appointment of a new 
Non-Executive Director. Charles Berry joins the Board  
on 1 March 2013 and will add great experience and 
knowledge of international energy markets. 
If 2012 has taught us anything, it is that a challenge  
in one of our markets does not prevent the delivery of  
a strong performance from the Group. Weir’s geographic 
and market exposures, combined with the growing 
capability of the business, enable value creation in lower 
growth conditions. Together with a proven, tested 
strategy and business model, the Group approaches 
2013 with conﬁdence and a number of opportunities  
to continue to grow and develop the business. 
 
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
27 February 2013
Dividend per share (p)
38.0p
+5p
IV
III
II
I
5 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 We will achieve this by continuously building on more than 141  
years of engineering excellence to attain the status of ‘partner  
of choice’ for innovative engineered products and services for 
customers in the global energy and natural resources markets  
that we serve. Attaining and maintaining this status is achieved  
by focusing on the four pillars which drive growth The Weir Way: 
value chain excellence, innovation, collaboration and  
global capability.
Our Strategy and Business Model
The Group’s strategy is to strengthen and extend its addressable 
markets in the attractive minerals, oil and gas and power sectors  
and to deliver sustainable growth ahead of these markets.  
Through effective delivery of these pillars we seek to grow revenues 
faster than our markets, deliver top-quartile margins and increase 
returns on capital whilst retaining a solid ﬁnancial base to pursue 
organic and acquisition-led opportunities. 
Our key performance indicators, shown on pages 8 and 9 are 
designed to track our performance in delivering this strategy.
VALUE CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
Investing in people, technology, safety performance and infrastructure to continue  
to develop our lean operating platform across the value chain.
Beneﬁts to Weir
 – Culture of continuous improvement 
 – Efﬁcient operations
 – Procurement and supply chain savings
 – Increase proﬁtability, cash and returns  
on capital 
Beneﬁts to our customers
 – Product and service quality  
from a responsible partner
 – Competitively priced solutions
 – Increased speed of response
Chosen for growth
The Group has chosen 
to operate in long cycle 
markets with positive 
fundamentals. We 
believe these sectors 
are inﬂuenced by trends 
that enable long term 
sustainable growth 
ahead of global GDP.
Emerging
market 
growth
Global 
megatrends
Our chosen 
markets
Driving growth  
The Weir Way
Water
security
Environment
Urbanisation
Energy
demand
Resource
scarcity
INNOVATION
Developing new products and technologies to provide the Group and our customers  
with competitive advantage. Innovation is also at the heart of developing our customer 
support activities and enhancing our functional capabilities. 
Beneﬁts to Weir
 – Technological advantage
 – Maintain market leadership
 – Enable access to adjacent markets
 – Increasing sales and returns through superior 
products and services
Beneﬁts to our customers
 – Lower operating costs
 – Lower environmental impact
 – Competitive advantage
Minerals
COLLABORATION
Working closely with customers, suppliers and communities and across our businesses  
and divisions is of critical importance. This collaborative mindset ensures Weir gains a 
better understanding of the markets it serves and the associated technology and support 
requirements. Collaboration ensures effective delivery for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders.
Beneﬁts to Weir
 – Customer intimacy
 – Leveraging Group capability across all served markets
 – Strong relationships with local communities
 – Maximising returns on asset and intellectual 
capital base
Beneﬁts to our customers
 – Technology and solutions partnership
 – Future needs anticipated
 – Reduce operating complexity
Oil & Gas
GLOBAL CAPABILITY
Providing uniform capability and expertise, wherever our customers are, ensures  
Weir can become the solutions provider of choice. Mission critical applications demand 
products and services that can be rapidly provided to the point of customer need.
Beneﬁts to Weir
 – Worldwide routes to market
 – Diversity of revenues
 – Leveraging solutions across multiple geographies
 – Sharing best practice across the Group
Beneﬁts to our customers
 – Global consistency of product and service
 – Rapid support and shorter equipment  
lead times
 – Partnerships with solutions experts
Power
Directors’ Report: Overview of Weir
6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Talent
service presence
Establish leading
Invest in technology and 
Develop close
Manufacturing and supplying
equipment to grow our installed base
 
Capturing aftermarket opportunities 
for spares, service and support
How we generate revenue
Expanding and cross-selling 
complementary product portfolio 
Quality
acquisitions
growth
Organic
equipment for critical processes
Provide highly engineered
How we sustain proﬁ table growth
development
customer relationships
engineering platform
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Information on how our business is affected by risk is contained  
later in this document.
> Read more about how we manage risk on page 42.
Our business
model
IV
III
II
I
7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Key performance indicators
The Board uses a range of ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial metrics, reported on a periodic basis,  
to monitor the Group’s performance over time. 
The key performance indicators and their linkage 
to Group strategy and operating priorities are  
set out below. 
Strategic Priority 
 
Input
1
  
(£m)
 
Operating 
margin
2
 
(%)
Free  
cash 
ﬂow 
(£m)
Return  
on capital 
employed
3
 
(£m)
 
 
Inventory 
turns
5
 
Total 
Incident 
Rate (TIR)
4
1. 
Strengthen and extend  
addressable markets in minerals,  
oil and gas and power sectors 
2. 
Attain status of partner of choice  
for engineered products and  
services in our chosen markets 
3. 
Value chain excellence 
 
 
4. 
Innovation 
 
 
5. 
Collaboration 
 
 
6. 
Global capability 
 
 
1. Calculated at 2012 average exchange rates.
2. Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
3. Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Seaboard and Novatech EBIT and 
exceptional items) divided by average net assets excluding net debt, pension  
deﬁcit (net of deferred tax asset) and Seaboard and Novatech net assets.
4. 2012 average v 2011 average measuring medical treatment of any kind required  
by employees divided by 200,000 hours worked.
5.  As reported 2011 excluding Seaboard.
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
8 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
1,876
2010
2,442
2011
2,397
2012
10
20
30
40
27.0
2010
29.2
2011
29.1
2012
16%
17%
18%
19%
20%
18.9%
2010
18.0%
2011
19.1%
2012
1
2
3
4
3.5
2010
3.4
2011
3.1
2012
25
50
75
100
80
2010
29
2011
62
2012
1
2
3
4
5
3.4
2011
1.6
2012
Input
1
 (£m)
£2,397m
-2%
Operating margin
2
 (%)
 19. 1 %
+1 10bps
Free cash ﬂow (£m)
£62m
+1 16%
Input for the year fell by 9% on a like for 
like basis, reﬂecting end market conditions
 – Group input fell as a result of a market 
downturn in pressure-pumping, Oil & 
Gas’s largest end market; input in 
Minerals and Power & Industrial grew 
strongly during the year.
 – Each division continued to broaden their 
portfolio through the development and 
launch of new innovative products.
 – We extended our geographic presence 
with each division expanding their  
service network.
Continuing to invest to support growth 
over the long term
 – Free cash ﬂow grew despite increasing 
working capital and capital expenditure.
 – Capital expenditure was committed to 
support the long term growth plans  
of each division, substantially ahead  
of depreciation.
 – Working capital increased as a result  
of higher inventory, particularly within  
the Oil & Gas division.
Margin improvement across all divisions
 – Operating margins in 2012 were a record 
for the Group.
 – Each division’s performance improved  
in the period, despite the challenging  
end market conditions.
 – This performance was supported by a 
continuing focus on lean principles and 
taking rapid action to align the cost base to 
reﬂect the changing end market conditions.
Inventory turns fell as stock levels 
increased faster than revenues
 – Inventory turns fell to 3.1x.
 – The sudden pressure-pumping market 
downturn resulted in the Oil & Gas division 
holding more inventory than expected.
 – Initiatives were launched in the second 
half of 2012 to reduce inventory levels 
across 2013.
Generating strong returns on capital 
through the business cycle
 – Return on capital employed was broadly in line 
year on year , with enhanced proﬁtability offset by 
investment in ﬁxed assets and working capital.
 – Capacity expansions were completed in all 
divisions, providing the platform for future growth.
 – Return on capital employed increased strongly 
at the Minerals division, supported by robust 
margin performance. Oil & Gas returns 
fell, reﬂecting lower activity levels.
Incident rate reduced by more than 50% 
over the course of 2012
 – Introduction of new Weir EHS system 
supported substantial safety performance 
improvement.
 – Audits of all plants were completed  
with resulting action plans addressed 
during 2012.
 – New behavioural programme developed 
to further improve the safety culture 
across the organisation. 
Return on capital employed
3
 (%)
29. 1 %
-10bps
Inventory turns
5
3. 1
Total Incident Rate (TIR)
4
1.6
IV
III
II
I
9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Copper 26%
Gold 18%
Coal 7%
Iron 14%
Phosphate 4%
Alumina/Bauxite 4%
Zinc 2%
Nickel 4%
Platinum 2%
Diamonds 1%
Other minerals 17%
22,000
Existing mines
Firm projects Possible projects
Probable projects Demand
00
20,000
18,000
16,000
14,000
12,000
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Minerals
Weir operates primarily in the global minerals processing 
sector, with growing exposure to the Canadian oil sands, 
where oil is often recovered through a surface mining 
process. Our equipment and services are applied across 
the ‘mill circuit’, the surface process by which rock ores 
are broken down into end commodities such as copper, 
gold or iron ore. Our largest exposures are to those 
commodities with positive underlying fundamentals  
and which require the greatest amount of processing, 
such as copper and gold. 
Growth drivers for minerals markets are population growth 
and urbanisation, driven particularly by emerging markets, 
resulting in growing infrastructure, industrial and consumer 
demand. Mining house capital expenditure in greenﬁeld, 
brownﬁeld and replacement projects drives original 
equipment revenues and grows our installed equipment 
base. Minerals production trends drive aftermarket 
revenues as the installed base of equipment is exposed 
to wear and abrasion and global ore grades decline, 
requiring more processing to produce the same amount 
of raw commodity.
Key links to business model and strategy:
 – Highly engineered products used in critical processes
 – High levels of aftermarket support provide resilience
 – Strong service presence builds customer intimacy
 – Leadership in core mill circuit technologies
 – Broad product portfolio across mill circuit process ﬂow
 – Global industry: diversity of revenue and technological 
and operational leverage
Understanding Our Markets
Weir operates in three key markets: minerals,  
oil & gas and power. Together, these markets 
contribute 90% of Group revenue. 
1. Source: Weir 2012 input estimates. 
2. Source: CRU February 2013.
3. Source: US Energy Information Administration: Annual Energy Outlook 
2013 Early Release Reference Case.
4. US Energy Information Administration, International Energy Outlook.
Mining sector commodity mix
1
Forecast copper demand versus supply
2 
(Kt contained copper) 
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Oil & Gas
Weir operates in the conventional and unconventional 
upstream oil and gas markets, with a niche position 
supplying specialist pumps to downstream markets.  
The North American onshore unconventional market is 
our largest, with international unconventional opportunities 
beginning to emerge. We serve our markets in three main 
ways: pressure-pumping equipment and services, where 
cementing and hydraulic fracturing is used in onshore and 
offshore oil and gas wells; pressure control equipment 
and services, which ensure drilling, completion and 
production processes can be carried out efﬁciently and 
safely; and Weir Oil & Gas Services, where dedicated 
engineering support and spares are provided to Weir  
and third party onshore and offshore oilﬁeld equipment,  
as well as for desalination plants. 
The main growth driver in these markets is growing  
global oil and gas demand. The number of wells drilled 
determines demand for our equipment with rig count a 
readily available proxy for market activity, albeit each rig is 
expected to drill more wells per year due to improvements 
in technology and efﬁciency. The intensity and growing 
complexity of drilling and completion applications dictate 
aftermarket requirements. Our downstream business is 
inﬂuenced by reﬁning activity levels. 
Key links to business model and strategy:
 – Highly engineered products used in critical processes
 – High pressure abrasive applications increase 
aftermarket requirements
 – Leading service presence in all shale plays; strong 
customer partnership
 – Pump to wellhead capability; broad portfolio provides 
opportunities in conventional and unconventional markets
 – Global manufacturing and service footprint to capture 
international opportunities
Power 
Weir operates in the conventional, nuclear and renewables 
power generation, industrial and mid and downstream  
oil and gas markets. We serve these markets through the 
design and manufacture of valves, pumps and turbines 
and the provision of specialist support services. 
The main growth driver is growing global energy demand. 
Emerging market power needs, the replacement of  
ageing plant in developed countries and environmental 
regulations dictate power plant new build, maintenance 
and refurbishment programmes, investment in renewable 
energy projects and oilﬁeld infrastructure development. 
Key links to business model and strategy:
 – Highly engineered products used in critical processes
 – High temperature, high pressure applications
 – Global manufacturing and service footprint to capture 
international opportunities
 – Broad valves portfolio provides cross-selling opportunities
History Projections
Alaska
Lower 48 offshore
Other lower 48 onshore Tight oil
2
4
6
8
2005
2012
2020
US domestic crude oil production by source, 2005–2020  
(million barrels per day)
3
Non-associated onshore
Associated with oil
Shale gas
Tight gas
Alaska
Non-associated offshore
Coalbed methane
History Projections
2005
2012
2020
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
US dry natural gas production by source, 2005–2020  
(trillion cubic feet)
3
200
400
600
800
2025 2020 2015 2008
Non-OECD
OECD
Global power demand
 
(quadrillion btu)
4
IV
III
II
I
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 This highlights the many levers available to the Group  
to create sustainable, proﬁtable growth, with some  
key themes underpinning our 2012 performance: the 
strategic focus on broadening our product portfolio and 
offering this through an expanding sales and service 
network; the pace of new product introduction; the ability 
to successfully integrate acquisitions and quickly realise 
beneﬁts; and, ﬂexing capacity and leveraging the Group’s 
collective skills and supply chain. Behind all these factors 
stands the contribution of Weir’s 14,000 employees.  
I thank them all for their efforts this year.
Our markets in 2012 
An uncertain macro-economic environment in 2012 
contributed to commodity price volatility, with mixed 
conditions in Weir’s principal end markets. In mining, 
emerging market commodity demand continued to grow, 
supporting ore production and historically high levels of 
capital spending. Despite second half customer caution 
on commitments to new greenﬁeld projects due to lower 
commodity prices, existing committed projects continued, 
with strong ore production levels, particularly in those 
commodities to which Weir has greatest exposure,  
such as copper and gold. A softer market for iron ore  
and coal in the ﬁnal six months of 2012 impacted projects 
in Australia and Brasil. In oil and gas, North American 
upstream markets were challenging as US natural gas 
prices fell heavily in the ﬁrst quarter and remained at 
historically low levels for the full year, prompting a switch 
from dry gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations, 
resulting in a low double digit decline in US onshore  
rig count with a rising oil-focused rig count partially 
offsetting the large reduction in dry gas rigs. Lower 
pressure-pumping market demand, combined with 
forward ordering in late 2011 in anticipation of higher 
activity levels, resulted in excess frac pump capacity  
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Keith Cochrane
The Group has developed and enhanced its market 
presence in 2012, resulting in a good ﬁnancial 
performance despite facing challenging conditions  
in upstream pressure-pumping markets.  
A DEVELOPED 
AND ENHANCED 
PRESENCE
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 with aftermarket demand also affected by over capacity 
as well as lower utilisation rates and falling frac intensities. 
The pressure control market, where Seaboard operates, 
remained strong in the ﬁrst half of the year, albeit activity 
slowed slightly in the second half as rig count fell in the  
US and Canada. Outside North America there were early 
signs of encouraging growth in international pressure-
pumping markets and Middle East service markets were 
buoyant as Saudi Arabia increased production and the 
refurbishment of Iraq’s oilﬁelds continued. Power markets 
remained mixed, with global nuclear activity subdued as 
post-Fukushima safety reviews concluded. The low price 
for US natural gas has provided impetus to new gas ﬁred 
power projects in North America while opportunities in the 
hydro renewables market improved in the later stages of 
the year. General industrial activity remained subdued in 
Europe and North America. 
2012 performance
Overall order input in constant currency was down  
2% with original equipment input down 13% as the fall  
in demand for frac pumps was offset by procurement  
for greenﬁeld and brownﬁeld mining projects and  
a ﬁrst contribution from the Seaboard and Novatech 
acquisitions. Aftermarket input was up 9%, reﬂecting 
strong production levels in mining markets and market 
share gains across a broader aftermarket-focused 
product portfolio in minerals and oil and gas markets.
Group revenues were up 12% on a constant currency 
basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket 
sales increased to 55% with strong organic Minerals 
revenue growth offsetting the revenue impact of North 
American pressure-pumping markets. The Group 
produced another record proﬁts performance in line with 
our mid-year guidance, illustrating the resilience of our 
business model and diverse end market focus. Operating 
margins improved due to the revenue mix, continued 
operational efﬁciencies and effective cost control as well 
as reacting quickly to changing market conditions by 
realigning capacity and reducing headcount in those 
businesses most affected. We delivered on the key 
priorities set out 12 months ago, expanding our reach 
and improving capabilities across the Group.
This ﬁnancial performance was underpinned by good 
project activity in key mining equipment markets, 
particularly South America and Africa, despite a South 
African market affected by industrial unrest. Sales grew  
of the Minerals division’s broader product portfolio, 
enhanced during the year by the development of our  
own screens range and new product introductions, 
including the innovative Multiﬂo Highwall dewatering 
pump. In Oil & Gas, despite the challenges in North 
American pressure-pumping markets, Seaboard 
performed well in the pressure control markets and Middle 
East Service operations delivered a strong performance. 
We also saw the ﬁrst beneﬁts from the restructuring of  
the downstream business. Despite a relatively subdued 
global power sector, strategic momentum in the Power  
& Industrial division delivered strong input, output and 
proﬁt growth. 
We continued to invest in our growth plans during 2012, 
carefully targeting those areas with potential for strongest 
short and medium term returns. At the same time, we 
have implemented cost reduction measures in certain 
areas without jeopardising the ability of the business to 
capture longer term growth opportunities when markets 
improve. Capital expenditure of £116m supported plans 
to expand foundry capacity in Minerals and aftermarket 
component production and servicing in Oil & Gas.  
In Power & Industrial, we invested in a new aftermarket 
facility for the hydro business in Montreal. 
Working capital levels this year have been higher than 
those targeted at the beginning of 2012. A number of 
factors contributed to a build-up of inventory, the largest 
being the rapid change in North American pressure-
pumping markets. To address this, initiatives were 
launched in the second half of the year, with signiﬁcant 
beneﬁts expected to be seen in the next year. Despite  
this, free cash ﬂow from continuing operations was £62m 
and our return on capital employed was broadly ﬂat on  
a like for like basis. Our balance sheet remains strong  
and we retain the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to pursue organic  
and acquisition opportunities in line with our strategy. 
>>
Revenue
£2,538m
+1 1%
Operating proﬁt
1
£486m
+18%
1. Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional 
items and intangibles amortisation.
IV
III
II
I
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Better pump performance
BETTER PUMP 
PERFORMANCE
A QUESTION 
OF CRACKING 
THE CODE
Processing and pumping abrasive  
material such as mining slurry needs to  
be carried out as effectively as possible. 
This reduces the prospect  
of unplanned maintenance, 
minimises power use and 
enhances throughput for 
customers. A number of variables 
affect this – pressure and velocity 
distribution of the fluid used and 
the internal geometry of the 
pumps and associated equipment. 
For a number of years, 
computational fluid dynamics 
(CFD) has proven effective when 
water is used in informing the 
design of pumping equipment. 
However, existing CFD software 
proves to be less accurate  
in measuring what happens  
to fluids within pumping plant 
when handling slurry. 
At the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre, our engineers are working 
alongside leading University of 
Strathclyde academics to develop 
and apply the optimum CFD codes 
for slurry handling. An important 
part of the process involves 
closely monitoring equipment  
in the laboratory and in the field  
to validate the differences in 
performance. Through this 
fundamental research, Weir 
believes this will create the most 
accurate code to date for software 
that helps to design and produce 
ever greater efficiency and 
performance for our customers. 
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Driving growth The Weir Way 
The Group has successfully pursued its strategic 
priorities during the year, strengthening our ability to 
become a partner of choice for our global customer 
base. We have integrated Seaboard and Novatech  
into the Oil & Gas division, with both businesses 
performing well in challenging market conditions. 
Seaboard supports our strategy of diversifying the 
Group’s upstream exposure to pressure-pumping  
into an adjacent market which will also beneﬁt from  
the long term growth prospects for unconventional 
production. Growth opportunities for Seaboard have 
been validated and the product range is already being 
taken to international markets. The management team 
has been strengthened with senior additions to deliver 
on these opportunities. At the end of the calendar year, 
we extended our pressure control presence in the drilling 
phase of the well lifecycle through the acquisition of 
Mathena, Inc. Flow control production capacity was 
added at Weir SPM, with the development of a bundled 
product offering gaining traction in the second half  
of the year. An initial phase of planned foundry expansion 
increases our ability to serve global minerals and oil 
sands markets with capacity additions underway at  
our European foundry centre in the UK. The innovation 
framework developed in the last two years continues  
to bring new products to market. The highlight in 2012 
has been the ﬁve new products launched for oil and gas 
customers, increasing our addressable market by some 
US$500m and leveraging market-leading technology 
from all our divisions into the North American upstream 
oil and gas sector. 
Value chain excellence
In this year’s report, value chain excellence is recognised  
as the fourth pillar driving Weir’s growth. This acknowledges 
its critical importance in helping the Group achieve its 
strategic objectives as we increasingly focus on replicating 
the strong progress made in the continuous improvement 
of our operational performance across all areas of the 
organisation. This year, good progress has been made on 
supply chain and procurement initiatives and the ongoing 
development of the people who work for Weir. While more 
needs to be done as we continue to strive for zero accident 
workplaces, a strong improvement was also made in our 
safety performance this year. Gavin Nicol, Director of 
Operations Support and Development, and Pauline 
Lafferty, Director of Human Resources, provide more 
details on pages 20 to 23. 
>> 
IV
III
II
I
15 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Gladiator Slurry Pump
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Collaboration in action
COLLABORA TION IN ACTION 
THE GLADIA TOR
SLURRY PUMP
The Gladiator Slurry Pump is the latest proof of 
what can happen when our divisions collaborate 
to focus pooled technological expertise on the 
needs of customers in one speciﬁc market. 
These are the first pumps of  
their type produced by Weir for 
frac operations, blending and 
transferring a slurry mixture of 
water, gel and proppant. While 
developed for the oil and gas 
industry, these pumps owe  
their technological competitive 
advantage to the decades of 
expertise in slurry applications 
developed in our Minerals division. 
Using similar technology to that 
which has been used to great 
success in our market-leading 
pumping products used in mining 
applications, they enhance our 
presence across the oil and gas 
surface equipment market, directly 
plugging in to our existing product 
footprint across the frac site.  
The wear resistant spare parts  
of the Gladiator Slurry Pump are 
manufactured using the same 
alloy materials which are already 
proven to significantly extend 
equipment life in the world’s 
harshest mining environments. 
Compared to known slurry pumps, 
the new hydrodynamic design also 
extends the life of the critical wear 
components as well as making  
the pump more robust and easy to 
operate. Conceived and delivered 
through collaboration between the 
Oil & Gas and Minerals divisions  
of the Weir Group, we believe that 
the Gladiator Slurry Pump can offer 
customers a longer operational life 
than existing alternatives.
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Innovation 
Investment in research and development increased  
by 26% to £23m as the Group continues to invest in  
a pipeline of new products and product enhancements 
for our markets.
The Group has ﬁled around 40 patent applications  
this year, matching last year’s record number of  
new invention ﬁlings. In addition, in 2012 a number  
of collaborations have been formed with external 
companies to extend the technical capabilities  
of the Group. 
Our innovation efforts reinforce the critical sources  
of our technological advantage, chieﬂy the intellectual 
property associated with developing wear and pressure 
resistant materials, engineered hydraulics and, increasingly, 
technology that enables our customers to more effectively 
plan maintenance requirements. Taken together, this 
technology focus addresses key factors affecting our 
customers’ operational performance in Weir’s end 
markets. Across the Group, we have a product and 
technology development organisation to meet both short 
and long term strategic business objectives. Shorter 
term product development activity, with a time horizon  
of one to two years, is carried out at our many worldwide 
Design Centres of Origin, where a speciﬁc product family 
is continuously developed. Core technology platforms, 
such as materials development, are the focus of our 
global technology centres. Finally, fundamental research 
work is carried out at the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre (WARC) in Glasgow, as well as at various 
universities worldwide. Our global technology centres 
have continued to focus on improved materials for our 
markets and more efﬁcient and robust pump design.  
At WARC, good progress has been made on a major 
project that seeks to minimise wear, corrosion and 
erosion, increasing our understanding and helping  
to identify optimum solutions across manufacturing, 
materials selection, surface treatment and application 
processes and yielding patent pending technology 
related to ﬂuid end design, a key component used in 
pressure-pumping.
>>
IV
III
II
I
17 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 FROM COUNTRY 
TO CONTINENT 
GLOBAL CAPABILITY 
DELIVERS RESUL TS 
FOR P&I
During 2012, the Power & Industrial business developed 
a strategic relationship with Minerals colleagues in 
South Africa, taking its products from a single country, 
power sector focus to growing sales across the African 
continent and to customers in other sectors. 
Traditionally, the business had 
focused on power industry 
customers close to its facility  
in Johannesburg but dialogue 
between the two divisions in  
South Africa resulted in the 
Minerals sales team promoting 
Power & Industrial’s range of 
valves. Weir Minerals boasts wide 
geographical coverage across the 
African continent, with access to  
a greater number of customers. 
Cross-selling has benefited both 
divisions. Minerals has successfully 
introduced BDK industrial valves 
to the mining industry, while Power 
& Industrial has secured orders  
for Isogate slurry valves from local 
power stations. 
Participation in sales conferences, 
training and joint marketing 
initiatives have all supported this 
effort and the Power & Industrial 
service centre in South Africa  
is now located on the Minerals 
division’s Middelburg site where 
the facilities work hand-in-hand.
Tapping into the Group’s broad 
capability in Africa has also 
extended beyond customer-facing 
activities. Power & Industrial is 
now part of a bigger entity with 
stock and inventory management 
transferred to Weir Minerals, 
meaning greater buying power  
and resource utilisation across  
the two businesses. 
Development of this broadened 
capability has seen input from 
Power & Industrial South Africa 
increasing by almost 30% and 
output by nearly 70% in 2012.  
The business will continue to 
harness the Weir resources  
that exist across the region as it 
expands into new geographical 
territories and industries. 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
From country to continent
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 not live image
Collaboration
Providing engineering solutions works best when 
delivered in partnership with customers. Weir seeks to 
achieve this by ensuring that the structures are in place  
to ensure all our end markets beneﬁt from pooling the  
full potential of each of our divisions. During 2012 we  
have focused effort on reducing operational costs and 
complexity for customers, recognising the impact of more 
challenging economic conditions on their businesses.  
This has translated into a number of responses: providing 
greater depth of service and expertise closer to where  
it is needed to ensure minimum operational disruption; 
creating new delivery models to suit customer budgets, 
such as equipment rental contracts; and putting 
customers and Weir engineers together at an early stage 
as we develop new products, with extensive ﬁeld testing 
carried out during the year, enabling ﬁrst-hand customer 
feedback. Weir has also assisted clients in building skills 
capacity, for example working with Shell-operated PDO 
Oman to upgrade and manage their workshops, with  
Weir mentors training young Omanis to gain professional 
certiﬁcation. Divisional collaboration efforts have also 
underpinned successful realignment of capacity in the US. 
Our Excellence Committees continue to serve the Group  
well, with functional cross-divisional teams ensuring the 
dissemination of best practice in those areas fundamental 
to strategic delivery: engineering, procurement, talent 
development and environment, health and safety.
Global capability
The Group has continued to grow its worldwide 
presence, ensuring that our ability to partner with 
customers wherever our solutions are needed is not 
constrained by capacity, expertise or technology. 
Investment began this year to expand Minerals’ foundry 
capacity, providing a stronger manufacturing presence  
in every key global mining market and enhancing 
customer lead times. Our aftermarket activities continue 
to be supported by a growing service network, which 
now numbers more than 150 facilities, with additions  
on each continent. As well as adding new locations to  
this network, investment has been made in machining, 
tooling and technology to deepen our aftermarket 
capabilities, offering customers greater support and 
further developing our competitive advantage. Product 
localisation has been a strong feature of the year, with 
two examples being Weir International South Korea’s 
contribution to the development of a global valves 
platform and the production in India of our own 
mechanical seals range. Across the Group, effective  
use has been made by all divisions of the shared global 
footprint, with Minerals facilities in South Africa and 
Australia being successfully used by Power & Industrial 
to gain a strong foothold in these markets. 
Outlook
Across the medium term, the Group is positioned to 
beneﬁt from the growth prospects of our end markets 
despite an uncertain global economic environment:
 – Demand for the ﬁnite resources of minerals and oil and 
gas is underpinned by the continuing population growth 
and industrialisation of major developing economies.
 – Development of the world’s unconventional oil and gas 
resources will provide greater energy security for many 
countries and support industrial competitiveness.
 – Power infrastructure in both the developed and 
developing world will require refurbishment and 
replacement due to environmental concerns and 
ageing plant, with new build power stations required 
to address predicted structural power shortages  
in developing markets.
In 2013, we aim to grow ahead of our end markets by:
 – continuing to enhance supply chain performance to 
increase customer responsiveness and beneﬁt from 
Group leverage;
 – capturing North American and international pressure 
control growth opportunities; 
 – extending Minerals’ presence in comminution markets;
 – implementing and driving growth through an 
integrated global valves platform;
 – delivering an enhanced IT platform to support 
collaboration;
 – improving working capital performance to  
enhance returns.
In 2013, despite more challenging markets, the Group  
will continue to deliver proﬁtable growth through new 
product introductions and a range of operational initiatives. 
Assuming a gradual economic and end market improvement, 
we expect to deliver low single digit revenue growth and 
broadly stable margins in 2013 with lower ﬁrst half proﬁts 
offset by growth in the second half. Alongside substantially 
higher cash generation the Group plans the eighth 
consecutive year of double digit dividend growth.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
27 February 2013
IV
III
II
I
19 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Excellence Across the Value Chain
Gavin Nicol
Director of Operations Support and Development
During 2012, in addition to the momentum in the 
innovation agenda outlined in the Chief Executive’s 
Strategic Review, we have focused speciﬁcally on further 
improving our supply chain, operational and health  
and safety performance as we further develop our lean 
operating platform across every area of the Group.
Supply chain 
In adopting a Group-wide approach to working  
in partnership with suppliers, Weir seeks to optimise  
its supply chain. This partnership will lead to greater 
effectiveness in cost, quality, delivery and responsiveness, 
all critical factors in improving the experience of our 
customers. The Group also stands to beneﬁt from 
reductions in working capital.
In 2012 we analysed our supply chain and identiﬁed 
opportunities to employ best practice across common 
spend categories, aggregate demand and take our 
established lean approach into suppliers’ own processes. 
Enhanced data management has been introduced to 
provide spend visibility across all business units, enabling 
savings to be leveraged across the Group. Experienced 
resource was also added during the year, providing 
additional capability and capacity to deliver our supply 
chain strategy. 
Key supply chain achievements during 2012:
 – Implemented the Weir Procurement System across 
the Group.
 – Analysed total Group spend and introduced  
digital tools to engage our supplier base through  
a common portal.
 – Established Centres of Excellence teams for key 
commodities and aligned sourcing strategies  
to growth targets.
 – Increased ‘best cost country’ sourcing.
 – Established and implemented an engagement 
framework with key suppliers.
Operations
A lean philosophy drives Weir’s operational platform,  
with the principle of continuous improvement and 
minimum waste evident throughout our manufacturing 
operations and beyond the factory ﬂoor. 
Our lean methodology is delivered through the Weir 
Production System (WPS). We raise our lean standards 
year on year, recognising that our operations can always 
be more efﬁcient. Effectiveness is measured through  
a rolling audit process. During 2012 we have applied  
this lean audit process to supply chain activities across 
our operations. 
From the ongoing identiﬁcation of 
customer needs through our Weir 
Customer Experience Programme, to 
how we deliver equipment and services, 
our philosophy of delivering excellence 
throughout the value chain is a critical 
pillar of our strategy. 
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Review of the year PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Safety performance
At the heart of Weir’s  
safety philosophy is 
the belief that all incidents  
are preventable. Embedding  
this philosophy starts with  
making safety training job  
and task relevant.
Many Weir employees perform 
manual assembly or engineering 
tasks. Recognising this, an initiative 
was developed in Africa to create 
specific training to focus on the 
prevention of hand and finger 
injuries. The programme, which  
has seen a dramatic reduction  
in incidents involving hands and 
fingers, has been rolled out across 
every Weir business and formed 
the basis for other campaigns. 
Designed to address the specific 
activities that workers in the plant 
would recognise as ‘their job’ 
involved training in the importance 
that hands and fingers play in 
everyday life – inside and outside 
the workplace. This was reinforced 
by training on risk assessment and 
the appropriate personal protection 
equipment for each specific task. 
 
While managing task-focused  
risk, the ‘hands-on’ safety  
culture Weir seeks to develop was 
also driven home during training.  
This makes it clear that any 
employee has the power to  
stop colleagues, managers or 
processes when they observe 
risks being taken. The training 
emphasised the importance of 
two-way communication and also 
addressed practical issues by 
encouraging the disposal of 
inappropriate tools for the task.
 
Finally, a visible ongoing 
commitment from all employees, 
from Managing Director to shop 
floor operators, is underscored  
by the signing of a ‘pledge board’, 
prominently displayed on the  
shop floor. 
Another key area of focus has been working capital 
management with improvement activities developed 
through the Group’s innovation framework. A consistent 
Group-wide approach to inventory control and sales and 
operational planning has been embedded at every major 
site across the Group. 
 
Safety performance
The Group operates in the belief that all incidents  
are preventable. We are committed to a zero accident 
workplace. Safety performance is reported based  
on Total Incident Rate (TIR). This measures medical 
treatment of any kind required by employees divided  
by 200,000 hours worked. The results for 2012 show 
signiﬁcant improvement on the previous year. TIR has 
decreased from an average of 3.4 in 2011 to an average 
of 1.6 in 2012 with a continuing improvement trend.
The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Excellence 
Committee leads on EHS issues across the Group. 
Having developed a Weir EHS system in 2011 to set 
global standards, this year the Committee set out a 
‘roadmap’ for each business to achieve consistent,  
world class performance with ﬁve priority areas to 
progress over the next three years. Assisting in the 
delivery of the roadmap was face-to-face communication 
with every member of the Senior Management Group 
and video communications with all employees.
A rolling programme of rigorous internal safety audits 
was established to assess progress against priorities 
and to inform development plans at each business unit. 
The results of each audit and associated development 
plan are reviewed by the Group Executive.
Finally, to reinforce a strong culture of safety, the Weir 
behavioural safety system was developed throughout 
2012 and began to roll out across the Group earlier  
this month. The key message behind the system is that 
to ignore unsafe workplace practice is to endorse it. 
Every Weir employee will receive training in the system. 
For more information on Weir’s EHS activities, please  
go to weir.co.uk.
DEVELOPING 
EXCELLENCE 
IN SAFETY 
PERFORMANCE 
A HANDS-ON 
CUL TURE
IV
III
II
I
21 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Our People
Pauline Lafferty
Director of Human Resources
The following principles guide our approach to our 
employees. We seek to:
 – ensure no form of prejudice stands in the way  
of development or promotion opportunities; 
 – encourage, invest in and support our employees  
to achieve their potential;
 – identify the training and development needs of 
employees and ﬁnd ways to fulﬁl those requirements;
 – use the Weir Group Personal Development Plan (PDP) 
to identify and develop high potential individuals;
 – employ and retain people who share our values and 
behaviours and actively discourage those who do not;
 – work to maintain a business environment where 
individuals feel valued and respected;
 – provide development opportunities to internationally mobile 
employees by encouraging overseas appointments;
 – support individuals in developing and expanding  
their roles.
During 2012, a growing number of internal candidates 
made the transition to senior and middle management 
roles. This success is the ﬁrst evidence that the important 
steps put in place in 2011 to establish a comprehensive 
management and leadership development framework  
for the Group is providing a talent pipeline capable of 
supporting the present and future needs of the business. 
The framework identiﬁes and targets three key career 
development phases. Programmes are delivered to 
employees at each relevant stage with development  
and management tools designed to support and 
enhance Weir’s strategic objectives and organisational 
culture. Participants in the programmes are identiﬁed and 
selected by business unit and senior management based 
on alignment to The Weir Way values and behaviours. 
More information on these values is available at weir.
co.uk. In addition to the Group-managed programmes 
listed below, many local learning and development 
programmes are rolled out on an ongoing basis.
Weir Leadership Programme
The Weir Leadership Programme (WLP) develops high 
performing leaders and strategic awareness, creating 
alignment with Weir’s strategic agenda and leveraging  
its effective delivery. Programme participants are drawn 
from the Senior Management Group (SMG) with over  
150 senior managers taking part so far. The SMG is  
a group of around 300 senior employees with frontline 
responsibility for the development and delivery of the 
Group’s strategy. The programme is designed around 
practical business challenges. Peers from across the 
Group’s operations collaborate and support each other 
in facilitated learning groups. 
The Group recognises that motivated, 
skilled and effective people are 
imperative to our business, with talent 
development an important element in 
extending our global capability and 
sustaining proﬁtable growth. We are 
committed to attracting and retaining 
the best people and developing them  
to achieve their full potential.  
22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Review of the year Weir Business Management Programme
Designed in conjunction with a leading business school, 
the Weir Business Management Programme (WBMP) 
develops the 2011 pilot Emerging Leaders Programme. 
The WBMP delivers core business management skills 
and covers critical areas including leading people in 
organisations, ﬁnancial management, commercial 
awareness, operations management, innovation and 
project management. Completion of the programme 
leads to a postgraduate Certiﬁcate in Management  
and the opportunity to obtain a Masters in Business 
Administration. More than 50 managers from the Group’s 
global operations have participated in this programme.
Graduate Development Framework
During 2012, Weir recruited a total of 75 graduates across 
the Group from a variety of professional disciplines. The 
Graduate Development Framework provides a consistent 
development programme to give graduates within Weir  
a broad knowledge and understanding of the business.  
In 2012, two groups of more than 20 graduates attended  
a six day induction course in Scotland. 
Weir University
The Weir University was established in 2011 to provide all 
employees with online access to continuous professional 
development resources. This virtual resource is continuously 
enhanced and during 2012 modules were added in 
business ethics/Code of Conduct, project management, 
marketing and procurement. These are in addition to the 
range of courses and materials supporting Weir’s areas 
of technological competitive advantage, including 
metallurgy, failure analysis, corrosion and ﬁnite element 
analysis. The Weir University enables the consistent 
application of identical learning opportunities worldwide 
with employee user numbers continuing to increase.
Succession planning
The leadership development initiatives rolled out in 2011 
served to establish a robust management and leadership 
development framework. This framework contributed  
to the Group’s succession planning process across its 
businesses. In 2012, 44% of senior management group 
appointments were internal. 
In 2013, more staff will beneﬁt from our talent development 
framework as we begin the rotation of our graduate 
programme throughout our global network. This process 
begins when we deliver the programme in Bangalore, India, 
allowing our graduates to see our Indian facilities and engage 
with our 200 strong Indian engineering science team.
We will also undertake Group-wide initiatives to better 
gauge the alignment and commitment of our employees 
to delivering the Group’s objectives. The results will 
determine a range of actions to develop employee 
engagement and empower employees to continually 
improve customer satisfaction.
PEOPLE MATTER
Graduate Development 
Framework
ERICA SNIDER 
ROTATIONAL 
ENGINEER
I joined the Graduate Development 
Framework at Weir SPM in January 
2012, starting in sustaining engineering 
where I learned about our product 
line using computer models and doing 
hands-on assembly in pump school. 
In field engineering I helped 
service our pumps at a frac  
site with the customer’s crew  
and saw how our products are 
used in fracking operations.  
I am responsible for documenting 
the performance, operating 
conditions, and investigation 
findings of prototype fluid ends  
in field trials. I have completed 
investigative disassemblies and 
magnetic particle inspections of 
the trial units. I participated in the 
examination of selected fractures 
to determine initiation points and 
failure modes at the University  
of Strathclyde. I discovered the 
resources available to engineering 
teams within the Group through the 
Weir Advanced Research Centre. 
While in Scotland, I attended the 
Weir Group Graduate Development 
Programme and participated in 
team-building and personal 
development activities with 
colleagues from six countries 
drawn from all three divisions  
of the Weir Group. 
During that week, I saw the 
embodiment of Weir values in my 
colleagues: valuing people, working 
together, leadership, and integrity.  
I left with a greater understanding 
of how The Weir Way embraces 
innovation and collaboration across 
the global community. 
As I approach completion of  
the first half of the programme,  
I have discovered the high level of 
support Weir offers for my personal 
development. Gaining exposure to 
so many areas of the company this 
early in my career has taught me 
two things. First, intellect, merit, 
and capability are valued by Weir. 
Second, the Weir values are upheld 
universally across all industries, 
locations, companies, and cultures. 
Looking ahead to my final year of 
the programme, I will be involved  
in aftermarket operations at an 
SPM service centre and I will  
gain cross-divisional exposure in 
research and development and 
new product introduction activities 
with the Minerals Division.
IV
III
II
I
23 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Operational Review
Weir Minerals
Dean Jenkins, Divisional Managing Director
Key priorities and progress in 2012 
Expand global production capacity
 
 – Double digit capacity increases in Chilean and European 
foundry operations to support growth, with planning 
underway for further global foundry expansion. 
 – Capacity added in Europe, Mexico and South Africa 
to support the broader product range, with investment 
in infrastructure and tooling to support comminution 
products and rubber lining systems. 
 – Actions undertaken to align divisional capability with 
global customer demand. 
Continue to drive market share in ancillary 
products and services
  
 – Linatex product developments supporting increased 
cross-selling.
 – Strong growth in slurry transportation ancillaries.
 – Good revenue performance from organically 
developed screens range.  
Take product innovation to new areas 
within the mill circuit
 
 – Organic development of screen media and 
mechanical seals.
 – Signiﬁcant materials development for minerals 
and oil sands markets with new hard chrome  
white irons and oil sands hose technologies.
 – New Multiﬂo Highwall pump launched for  
dewatering applications. 
Build further on the collaborative successes 
of the Oil & Gas Forum to develop new products 
and services
 
 – Gladiator Slurry Pump designed and launched  
with Minerals materials technology contributing  
to enhanced product wear life.
 – Swellable packers for oil and gas downhole drilling 
applications developed using Minerals elastomer 
technology and gaining market acceptance. 
 – Linatex frac discharge hose designed for frac slurry 
transportation with independent testing showing 
greater abrasion resistance than competitor products.
During 2012, the division has continued 
to focus on leveraging its sector-leading 
market presence to drive sales of a 
broader range of solutions to customers, 
as technological innovation continued  
to develop our product portfolio.  
Order input
£1 ,322m
+7%
Operating proﬁt
£256m
+21 %
Revenue
£1 ,334m
+1 2%
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Review of the year Geographic input breakdown
South America 25%
North America 20%
Australia 16%
Europe 11%
Asia-Paciﬁc 10%
Middle East/Africa 18%
Market input breakdown
Minerals 81%
Industrial 7%
Power Generation 4%
Other 2%
Oil & Gas 6%
Market review
Global ore production increased by an estimated 3%  
in 2012, underpinned by continued demand growth in 
Chinese and emerging markets for key commodities such 
as copper. Average ore yields continued to fall, requiring 
greater levels of processing to maintain the same volume 
of reﬁned commodity and further supporting aftermarket 
demand growth.
Capital expenditure in the mining sector in 2012 remained 
ahead of the historically high levels seen in 2011, with over 
£65bn committed to a number of greenﬁeld developments 
and brownﬁeld expansions, a 9% increase on 2011 
despite new project activity cooling off from the peak seen 
in the ﬁrst half of the year. Prices remained above incentive 
levels for most key commodities during the year. Second 
half macro-economic concerns over Europe and China 
resulted in commodity price falls, particularly in iron ore 
and coal markets, leading to the deferral of some project 
decisions in Australia and Brasil. Industrial unrest 
impacted activity in South Africa in the second half of the 
year. Elsewhere, conditions in key minerals regions were 
positive. Buoyant activity levels continued in South 
America and the rest of Africa, driven by copper and gold 
projects. Weir has beneﬁted from its exposure to these 
process-intensive commodities. 
The completion of existing oil sands projects and resulting 
increases in production levels supported activity in North 
America, although new project activity levels were low, 
reﬂecting the emerging price discount of Canadian heavy 
oil compared to the WTI benchmark price as a result of 
transportation constraints. 
Operational performance
A record ﬁnancial performance from the division was 
underpinned by broadly positive conditions in most mining 
markets and continued success in the delivery of its 
growth strategy. Capital investment levels supported 
further growth in the installed base of slurry pumps, with 
new project commissioning beneﬁting production volumes 
and increasing levels of aftermarket demand. Targeted 
capacity addition and product localisation has supported 
growth in the division’s broad range of ancillary products 
and services. This growth has been supported by 
expansion of the sales and service footprint, a key source 
of market differentiation, with 13 new sites opened 
worldwide. Service capability has also been enhanced 
through investment in local machining capability and 
technical skills to support the growing product portfolio. 
The division enhanced its differentiated technology 
position during the year with a number of advances in 
materials technology at our global research centres which 
will contribute to prolonged wear resistance in customers’ 
critical applications. Minerals research and development 
efforts were also at the heart of major product launches 
for oil and gas markets.
Order input increased by 7% to £1,322m (2011: £1,239m). 
Original equipment orders grew 3% with growth weighted 
to the ﬁrst half of the year. Aftermarket orders grew  
10%, with the growth rate recovering in the fourth  
quarter following third quarter destocking in Australia 
and Brasil. Aftermarket orders represented 60% of total  
input (2011: 58%). 
Linked to new project activity, the division continued  
to experience good levels of demand for slurry pumps. 
Aftermarket input strengthened across a range of 
commodities with the beneﬁts of a large and growing 
installed base reﬂected in 10% order growth in slurry 
pump spares and strong input trends across a larger 
aftermarket portfolio including several multi-million  
pound orders for cyclones and valves in South America 
and Canada and a multi-million pound hose contract  
for a Latin American project. The division also grew  
its presence in the screen machine and screen  
media market, beneﬁting from investment in localised 
manufacturing. The ﬁrst major contract awards for 
Linatex wear resistant lined valves and cyclones were 
received for one of the world’s largest mineral sands 
projects in East Africa, a highlight of a strong overall  
2012 performance in the African market. Emerging 
markets accounted for 53% of input (2011: 47%) 
with order growth from South American and African 
markets rising by 18% and 30% respectively. 
Revenue increased by 12% to £1,334m (2011: £1,195m). 
Original equipment sales increased 9% and accounted 
for 40% of revenues (2011: 41%) with second half sales 
broadly matching the prior year record. Production-
driven aftermarket revenues increased by 13%.
 
Operating proﬁt increased by 21% to £256m (201 1: £21 1m) 
as the division beneﬁted from strong revenue growth and 
margin expansion. 
Operating margin increased to 19.2% (2011: 17.7%) 
and was ahead of expectations reﬂecting the strengthening 
aftermarket revenue mix alongside beneﬁts from procurement 
initiatives, productivity gains and effective cost control.  
In the second half of the year margins were also supported 
by targeted cost and headcount reductions in Brasil and 
Australia, the markets hardest hit by falling coal and iron 
ore prices, with total one-off costs of £4m incurred in the 
year (2011: £1m).
>>
IV
III
II
I
25 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Materials scientists developing  
chrome irons at the Materials 
Development Technology Centre.
Harsh mining environments test processing equipment 
to its limits. Poor material selection and hydraulic design 
leads to shortened product life and loss of productivity, 
often directly affecting the customer’s bottom line. 
Improving the wear life of materials 
is a daily focus at Weir Minerals 
Technology Centres. These R&D 
centres focus on extending 
customer productivity by creating 
new materials such as wear 
resistant alloys and elastomers. 
They also strive to develop the 
deepest technical understanding 
in the market of the factors that 
affect material wear. 
At the heart of many Weir Minerals’ 
products are High Chrome White 
Irons – twice as hard as stainless 
steel with many times the wear 
resistance in abrasive mining 
applications. At our Materials 
Development Technology Centre  
in Sydney, Australia, one of the 
world’s foremost chrome-iron 
materials scientists is leading the 
development of a new ultra-wear 
resistant alloy alongside other 
leading experts. 
 
Our scientists have found new 
ways to incorporate carbides 
significantly harder than chromium 
carbide, a breakthrough in creating 
alloys with substantially improved 
wear resistance. And we’re also 
addressing the one Achilles heel  
of chrome irons – their brittleness – 
by developing a process to create 
material that has greater ductility 
than ever before. This creates  
the possibility of using truly wear 
resistant alloys in applications that 
traditionally required a compromise 
between wear resistance and 
toughness. This research work 
directly supports the Group’s goal 
of lowering customers’ total cost  
of ownership.
Other recent innovations include 
the development of A238, which is 
a member of the hyperchrome alloy 
family. Designed specifically for the 
Canadian oil sands, this new alloy 
has already been successfully 
trialled in an aggressive application 
in one of the world’s harshest 
mining environments.
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Material matters
Operational Review
Weir Minerals continued
WHEN A DAY’S LOST
PRODUCTION COSTS
MILLIONS OF POUNDS,
MA TERIAL MA TTERS
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2012 256
2011 211
2010 174
2012 1,334
2011 1,195
2010 894
Investment
The division has invested throughout 2012 in value chain 
development with the focus on enhancing production 
capacity and aligning global capability to customer needs 
and divisional growth plans. Capital expenditure was 
£50m (2011: £49m) as investment was made in foundry 
and wear resistant lining production, as well as expansion 
of the leading global sales and service footprint. Research 
and development spend increased by 22% to £13m as  
the division continued to develop its materials technology 
positions and supported collaborative innovation efforts 
across the Group. 
In Chile, foundry expansion added 25% extra capacity  
to capture growth opportunities in South American 
markets in core products and wear resistant linings.  
In Europe, an extension of the UK foundry operation  
is newly complete, with the installation of a fast-loop 
employing hi-tech manufacturing processes adding 
around 15–20% additional production capacity to 
support the broader product portfolio and global 
demand. In Malaysia, agreement was reached to  
acquire a low cost foundry to support demand in 
Asia-Paciﬁc while planning advanced for further 
investment in North American foundry capacity. 
Investment in the organic growth of a screens range  
and screen media has continued, with expansion  
of a screens design centre in South Africa. In India,  
the local design and production of mechanical seals 
commenced, providing a valuable low cost product 
source for the division. 
There were new service centres added to the Minerals 
service footprint during 2012 in the US, South Africa, 
Russia, Scandinavia, Spain, Turkey, the Netherlands, 
Colombia and Australia, extending opportunities to 
better support customers and provide ancillary products 
and services.
 
Weir Minerals has also added around 250 employees 
during the year to support growth plans. 
Outlook
Weir Minerals remains well positioned to beneﬁt from  
the strong long term market fundamentals in mining and 
minerals processing, underpinned by urbanisation in 
emerging markets and their demand for raw materials. 
This ongoing demand, coupled with declining ore 
grades, supports continued substantial investment 
above historic levels by miners over the coming years, 
although the medium term nature of capital investment 
may increasingly focus on brownﬁeld and production 
optimisation projects with absolute industry capital 
expenditure levels expected to remain above 2010 levels. 
Global ore production is expected to grow by over 3% 
per annum through to 2015, supporting aftermarket 
products and services growth.
In 2013 we expect mining capex to decline relative to 
2012 but remain at levels supportive of the continued 
expansion of the installed base. While fewer greenﬁeld 
projects are expected to reach order point compared to 
the run rate in the ﬁrst half of 2012, we expect a number 
of brownﬁeld expansions as miners focus on maximising 
returns from existing production assets. With the order 
mix continuing to shift towards aftermarket products  
and services, market forecasts of positive ore production 
volume growth and a continuing focus on increasing  
our market share of ancillary products and services 
mean that we anticipate good growth in shorter cycle 
aftermarket orders. Together with delivery of a strong 
opening order book, this is expected to result in higher 
2013 revenues and operating proﬁts. After a stronger 
than expected second half 2012 margin performance, 
operating margins are expected to be at a broadly similar 
level to 2012 as the business balances the beneﬁts from 
the growing aftermarket mix alongside sensible cost 
control and continued investment in its growth plans.
Key priorities in 2013:
Develop global foundry capacity to meet
aftermarket demand
 
Invest in comminution process knowledge and
materials wear technology 
 
Reduce lead times and working capital through
global supply chain initiatives 
 
Continue development of Minerals and Oil & 
Gas product portfolios through collaboration 
and innovation 
 
Revenue
£1 ,334m
+1 2%
Operating proﬁt
£256m
+21 %
2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV
III
II
I
27 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Operational Review
Weir Oil & Gas
Steve Noon, Divisional Managing Director
The completed integration of Seaboard diversiﬁes  
the division’s exposure within the upstream sector and 
Novatech enhances the aftermarket offering delivered  
by Weir Oil & Gas through a growing, market-leading 
service network. Mathena, Inc, acquired at the end of  
the calendar year, extends the pressure control capability 
to the drilling phase of the well lifecycle, enabling the 
division to provide drilling, completion and production 
solutions and to beneﬁt from the technology requirements 
of increasing environmental and safety regulation. 
Key priorities and progress in 2012 
Delivering on capacity expansion
 
 – Expanded ﬂow production capacity in the US and 
Canada, with aligned investment in broadening and 
deepening the North American service offering.
 – Completed rapid response manufacturing centre in 
Dubai and built a dedicated facility in Abu Dhabi to meet 
expected demand growth in tubular repairs and valves.
 – Opened API and ISO accredited service facility in 
Basra to cater for the growing oilﬁeld equipment 
market needs of international oil companies in Iraq.  
Acquisition integration and effectively capturing
synergy opportunities
 
– Integration activities completed on schedule for 
Seaboard and Novatech, with Seaboard’s North 
American and international growth opportunities 
validated and detailed action plans in place. 
New product development
  
 – Launched ﬁve new products for upstream markets, 
developed by the Oil & Gas Forum, focused on meeting 
customer demand for longer life products in shale 
applications, including the Stampede swellable packer 
and SPM Duralast ﬂuid end.
 – Broadened pressure control portfolio with the 
development by Weir Oil & Gas Dubai of a DNV 
certiﬁed manifold for major oilﬁeld service customers. 
 – Successful launch of bundled aftermarket offering, 
reducing operational complexity for customers.  
Completion of downstream restructuring
  
 – Production of all overhung and single stage vertical 
pumps underway at fully operational Polish value 
engineering centre.
 – Low cost supply chain established.
 
The division continued to successfully 
pursue its strategic objectives in 2012 
despite challenging pressure-pumping 
market conditions. 
Order input
£677m
-22%
Operating proﬁt
£21 1 m
+1 4 %
Revenue
£844m
+13%
28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Review of the year Geographic input breakdown
North America 72%
Middle East/Africa 11%
Asia-Paciﬁc 3%
South America 2%
Australia 1%
Europe 11%
Market input breakdown
Oil & Gas 99%
Industrial 1%
Market review
In North American pressure-pumping markets, the dual 
effects of US natural gas prices falling below economic 
incentive levels and relatively high, stable oil prices 
resulted in a shift of drilling and completion activity from 
dry gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations. Over the 
year, US horizontal gas-directed rig count declined by 
43% while horizontal oil and liquids rig count increased  
by around 28% with total US land rig count falling by 13%. 
A decline was seen in customer activity over the ﬁnal 
quarter of the year as 2012 drilling and completion 
budgets were exhausted. 
Advances in technology continue to reduce the time 
required to drill and complete a well, with the number  
of wells drilled outstripping the movement in average rig 
count, supporting demand for pressure control equipment 
providers. In pressure-pumping, analysts estimate that 
frac equipment utilisation rates had fallen to around  
75% by the end of 2012
1
 with total North American frac 
demand of around 13 million horsepower at the end of 
2012 at similar levels to H1 2011. 
Aftermarket activity was also impacted, with overstocking 
of ﬂuid ends in anticipation of higher activity and lower 
equipment utilisation and service intensity, leading to 
pricing pressure in speciﬁc product categories. Demand  
in international pressure-pumping markets grew strongly 
during the year with 38% growth in the frac ﬂeet outside 
North America to 4.4m
1
 horsepower. 
Middle East services markets grew strongly, with 
increased Saudi production and the ongoing rebuilding 
of Iraqi oilﬁeld infrastructure. In downstream markets, 
pricing pressure in original equipment markets began  
to ease with good market opportunities in the FPSO 
(Floating Production, Storage and Ofﬂoading) sector.
Operational performance
The division has delivered a resilient ﬁnancial 
performance, maintaining overall margins despite fast 
changing market conditions. In a challenging North 
American upstream environment, operational capability 
and capacity was rapidly aligned to market needs.  
The division grew its market share in certain product 
segments despite lower overall activity levels, and the 
integrations of the Seaboard and Novatech acquisitions 
were completed, with plans developed to internationalise 
both businesses and to enter the frac ﬂowback market. 
Weir’s pressure-pumping-focused operations (SPM, 
Mesa and Novatech) responded quickly to changing 
market conditions by reducing headcount, in-sourcing 
machining and implementing lean initiatives and cost 
reduction programmes. Total annualised cost savings 
from these initiatives were c.US$25m. The expanded 
aftermarket pressure-pumping portfolio has enabled  
the successful bundling of SPM, Mesa and Novatech 
products for customers, with annual commitments 
secured from a number of large service companies. 
Outside North America, international opportunities 
continue to progress, with like for like upstream 
international input growing by over a third during the 
year. Good progress was made by the Middle East 
Service operations with the award of a number of 
signiﬁcant contracts including a multi-million pound 
rotating equipment maintenance contract for the 
refurbishment of the Rumaila oilﬁeld in Iraq. Downstream 
operations delivered a much improved performance  
on last year due to the ﬁrst beneﬁts of the completed 
restructuring of the operations. 
Order input at £677m (2011: £870m) was 22% lower and 
41% lower like for like due to weakness in pressure-pumping 
markets. Original equipment input fell 44% and 66% like 
for like as pressure-pumping demand fell sharply as a result 
of frac pump overcapacity. Aftermarket input was up 5% 
but down 12% like for like with strong growth in Services 
offset by lower aftermarket pressure-pumping orders. 
Like for like upstream business input (SPM and Mesa)  
fell 51% to £359m (US$569m), with quarterly order levels 
broadly ﬂat since the second quarter against the background 
of a declining rig count. A total of US$139m of 2011 orders 
were cancelled in the year and reﬂected as an opening 
orderbook adjustment. Input from Seaboard was up on 
the equivalent pre-acquisition period although growth 
moderated in the second half as market activity levels fell. 
Strong input growth was achieved at downstream and 
Service operations, with Middle East Services beneﬁting 
from an enhanced operational presence and increased 
activity levels in Saudi Arabia and Iraq. Improving 
conditions in downstream markets contributed to higher 
original equipment orders including a strategic contract  
in the FPSO market.
Revenue increased 13% to £844m (2011: £747m), but 
was down 10% like for like with equivalent upstream 
revenues of £511m (US$810m) (2011: US$982m) in line 
with expectations. Seaboard revenues increased 10%  
on the pre-acquisition period while Novatech revenues 
declined, reﬂecting pressure-pumping market conditions. 
Service and downstream revenues grew by 25%. 
Operating proﬁt including joint ventures increased by 
14% to £211m (2011: £185m) but fell 12% on a like for like 
basis. Seaboard and Novatech contributed £45m before 
integration costs of £3m (2011 acquisition and integration 
costs: £5m), 10% higher than the equivalent pre-acquisition 
period. Total one-off costs of £4m were incurred in the  
year (2011: £11m). Good proﬁt progression at Service 
operations and a positive downstream proﬁt performance 
also contributed. 
 
1. Source: Pac West February 2013.
IV
III
II
I
29 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 When equipment used in the upstream  
oil and gas markets needs to be replaced,  
it has to happen quickly or it affects 
the customer’s bottom line. 
Through its focus on equipment used for 
critical applications, Weir understands  
this better than most. We don’t simply 
manufacture the equipment, we ensure  
by working in partnership with customers 
that it can enhance the application and we 
provide service and engineering expertise 
to optimise performance throughout the 
life of the installed base of equipment.  
The aim is to lower operational cost and 
complexity for our customers. 
Weir Oil & Gas has built the leading 
service presence in North American  
shale plays, recognising that customer 
proximity is critical in an industry where 
downtime can cost millions. During 2012, 
the development of a focused aftermarket 
pressure-pumping team has taken the full 
offering of SPM, Novatech and Mesa to 
market through one dedicated regional 
contact. This provides customers with  
the best local response and range of 
aftermarket products and services 
delivered through the largest service  
and sales network in the North American 
market. By leveraging the large installed 
base of SPM pumps and incorporating 
Novatech and Mesa into the pressure-
pumping service network, the team has 
enjoyed success by ‘bundling’ pump 
expendables from the full aftermarket 
product portfolio and growing sales  
at the point of use. The ongoing 
development of the Weir business model 
in upstream markets has enabled us to 
gain market share in tough conditions, 
grow aftermarket revenues and, most 
importantly, improve our agility in 
responding to customer demands.
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Cradle to grave asset 
management
Operational Review
Weir Oil & Gas continued
CRADLE TO GRAVE 
ASSET MANAGEMENT
DEVELOPING A LEADING
BUSINESS MODEL IN 
THE ‘NEED IT NOW’
UPSTREAM MARKETS
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2012 211
2011 185
2010 114
2012 844
2011 747
2010 449
Operating margin of 25.0% (2011: 24.8%) increased  
year on year, with upstream margins resilient despite 
challenging pressure-pumping markets, an improved 
performance in downstream and Service businesses, 
and lower one-off costs. On a like for like basis, margins 
of 25.1% were down 40bps and in line with expectations. 
The division reacted quickly to the changing pressure-
pumping market conditions by introducing a range  
of efﬁciency and cost reduction measures to preserve 
proﬁtability. Underlying margins at Seaboard and 
Novatech were in line with the divisional average, 
representing a 180bps improvement on the equivalent 
pre-acquisition period. 
Investment
Weir Oil & Gas supported its growth plans during 2012 
with capital expenditure of £52m (2011: £32m). Weir  
SPM invested in ﬂow capacity expansion and the division 
also invested in integration projects at Seaboard and 
Novatech. In response to the lower demand environment 
in North America, the previously announced US$75m 
expansion of Weir SPM was reduced to less than US$60m. 
The division continued to invest in extending its 
manufacturing and service footprint, completing rapid 
response manufacturing centres in Canada and Dubai 
and opening new service centres in Williston, North 
Dakota; Pleasanton, Texas; Singapore; and Basra, Iraq. 
Overall spending on research and development increased 
by 46% to £8m as the division seeks to maintain the strong 
new product development momentum established in 2012. 
Employees have been added across the division at those 
businesses with strongest opportunities for growth, 
although headcount at the pressure-pumping focused 
operations was reduced in response to the lower 
demand environment. The division continues to attract 
quality people from the oil and gas industry as well as 
developing and promoting internal talent. Leadership 
development, business management and rotational 
graduate programmes have effectively supported the 
talent pipeline, matching skills needs to growth plans.
Outlook
The medium term outlook for global pressure-pumping and 
pressure control markets remains positive, with continued 
investment in North American shale plays by national and 
international oil companies. A relatively high and stable oil 
price should support continuing North American production 
increases as the US pursues energy independence. Low 
US gas prices are expected to support increased US  
gas ﬁred power and industrial demand as US businesses 
beneﬁt from the competitiveness of lower energy input 
costs. International shale development is expected to 
continue to grow, with Russia, China, Argentina, North 
Africa, Saudi Arabia and Australia becoming larger markets 
over the next two to three years. 
Pressure-pumping markets are expected to remain 
competitive in 2013 and our pressure-pumping business 
unit (SPM, Mesa and Novatech) entered the year with a 
considerably lower orderbook than the prior year period. 
Minimal levels of original equipment capex are expected 
throughout 2013 with material overcapacity continuing  
to affect frac pump demand. With low single digit rig 
count growth forecast, aftermarket input is expected  
to progressively increase as customers work through 
inventory levels.
In pressure control, Seaboard is expected to make  
good progress, as the business seeks to beneﬁt from the 
organic growth opportunities available in frac rental, frac 
ﬂowback and international markets. Additional geographic 
growth opportunities also exist for Mathena’s product 
range through the division’s leading service network. 
At the Middle East Services businesses Iraqi and Saudi 
Arabian markets are expected to be particularly strong.  
A continuation of the improved downstream performance 
is forecast.
In total, divisional revenues including Mathena are 
expected to be slightly lower year on year with underlying 
operating margins broadly in line with 2012 as exposure 
to pressure-pumping falls to around 50% of divisional 
revenues (c.15% of Group revenues). 
Key priorities in 2013
Develop aftermarket business model and 
bundling strategy in pressure-pumping unit
  
Continue momentum in new product development 
  
Capture Seaboard domestic and international
growth opportunities 
  
Capitalise on growth opportunities in
Saudi Arabia and Iraq 
 
Integrate and realise the beneﬁts expected 
from the Mathena acquisition 
 
Enhance pressure control offering 
in North American upstream markets 
 
Increase supply chain ﬂexibility and reduce 
working capital 
 
Revenue
£844m
+13%
Operating proﬁt
£21 1 m
+1 4 %
2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV
III
II
I
31 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Key priorities and progress in 2012
Improving cost competitiveness through increased
product localisation in India, South Korea and China
  
 – Selected valve product transfers to India and China  
well underway.
 – South Korean input more than doubled.
 – Over 30% of valve output sourced from low  
cost countries. 
Capitalising on a broader product range and
increased routes to market through a fully
integrated sales structure
 
 – Overall input up 18%.
 – Emerging market sales hub input up 73%.
 – Consistent customer relationship management 
system established, enhancing communication, 
collaboration and sales and operational planning. 
Expanding presence in oil and gas end markets
 
 – Oil and gas market revenues up 28%.
 – Joint marketing initiatives with Weir Oil & Gas 
established.  
Developing competitive advantage through 
product innovation
 
 – Input from new product initiatives more than doubled.
 – Order secured for design, manufacture and 
qualiﬁcation of pressure relief valves for the world’s 
ﬁrst fourth generation nuclear reactor in China.
 – Differentiated design developed in nuclear severe 
service and control and choke valve ranges.
 – A new range of steam safety valves, STARSTEAM, 
developed for overpressure protection of power boilers. 
 
Market review
Nuclear new build activity in the US and Europe 
remained on hold as post-Fukushima safety reviews 
concluded, with activity throughout the year centred on 
Asia-Paciﬁc, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, where 
Korean EPCs won a number of major projects. Nuclear 
maintenance and repair markets were positive in the  
US and the UK, which, together with increased CCGT 
(Combined Cycle Gas Turbine) new build activity in North 
America, provided some mitigation against lower nuclear 
new build activity. In North America, low economic 
growth and power prices led to project cancellations and 
difﬁcult trading conditions in general industrial, power 
and hydro markets although a number of hydro project 
opportunities emerged towards the end of the year. 
While European renewables markets continued to be 
subdued, the division gained traction towards the end  
of the year in international projects. 
Operational Review
Weir Power & Industrial
Kevin Spencer, Divisional Managing Director
Despite depressed markets in 2012,  
Weir Power & Industrial demonstrated 
good progress during the year, as 
momentum built behind the division’s 
recent strategic initiatives. 
Order input
£361 m
+18%
Operating proﬁt
£3 1 m
+20%
Revenue
£323m
+7%
32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Review of the year Geographic input breakdown
North America 36%
Europe 30%
Middle East/Africa 6%
South America 1%
Asia-Paciﬁc 27%
Market input breakdown
Power 60%
Industrial 14%
Other 12%
Minerals 2%
Oil & Gas 12%
Operational performance
The strategic focus of the division during 2012 has been 
driving input and orderbook growth, with restructuring  
of the valves businesses undertaken in order to develop 
a strong and uniﬁed global platform for the valves portfolio. 
At the same time, initiatives to enhance operational 
performance and improve margins have gained momentum, 
with further leverage of the low cost supply chain and 
additional supply chain actions underway across the 
manufacturing operations. 
Order input increased by 18% to £361m (2011: £306m) 
with strong growth from valves and service operations. 
Nuclear input of £72m (2011: £71m) included a multi-
million pound project award from a Korean EPC for 
nuclear service control valves in new build reactors in  
the Middle East. Overall, control valve orders more than 
doubled, beneﬁting from momentum in strategic growth 
initiatives and a strong ﬁrst full year performance by  
Weir International. Low levels of activity in North America 
affected the US commercial valve business in the second 
half of the year while Weir American Hydro secured a 
number of multi-million dollar orders from major North 
American power companies for rehabilitation, turbine 
runner replacement and related ﬁeld service work, 
including the Nine Mile Dam hydro project towards the 
end of the period. European input was up year on year 
despite difﬁcult economic conditions in the eurozone. 
Aftermarket input of £168m (2011: £146m) beneﬁted from 
valve and service opportunities. The proportion of orders 
from power markets was 60% (2011: 57%), with input 
from the oil and gas market growing by 12% year on 
year. Input from the Middle East, Africa and Asia 
increased by over 30%. 
Revenue increased by 7% to £323m (2011: £301m)  
with a strong full year contribution from Weir International 
in South Korea. Like for like revenues were up 5% with 
revenues from emerging markets increasing by 11% as 
the division beneﬁts from its increased routes to market.
Operating proﬁt increased by 20% to £31m (2011: 
£26m), 1% like for like, beneﬁting from strong revenue 
growth in the valve operations and a ﬁrst full year 
contribution from Weir International. 
Operating margin increased to 9.7% (2011: 8.7%) 
beneﬁting from measures to improve cost 
competitiveness alongside a reduction in one-off  
costs, which totalled £1m (2011: £5m). 
Investment
Capital expenditure of £19m (2011: £13m) included  
a new Montreal service centre for North American  
hydro operations and the consolidation in July of the US 
valve production facilities in a single facility at Ipswich, 
Massachusetts supporting the creation of a uniﬁed 
global valves platform. The opening of a sales ofﬁce  
in Seoul, South Korea provides additional traction within 
the Asia-Paciﬁc region for our control valve, service and 
speciality pump businesses. Investment in research and 
development was £2m.
Outlook
Global macro-economic concerns continue to slow  
the recovery of general industrial markets with an 
expected improvement in global power markets leading 
to increased service and aftermarket demand. Several 
major Korean nuclear and conventional domestic power 
plant projects are proceeding in 2013 and Korean EPCs 
continue to successfully capture global opportunities. 
Weir is well positioned to beneﬁt through its global 
presence and its broadened valve range, including good 
control valve opportunities. As the business continues  
to expand internationally we see an increasing range of 
opportunities for the renewables operations. The division 
also expects to beneﬁt from targeting the aftermarket 
opportunities of the large valve installed base outside 
North America. Strategic initiatives are expected  
to support increased organic growth, particularly  
in Asia-Paciﬁc and the oil and gas sector. 
The ﬁnancial performance in 2013 is expected to beneﬁt 
from a strong opening orderbook, steadily improving 
power markets, continuing momentum in strategic 
initiatives and ongoing operational excellence actions 
resulting in revenue and proﬁt growth with margins 
broadly in line with 2012. 
Key priorities in 2013
Embed global valve structure and drive global 
sales hub performance 
 
Further leverage valve aftermarket opportunities 
   
Develop operational capabilities to support 
higher activity levels 
 
Internationalise hydro, wind and power 
service offerings 
 
Continue expansion in oil and gas markets 
 
Continue new product development and 
product extension 
  
>>
IV
III
II
I
33 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 DESIGNED IN THE UK. 
BUIL T AND DELIVERED 
BY WEIR’S GLOBAL 
CAPABILITY
Operational Review
Weir Power & Industrial continued
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Global capability
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2012 31
2011 26
2010 26
2012 323
2011 301
2010 241
Revenue
£323m
+7%
Operating proﬁt
£3 1 m
+20%
As drilling for oil ventures into 
deeper waters and power station 
technology becomes more efﬁcient, 
operating pressures rise. 
Weir’s severe service control valves 
cope with the demands placed  
on equipment by the high pressure 
drops required to reach the correct 
processing conditions in power 
stations and oil and gas drilling. 
The X-Stream trim for severe service 
valves was launched in late 2011. 
Designed to provide greater control 
of pressure drops whilst reducing 
noise and erosion, the process of 
taking this innovation to market 
demonstrates the value of Weir’s 
global capability. 
Product development was undertaken 
at the division’s UK valve facility in 
Elland, with sourcing of material and 
manufacturing methods drawn from 
around our global operations. Flow 
testing took place on a custom-
designed rig in the engineering 
laboratory of the University of 
Huddersfield with the outcome 
validating the product’s position  
in the high value, high end technical 
performance control valve segment.
The product has been launched 
through the division’s recently 
established global sales hubs, with 
more than 100 orders received for 
installations worldwide, including in 
North and South America, Europe, 
the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.  
A customer-focused innovation 
delivered through global expertise. 
 
The X-Stream trim
2011 and 2010 restated at 2012 average exchange rates.
IV
III
II
I
35 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 This result demonstrates the strength of our operating 
model and the diverse markets and geographies in which 
we operate with the impact of challenges in North American 
Oil & Gas operations offset by strength in Minerals and the 
contributions from our recent acquisitions. 
Order input at £2,397m on a constant currency basis 
decreased 2% and was 9% lower on a like for like basis 
(excluding the impact of acquisitions and transaction and 
integration costs). Original equipment orders were down 
13% (down 23% like for like) with the impact of North 
American pressure-pumping market weakness partly 
offset by growth in most key Minerals markets and very 
good input growth at Power & Industrial. Aftermarket 
orders were up 9% (up 4% like for like) with double digit 
increases in Minerals and Power & Industrial. Aftermarket 
orders represented 57% of overall input (2011: 52%). 
Minerals order input for 2012 was £1,322m, an increase  
of 7% on 2011, both in constant currency and like for like. 
Input in Oil & Gas of £677m was 22% down on 2011 
(down 41% like for like) with the performance of our recent 
acquisitions, Seaboard and Novatech, broadly in line  
with our expectations. Finally, input in Power & Industrial 
showed strong growth from valves and service operations, 
reporting an overall 18% increase to £361m (up 13% like 
for like, excluding the impact of Weir International). 
BUILDING ON OUR
RECORD FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
Financial Review
Jon Stanton
The Group performed strongly over 2012, despite 
the uncertain macro-economic environment, 
generating an operating proﬁt (before exceptional 
items and intangibles amortisation) of £486m,  
an increase of 18% on the previous year. 
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 £300m
£400m
£500m
295
2010
396
2011
443
2012
18%
19%
20%
18.9
2010
18.0
2011
19.1
2012
1. Continuing operations excluding exceptional items & intangibles amortisation.
Operating margins
1
 (%)
19. 1 % 
+1 10bps
Proﬁt before tax
1
 (£m)
£443m 
+1 2%
Revenue grew by 12% to £2,538m on a constant 
currency basis, up 4% like for like. Original equipment 
represented 45% with aftermarket revenues accounting 
for 55%, a 200 basis point increase over the prior year. 
Emerging markets revenues increased by 23% with the 
proportion of total revenues coming from these markets 
increasing to 37% (2011: 34%). Minerals revenues  
were 12% higher at £1,334m (2011: £1,195m) on both  
a constant currency and like for like basis. Oil & Gas 
revenues, including the contribution from Seaboard and 
Novatech, increased by 13% to £844m but were down 
10% like for like with equivalent upstream revenues  
of £511m (US$810m) (2011: US$982m) in line with 
expectations. Power & Industrial revenues grew from 
£301m in 2011 to £323m in 2012, an increase of 7% (up 
5% like for like). Together, the acquisitions made in 2011 
and 2012 (Weir International, Seaboard and Novatech) 
contributed £182m of revenue against a 2011 equivalent 
proforma ﬁgure of £172m. Revenues from other Group 
companies (LGE Process) were £37.7m in the year  
(2011: £26.3m).
Operating proﬁt from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation increased 
by 18% to £485.6m (2011: £412.7m) after a net negative 
currency translation impact of circa £1m. The increase  
in underlying performance was driven by strong revenue 
growth and margin expansion in Minerals, a positive 
contribution from acquisitions and reduced one-off costs, 
offset partly by second half weakness in upstream Oil & 
Gas operations. One-off costs of £9.3m were incurred in 
the period (2011: £16.6m) of which £4.0m (2011: £8.8m) 
related to acquisition transaction and integration costs. 
The 2011 and 2012 acquisitions contributed £47.5m  
to operating proﬁt against a 2011 equivalent proforma 
contribution of £41.2m, excluding transaction and 
integration costs. The proﬁt contribution from other  
Group companies was £2.5m (2011: £3.0m) while central 
costs were £14.9m (2011: £14.1m), a modest increase 
reﬂecting the loss of rental income of circa £2m following 
disposal of the Cathcart property in 2011 offset by cost 
management initiatives.
Operating margin (also from continuing operations 
before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation)  
was 19.1%, an increase of 110 basis points on the prior 
year (2011: 18.0% and 18.1% on a constant currency 
basis), reﬂecting a strong second half improvement in 
Minerals and continued margin resilience in Oil & Gas.  
On a like for like basis, the operating margin was 18.8% 
(2011: 18.5%). On a constant currency basis, the Minerals 
divisional operating margin was 19.2% (2011: 17.7%), 
ahead of expectations reﬂecting the strengthening 
aftermarket revenue mix alongside beneﬁts from 
procurement initiatives, productivity gains and effective 
cost control. The Oil & Gas operating margin was 25.0% 
(2011: 24.8% constant currency) with upstream margins 
resilient despite challenging markets, an improved 
performance in downstream and service businesses and 
lower one-off costs. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, 
the Oil & Gas divisional margin was 25.1% (2011: 25.5%). 
The operating margin in Power & Industrial was 9.7% 
(2011: 8.7% constant currency) and, excluding the impact 
of acquisitions, was 9.3% (2011: 9.7%). 
Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortisation (‘EBITDA’)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and investment property in the year was 
£49.4m (2011: £37.7m) resulting in operating proﬁt from 
continuing operations before depreciation and intangibles 
amortisation of £535.0m (2011: £450.4m).
Exceptional items and intangibles amortisation
Total Group operating proﬁt for the year of £469.1m  
(2011 restated for fair value acquisition accounting: 
£407.9m) includes an exceptional credit of £20.2m  
(2011: £19.0m) and intangibles amortisation of £36.7m 
(2011 restated: £23.8m). The exceptional credit in the 
current year comprises the net of three items, the largest 
of which is the gain on sale of LGE Process of £30.5m 
which was completed on 28 December 2012. Offsetting 
this are (i) a charge of £4.5m representing the uplift  
of inventory to net realisable value on acquisition being 
charged against proﬁts as the inventory is sold (as recorded 
at the half year); and (ii) an uplift of £5.8m to the net present 
value of contingent consideration payable in respect of the 
acquisition of Weir International in light of updated ﬁnancial 
projections for the business. The exceptional credit of 
£19.0m in the prior year represented a past service gain 
recognised under IAS19 on the change to providing 
CPI-linked instead of RPI-linked beneﬁts on the Group’s 
UK pension plans. Intangibles amortisation has increased 
year on year as a direct result of the recent acquisitions.
Net ﬁnance costs
Net ﬁnance costs were £45.1m in total (2011: £17.1m)  
due to the increase in net debt following the Seaboard 
and Novatech acquisitions and the related US private 
placement issue. 
IV
III
II
I
37 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The total net ﬁnance charge comprises four components, 
the most signiﬁcant of which is the interest cost of 
£46.5m (2011: £19.4m) on the Group’s net borrowings 
(including amounts in relation to derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments). The balance comprises ﬁnance income  
of £5.2m (2011: £4.3m), a £1.2m charge (2011: £1.3m 
charge) in relation to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
plans and an exceptional cost of £2.6m (2011: £0.7m) 
being the unwinding of the discount on the contingent 
consideration liability for the Weir International acquisition 
in 2011. This cost has increased on the prior year for two 
reasons: ﬁrstly, the prior year comparative related to the 
six month period post acquisition compared to the full 
year in 2012; and secondly, the contingent consideration 
payable has been reassessed in the current year as 
noted above, this increasing the level of discount unwind 
recorded. The total contingent consideration recorded 
on the balance sheet in respect of all acquisitions  
is £24.8m (2011: £24.6m), the marginal increase year  
on year being the net of the increase relating to Weir 
International and the payment of £8.4m.
Net ﬁnance costs (excluding retirement beneﬁt  
related amounts and exceptional items) were covered  
11.8 times by operating proﬁt from continuing operations 
(before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation) 
(2011: 27.3 times). 
 
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations but before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation increased 
by 12% to £443.1m (2011: £396.3m) and 4% on a like  
for like basis. Reported proﬁt before tax from continuing 
operations increased by 8% to £424.0m (2011 restated: 
£390.8m) after intangibles amortisation of £36.7m  
(2011 restated: £23.8m) and the net exceptional credit  
of £20.2m (2011: £19.0m).
The tax charge for the year of £124.2m (2011: £114.2m) 
on proﬁt before tax from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of 
£443.1m (2011: £396.3m) represents an underlying 
effective tax rate of 28.0% (2011: 28.8%), reﬂecting a 
reduction in US state taxes as a result of the changing 
proﬁle of our business within the US and the reduction  
of the rate of UK corporation tax. The Group’s policy  
with regard to tax matters is discussed in a later  
section of this report.
Discontinued operations
The income statement for 2012 includes income  
from discontinued operations of £3.3m (2011: £19.9m) 
representing the release of unutilised provisions in relation 
to previous disposals on expiration of the tax warranty 
periods. This amount was reported in the ﬁrst half of  
the year. The income from discontinued operations of 
£19.9m in the prior year related to the net gain on disposal 
of the former Weir Pumps facility at Cathcart, Glasgow to Clyde 
Union, subsequently acquired by SPX Clyde UK Limited.
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation increased 
by 12% to 150.1p (2011: 133.6p). Reported earnings  
per share including exceptional items, intangibles 
amortisation and proﬁt from discontinued operations  
was 148.6p (2011 restated: 141.2p). The weighted 
average number of shares in issue increased to 212.2m 
(2011: 211.2m).
 
Cash ﬂows 
Cash generated by operations before working capital 
movements increased by 13% to £515.5m (2011: £457 .9m). 
Working capital outﬂows of £116.9m (2011: £155.3m) 
were driven by higher than expected inventory levels  
and a subsequent reduction in payables due to lower 
materials purchases in upstream Oil & Gas, partly offset 
by an overall improvement in receivables. The initial 
beneﬁts of a number of supply chain initiatives resulted  
in second half working capital inﬂows of around £10m. 
Net cash generated from operations increased by 32% 
from £302.6m to £398.6m representing an EBITDA  
to cash conversion ratio of 75% (2011: 67%).
Net capital expenditure increased from £91.4m in 2011  
to £116.3m in 2012 principally to add capacity in the 
Minerals division and investment in expanded ﬂow 
capacity in SPM. The settlement of ﬁnancing derivatives 
resulted in a net cash outﬂow of £11.0m (2011: £10.9m). 
Additional pension contributions of £7.5m (2011: £6.6m) 
were paid in the period in respect of agreed special 
contributions to the UK schemes. The year on year 
increase is a result of increased special contributions  
to the executive scheme being agreed during the year. 
Special contributions in 2013 will be £12.1m, falling to 
£9.6m in 2014 and thereafter following completion of the 
triennial funding valuation of the main UK staff scheme  
in December 2012. 
Free cash ﬂow from continuing operations was £62.3m 
(2011: £28.9m). Outﬂows in respect of acquisitions were 
£125.2m with cash generation from disposals of £22.9m 
giving a year end net debt of £688.9m (2011: £673.2m, 
£679m constant currency). On a reported basis, the ratio 
of net debt to EBITDA was 1.3 times and on a proforma 
basis including the Mathena acquisition was 1.5 times. 
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’)
The Group’s ROCE of 29.1% for 2012 on a like for like 
basis (excluding Seaboard and Novatech) was broadly  
in line with the prior year (2011: 29.2%).
Financial Review continued
Jon Stanton
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 27%
28%
29%
30%
27.0
2010
29.2
2011
29.1
2012
£20m
£40m
£60m
£80m
2010 2011 2012
£100m
79.9
28.9
62.3
Dividends
The Board is recommending a 15% increase in the full 
year dividend, the 29th consecutive year of dividend 
growth, with a ﬁnal dividend of 30.0p (2011: 25.8p) making 
a total of 38.0p for the year (2011: 33.0p). Dividend cover 
(being the ratio of earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation to dividend per share) of 4.0 times is in line 
with 2011. If approved, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on  
31 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on 3 May 
2013. The Board also plans a further double digit increase 
in the full year dividend in 2013.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 22 February 2012, the Group completed the acquisition 
of Novatech LLC for an equivalent enterprise value of 
£111m (US$176m). This business has been successfully 
integrated into the Oil & Gas division and is performing  
in line with expectations given current upstream market 
conditions. The post-acquisition trading of Novatech is 
included in these results with 2012 also representing the 
ﬁrst ﬁnancial year to include a contribution from Seaboard, 
the acquisition of that business having completed at the 
end of 2011.
On 28 December 2012, the Group completed the disposal 
of LGE Process to Babcock International Group plc for an 
enterprise value of £23m.
Finally, on 20 December 2012, the Group announced its 
agreement to acquire Mathena, Inc a leading provider of 
pressure control rental equipment and services for onshore 
oil and gas drilling applications, for an initial consideration 
of US$240m with a maximum further payment of US$145m 
based on achievement of proﬁt targets. This acquisition 
was completed on 31 December 2012 and accordingly 
there is no impact on these ﬁnancial statements.
 
Tax policy
The Group’s strategic tax objectives are to:
 – comply with all applicable tax laws and regulations, 
including the timely submission of all tax returns and 
tax payments; and
 – develop and maintain strong working relationships with 
local tax authorities and undertake all dealings with tax 
authorities in a professional and timely manner.
The Group has strong controls and clear policies and 
procedures covering tax, which must be followed by all 
ﬁnance personnel. We take a conservative approach to  
all tax planning with the overarching aim of paying the right 
amount of tax at the right time in each tax jurisdiction.  
As a large multi national, we conduct our business affairs 
in a way which is efﬁcient from a tax perspective however, 
we do not undertake tax planning for its own sake. 
In terms of cash tax, the Group paid income tax of 
£104.9m in 2012 across all of its jurisdictions compared  
to £97.3m in 2011. In line with the proportion of the Group 
operating in North America, the amount of tax paid in that 
geography is the highest across the Group. Net cash tax 
paid in the UK in 2012 across corporation tax, VAT and 
payroll taxes was approximately £43m (2011: £38m).
 
Treasury management
The Group is ﬁnanced through a combination of bank 
debt, ﬁxed rate private placement notes and equity. The 
capital structure is managed centrally with the objectives 
of optimising capital efﬁciency, diversifying the investor 
base, achieving an orderly maturity of funding yet 
maintaining a good degree of ﬁnancial headroom.
The principal ﬁnancial risks faced by the Group are those 
relating to liquidity, foreign currency and credit risk. The 
Group’s treasury policies and procedures, which are 
reviewed and updated on a regular basis, seek to reduce 
these ﬁnancial risks. Within this framework, the Group 
uses ﬁnancial assets and liabilities including derivatives 
to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Funding and liquidity
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between 
continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of bank 
overdrafts, bank loans and long term ﬁxed rate notes.
On 16 February 2012, the Group made a placing of 
attractively priced long term debt with the private 
placement markets in the US, to the value of US$1bn. 
The weighted average all-in rate is 4.16% with the 
weighted average term 9.6 years. The proceeds were 
used to fund the Novatech acquisition and repay certain 
borrowing facilities, including Seaboard acquisition 
facilities. With regard to the revolving credit facilities in 
place, £148m was drawn down under these at the end of 
the year leaving an undrawn facility of £347m. In addition, 
the Group has an amortising term loan of US$300m 
(£153m at the end of the year) which matures in 2014.
All covenants were met at 28 December 2012 with 
signiﬁcant headroom under each ﬁnancial ratio.
The Group held net cash balances of £384.2m at the end 
of 2012 (2011: £108.6m) representing operating balances 
held by the Group’s subsidiaries. Of this total, £313.5m was 
held in the UK (2011: £48.5m). As at 28 December 2012, 
the available funding headroom was partly in place for 
the acquisition of Mathena Inc, due to take place post 
year end. The acquisition completed as planned on  
31 December 2012 at which time required cash and debt 
resources were utilised from the available headroom.
Free Cash Flow
£62.3m
+1 16%
Return on Capital Employed
2
29. 1 %
-10bps
2. Continuing operations EBIT (excluding exceptional items and Seaboard and Novatech EBIT) divided by average net assets excluding net debt,  
pension deﬁcit (net of deferred tax asset) and Seaboard and Novatech net assets
IV
III
II
I
39 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Group has additional committed and uncommitted 
bonding facilities under which guarantees are issued  
in order to support commercial activities.
Credit management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its  
trade receivables with risk spread over a large number  
of countries and customers. There is no signiﬁcant 
concentration of credit risk. Credit worthiness checks  
are undertaken before entering into contracts with new 
customers and credit limits are set as appropriate. We also 
use trade ﬁnance instruments such as letters of credit and 
insurance to mitigate any identiﬁed risk. The Group’s 
exposure to the credit risk of ﬁnancial institutions is limited 
by the adherence to counterparty limits and by only trading 
with counterparties that have a strong credit standing 
based on ratings provided by the major agencies.
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s debt is denominated in a combination of ﬁxed 
and variable rates of interest. It is our policy to maintain  
a proportion of debt at ﬁxed rates of interest subject to the 
future outlook for the level of interest rates. As at the end 
of 2012, the proportion of the Group’s debt at ﬁxed rates 
was 71% compared to 20% as at the end of 2011 due to 
the further private placement issuance noted previously. 
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates 
for transactions undertaken in non-functional currencies  
of the operating companies concerned and the translation 
of foreign currency denominated net assets and proﬁt and 
loss items. 
All material transactional currency exposures are hedged, 
usually by means of forward contracts thereby ensuring 
certainty over revenue and costs. Subject to local exchange 
controls, foreign exchange transactions are executed by the 
central treasury function. No speculative transactions are 
undertaken. Although hedging is carried out for all material 
economic exposures, only two subsidiaries applied cash 
ﬂow hedge accounting under IAS39, one of which was LGE 
Process which was disposed of at the end of the year.
The Group manages a proportion of the potential currency 
translation exposures from US dollar denominated net 
investments through a combination of US dollar borrowing, 
forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency 
swaps. The strengthening of sterling relative to 2011 against 
most main currencies, offset by a weakening against the 
Chilean Peso, resulted in a net loss on translation of net 
assets of £46.3m, including the effect of the balance  
sheet hedging programme. The fair value of derivatives 
designated as net investment hedges at 28 December 
2012 was a liability of £0.8m (2011: £27 .6m) reﬂecting 
primarily the settlement of ﬂoating rate cross currency 
swaps during the year. 
The Group does not hedge foreign currency translation 
exposures related to proﬁt and loss items.
Further information on ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives and policies can be found in note 30  
to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Retirement beneﬁts
The Group has ﬁve deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the 
largest of these being the two UK plans. The Group has 
sought to pro-actively manage its exposure to its pension 
plans and more than half of the liabilities of the main UK 
scheme are hedged via insurance policies, providing 
signiﬁcant protection against changes in market conditions. 
Over the last year, the discount rate applied to the pension 
liabilities has decreased from 4.8% to 4.3% with RPI 
inﬂation reducing from 3.1% to 2.9%. This has resulted  
in a slight increase in the net deﬁcit in the Group’s 
retirement beneﬁt obligations from £84.7m at the end  
of 2011 to £90.4m at the end of 2012, although this 
represents a decrease of £13.9m on the position at the 
end of June. 
Net assets
Net assets at the end of 2012 were £1,310.3m, an increase 
of £192.8m on the 2011 level of £1,117.5m (restated for 
acquisition fair value accounting as explained in note 2). 
This increase is driven by the total net comprehensive 
income for the year of £260.5m less dividends paid  
of £71.7m.
Litigation
The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time  
to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which 
arise in the normal course of business. To the extent not 
already provided for, the Directors do not anticipate that 
the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either 
individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial position.
There are 917 asbestos related claims outstanding  
in the US (2011: 585) against Group companies. There 
are 25 such claims in the UK (2011: 24). All actions are 
robustly defended. 
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion & Order was ﬁled with 
the United States District Court, Southern District of  
New York dismissing the claim against the Company 
(being one of many companies targeted) relating to a  
civil action for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food 
programme which was raised in the US. Subsequently 
the Iraqi Government ﬁled notice of appeal and at the 
time of writing there has been no ruling by the Court  
on this appeal. We will continue to defend this action 
vigorously.
Financial Review continued
Jon Stanton
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Critical accounting policies
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS and the material accounting 
policies are set out on pages 89 to 95 of this report. 
There have been no signiﬁcant changes to the 
accounting policies adopted in 2012.
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management has applied certain judgements, 
assumptions and estimates. These estimates and 
assumptions are based on historical experience, 
information available at the time and other factors 
considered relevant. Those with the most signiﬁcant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial 
statements are set out below. Further judgements, 
assumptions and estimates are set out on page 89.
Intangible assets
On the acquisition of a business it is necessary to 
attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, 
provided they meet the recognition criteria. The fair 
values of these intangible assets are dependent on 
estimates of attributable future revenues, margins  
and cash ﬂows, as well as appropriate discount rates.  
In addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired 
intangible assets requires the application of judgement 
based on available information and management 
expectations at the time of recognition.
Impairment
IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing 
on any assets that show indications of impairment as 
well as annually for goodwill and other intangible assets 
with indeﬁnite lives and so not subject to amortisation. 
This testing includes exercising management judgement 
about future cash ﬂows and other events which are,  
by their nature, uncertain.
Retirement beneﬁts
The assumptions underlying the valuation of retirement 
beneﬁts assets and liabilities are important and based  
on actuarial advice. Changes in these assumptions  
could have a material impact on the measurement  
of the Group’s retirement beneﬁt obligations.
Taxation
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation  
of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing  
of future taxable income. Given the wide range of 
international business relationships and the long  
term nature and complexity of existing contractual 
arrangements, differences arising between the actual 
results and the assumptions made or future changes  
to such assumptions could result in future adjustments 
to tax income and expense already recorded. Provisions 
are established based on reasonable estimates for 
possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities  
of the respective countries in which the Group operates. 
Management judgement is used to determine the 
amount of such provisions taking into account that 
differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety 
of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the 
respective Group company’s domicile.
Jon Stanton
Finance Director
27 February 2013
IV
III
II
I
41 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Assurance activities
Ethics and cultural environment
Monitoring and oversight controls
Functional and frontline controls
Acquisition risks
Asset risks
Corporate risks
How We Manage Risk
The Weir Group faces a wide spectrum of risks across our 
global footprint. Effective management of those risks is at 
the heart of how we conduct our day-to-day business.
Risk management framework
We can take decisions with conﬁdence, because we  
know that, as a Group, we are identifying risks at an  
early stage and taking proportionate steps to mitigate 
those risks. We have a Risk Management Policy and 
Framework which provides a consistent approach to 
risk management across the Group on a continual cycle. 
Risks identiﬁed at operating company level, which 
potentially may have a wider impact on the divisions and 
the Group, are escalated through deﬁned and regular 
reporting mechanisms. Where required, feedback is 
provided to the operating companies on their risk 
assessment and approach to risk mitigation. In addition, 
division and Group-wide risks are shared with the 
operating companies. This allows the operating 
companies to consider the local implications of  
such risks. Our integrated bottom-up and top-down 
approach to risk management provides visibility  
and accountability for risks throughout the Group. 
Risk management framework
Our integrated bottom-up and top-down 
approach to risk management provides 
visibility and accountability for risks 
throughout the Group.
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Board and  
sub-committees
Group Executive
Risk Committee
Operating company management
Divisional management
Risk management cycle
Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood  
of occurrence before, and after, control mitigation, i.e. 
gross and net risk. This allows the business to review  
the relative cost/beneﬁt of control actions to ensure the 
risk mitigation is proportionate. We recognise that not all 
risks are within the control of the Group, a key example 
being political and social unrest within the territories  
in which we operate. However, our approach to risk 
management ensures we have controls in place to 
reduce the impact of such risks, should they occur. 
Risk management cycle Risk roles and responsibilities
Risk roles and responsibilities
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s  
risk and internal control frameworks. It has set out  
the decisions, and hence the level of risk, which can  
be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and 
operational company management without requiring 
escalation to the Board. This is achieved through a series 
of Group policies and delegated authority matrices 
including reference to, for example, capital expenditure, 
sales and quotations, gifts and hospitality, employee 
appointments, expansion into new territories, appointment 
of external sales agents, and operational purchases.
Policies and decisions
Reporting
Identify and assess
gross risk
Monitor and
report
control actions
Identify further
Identify existing
controls
risks
Assess net
IV
III
II
I
43 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 How We Manage Risk
continued
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Global and economic conditions
Changes in key 
markets and/ 
or political 
conditions have 
an adverse impact 
on customers’ 
expenditure plans. 
We need to remain sufﬁciently ﬂexible to allow us to 
meet growth in demand when our customers’ markets 
are buoyant and therefore capital investment is high, 
and equally foresee downturns and/or instability 
in territories, to allow us to adjust our operations 
accordingly. Otherwise, we are at risk of not maximising 
our potential for growth in buoyant markets, and 
incurring unnecessary costs during downturns.
 – We maintain regular engagement with our customers 
to understand their needs and challenges. 
 – Our strategic planning utilises extensive market 
intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities  
and dips in markets, as well as potential political  
and social instability in regions. 
 – We maintain contingency plans for downturns and 
exits from unstable regions. 
Technology and innovation
We fail to drive 
innovation to ensure 
that the business 
continues to deliver 
sustainable and 
attractive solutions 
for our customers. 
The strength of our business is built upon a history 
of delivering innovative and sustainable solutions 
for our customers. If we fail to keep abreast of 
market needs or to innovate solutions we are at 
risk of losing market share to our competitors 
and reducing margins as demand decreases. 
 – Continual investment in research and development, 
including the Weir Advanced Research Centre in 
conjunction with the University of Strathclyde. 
 – Global design centres of origin, dedicated technology 
centres for pump and materials development and a 
commitment to creating patent protected technologies.
 – We have dedicated governance teams (Engineering and 
Manufacturing Excellence Committees) focused on the 
delivery of our strategic objectives for technological 
advances and innovation in manufacturing practices  
to meet the needs of our customers.
Environment, health and safety (EHS)
We fail to adequately 
protect our 
people and other 
stakeholders from 
harm associated 
with a breach in 
EHS standards.
We have a fundamental duty to protect our 
people and other stakeholders from harm whilst 
conducting our business. As well as the personal 
impact on our people resulting from a failure to 
meet this obligation, we would also be at risk of:
 – reputational damage leading to a loss of customers;
 – legal action from regulators including ﬁnes and 
penalties; and
 – exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
 – The Weir behavioural safety system is in place  
to reduce the risk of safety incidents. In addition,  
there are initiatives to prevent the most common 
accident types. The Weir global EHS standards  
are continually reviewed. 
 – The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for 
monitoring performance and compliance with Group 
objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS. 
 – There is a formal EHS assurance programme with 
issues escalated as required through the reporting 
structures. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
As in any business, there may be unforeseen issues which could impact the Group’s ability to achieve its objectives in the future. 
However, we believe the Group’s risk management framework makes this less likely. The key risks set out below are those which 
we believe have the greatest potential to impact our ability to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives.
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Ethics and governance
Interactions with our 
people, customers, 
suppliers and other 
stakeholders are not 
conducted with the 
highest standards 
of integrity, which 
devalues our 
reputation.
We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt 
behaviour from our people, or external parties acting  
on our behalf, whilst conducting our business.  
If we fail to act with integrity we are at risk of:
 – reputational damage leading to a loss of customers;
 – increased scrutiny from regulators; 
 – legal action from regulators including ﬁnes, penalties 
and imprisonment; and
 – exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
 – The Code of Conduct, supplemented with Group 
policies on related topics, provides a clear benchmark 
for how we expect our business will be conducted. 
 – Regular training is provided using a range of 
mechanisms including ‘Town Hall’ style sessions, 
on-line and induction training.
 – The ﬁnancial control framework is continually 
monitored for effectiveness. 
 – Internal Audit’s remit includes regular review of the 
anti-bribery and corruption and ﬁnancial controls 
across the Group. The Group Legal team is 
responsible for monitoring compliance with the  
Code of Conduct.
Supply chain
We fail to adequately 
manage the supply 
chain thereby 
reducing our 
ability to meet 
customer demand 
in an economic and 
efﬁcient manner.
Our supply chain is dependent upon a number of factors 
including sufﬁcient manufacturing capacity, access to 
raw materials and key components, integrated sales 
and production planning, and skilled people. If we fail 
to meet the delivery targets agreed with customers 
as a result of a failure in the supply chain we risk:
 – damaging our reputation and as a consequence 
losing customers and market share;
 – incurring penalties as a result of late delivery 
contractual clauses; and
 – reducing margins by incurring unnecessary additional 
costs associated with late remedial actions taken  
to avoid missing delivery targets. 
 – Established engagement framework in place with  
key suppliers. 
 – Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain throughout 
the organisation. 
 – The Purchasing Excellence Committee monitors 
performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards relating to procurement. 
Centres of Excellence are established for key 
components to drive efﬁciencies and enhance delivery 
standards whilst maintaining quality.
 – Consistent Group-wide approach to inventory control 
and sales and operational planning. 
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories
Inadequate planning 
and management 
of the integration 
and expansion 
processes impacts 
the ability to 
generate growth 
opportunities, 
synergies and cost 
savings within 
expected timescales.
Acquisitions and expansions into new territories 
are only undertaken after rigorous review and 
identiﬁcation of expected synergies, cost savings 
and growth opportunities. However, there is a risk 
that these beneﬁts may not be achieved, or may 
not be achieved within the anticipated timescales, 
thereby tying up the Group’s funds in investments with 
insufﬁcient return. There is also a risk that we could 
be left liable for past acts or omissions of the acquired 
businesses without adequate right of redress. 
 – The strategic planning process includes market  
and competitive position assessments to drive  
the acquisition agenda. 
 – Comprehensive due diligence is performed on  
all potential acquisitions. 
 – We have a formal 100 day integration plan with 
dedicated integration directors and managers 
appointed to oversee and manage the full  
integration programme. 
IV
III
II
I
45 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Sustainability Review
The Group considers sustainability to be a key part of 
its strategy and recognises its importance in delivering 
shareholder value. Our sustainability approach is 
embedded in our business through six key areas.
Sustainability matters to Weir because our employees, 
customers, suppliers and investors want to work for, do 
business with, supply and own a business that operates 
safely, ethically, fairly and in a way that minimises 
environmental impact. 
Sustainability is an important part of how the Group 
operates and we seek to deliver our strategy and business 
model in a way that can contribute to reducing negative 
environmental impacts and assists the communities  
in which we do business. 
Environment
ISO 14001
All our continuing operations are ISO 14001  
accredited, or will be by the end of 2013, apart from  
new acquisitions where a plan is put in place to achieve 
accreditation during the integration process. ISO 14001 
is an internationally recognised speciﬁcation for an 
environmental management system which helps 
organisations to meet environmental and economic 
goals as well as assisting in the implementation of 
environmental policy. It provides assurance that our 
environmental performance meets and will continue  
to meet legal and environmental policy requirements. 
Carbon footprint
The Weir Group is an energy intensive business,  
due to its requirement for electricity and gas for  
industrial manufacturing and service operations  
across a global footprint. 
Since 2011, the Group’s operating companies have been 
identifying and implementing three carbon emission 
reduction projects on a rolling basis, adding new projects 
as each is completed.
Our carbon emissions are reported in accordance  
with the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  
(‘GHG Protocol’) developed by the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development and the World 
Resources Institute. The GHG Protocol categorises 
emissions as follows:
 – Scope 1 – Direct emissions 
 These are emissions for which businesses are  
directly responsible.
 – Scope 2 – Electricity indirect emissions 
 These are emissions from the electricity that a 
company buys to use in its equipment or operations.
 – Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions
 These are emissions from activities that are relevant to a 
company, but not within its direct control, for example, 
transport in vehicles not owned by the company.
ENVIRONMENT
To reduce our energy use  
and carbon footprint
HEAL TH & SAFETY
To maintain a safe and  
healthy workplace
PRODUCTS AND 
TECHNOLOGY
To optimise the energy efﬁciency  
of our products and supply of 
products to low carbon industries
EMPLOYEES
To attract and retain the best 
employees
COMMUNITIES
To invest in the communities  
where we operate
ETHICS
To conduct our business 
responsibly and ethically
The Group has six sustainability priorities:
The Weir Group reports on its Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 
as deﬁned in the GHG Protocol. Scope 3 is an optional 
reporting category. Emissions are reported as tonnes  
of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘tCO
2
e’).
A proportion of our data is derived, or partly derived, 
from estimates and we are always working to improve 
the accuracy and completeness of our data. In 2013,  
the Group intends to undertake a review of its 
greenhouse gas policy and reporting practices,  
taking into consideration the mandatory reporting 
requirements due to be introduced under the 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013.
The Group’s total carbon footprint from 2010 to 2012  
is shown on the opposite page. The Group’s absolute 
emissions have increased year on year. However, since 
2010 the Group has made some signiﬁcant acquisitions, 
including Weir Linatex, Seaboard and Novatech. The 
impact of acquisitions on the emissions of the Group as 
a whole can be seen in the chart, with acquisitions since 
2010 representing 16% of the 2012 total. The increase  
in emissions is also attributable to the growth of the  
Group during the period and its increased output. The 
Group’s emissions by turnover remain constant with 2011. 
This is, in part, due to the activity mix of our business  
with high demand in the primary manufacturing areas  
of foundry production and machining during 2012.
To ﬁnd out more about these six areas, including detailed case studies, 
visit weir.co.uk/sustainability
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
46 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Charitable donations
Community 71%
Education 20%
Health 9%
Total emissions 
CO
2
 tonnes (’000)
Total emissions by turnover 
tCO
2
e/£m
Timber 
recycled
Metal 
recycled 
to third party
Scrap metal 
purchased 
from customers
Metal 
recycled 
internally
5
14.5
17 .9
15.8
1.2 1.4
0.9 1.2
1.6 3.8
4.9
2.4 2.5
10
15
20
2010 2011 2012
Foundry recycling (’000 tonnes)
Acquisitions
Continuing Operations
50
100
150
2010
133
2011
165
148
186
158
2012
200
20
40
60
80
2010
82
2011
72 72
2012
100
The majority of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions 
come from electricity and gas use at our facilities, with 
electricity accounting for 67% of the total emissions  
in 2012 (2011: 67%). Our foundries, the most energy 
intensive areas of our operations, produced 64,000  
tCO
2
e in 2012, which equates to 35% of the Group’s  
total emissions.
Foundry recycling
The Group’s ﬁve foundries recycled nearly 16,000 tonnes 
of metal in our foundry operations in 2012. This means  
that around 51% of the metal poured at our foundries  
is recycled.
Health and safety 
The Environment, Health and Safety Excellence 
Committee drives good Group-wide health and safety 
practice. The Group is committed to a zero accident 
workplace. For more information on health and safety, 
see page 21 or go to weir.co.uk/sustainability.
Employees
Recruiting, retaining and developing the best people  
is at the heart of Weir’s sustainability as a business.  
This is encouraged through access to opportunities to 
progress, competitive and fair working conditions, and 
an open culture where issues can be raised, discussed 
and addressed. For more information, see Our People  
on page 22. 
Communities
We believe we have an enduring obligation to invest  
in local communities and minimise any environmental 
impact on the areas where we operate. As a global 
business, our operating businesses have the discretion 
to invest in their local communities in the areas of 
greatest need. Broadly, the Group seeks to support 
health and education projects, given their potential to 
provide lasting beneﬁts. For recent examples of these 
projects, go to weir.co.uk/sustainability.
Charitable donations
The total charitable donations of Group companies 
during the ﬁnancial year was £503,011 (2011: £422,300), 
as shown below.
The Weir Code of Conduct prohibits political 
contributions and no political donations were  
made during the period.
Products and technology
Our products and services aim to meet customer 
demands and their corporate sustainability goals, 
through reducing energy and water usage and the 
production of waste materials. Many of the Group’s 
products and services are used in low carbon 
applications such as nuclear and renewables power 
generation. The Engineering Excellence Committee 
continually seeks to enhance energy efﬁciency through 
the design, research and manufacturing process and 
product usage in customer operations. 
Ethics 
The Weir Code of Conduct establishes clear guidelines 
and standards of business behaviour for employees. 
Supporting the Code is the ethics hotline and anti-
bribery and corruption training. The Code also explains 
the high human rights standards to which the Group 
works. More information on the Group’s activity to 
promote ethical behaviour is on pages 63 to 65 of the 
Corporate Governance report. 
IV
III
II
I
47 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Board of Directors
Name and title
Lord Smith  
of Kelvin 
Chairman (68) 
Keith  
Cochrane 
Chief Executive (48)
Alan Ferguson 
Non-Executive 
Director (55)
Melanie Gee 
Non-Executive 
Director (51) 
Nationality British British British British
Date of appointment Non-Executive Director 
since February 2002 and 
Chairman since July 2002.
Joined the Group as Finance 
Director in July 2006 and 
appointed Chief Executive 
in November 2009.
December 2011. May 2011.
Committee 
membership
Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee;
member of the Audit 
Committee.
Expertise Lord Smith was formerly 
Chairman and Chief 
Executive of Morgan 
Grenfell Private Equity 
and was Chief Executive 
of Morgan Grenfell Asset 
Management from 1996 until 
2000 before becoming Vice 
Chairman of Deutsche Asset 
Management between 2000 
and 2002. He has also held 
a number of other positions 
in the ﬁnancial services 
industry, and was a member 
of the Judicial Appointments 
Board for Scotland and 
former Chairman of the 
trustees of the National 
Museums of Scotland. 
He is Chancellor of 
the University of the 
West of Scotland and  
Patron of the Scottish 
Community Foundation.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a past president of 
the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Following a number of 
years with Arthur Andersen, 
Keith joined Stagecoach 
Group plc in 1993. He was 
appointed Finance Director 
in 1996 and Group Chief 
Executive in 2000. He 
joined ScottishPower plc 
in 2003 where he became 
Director of Group Finance.
He is a chartered 
accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Alan was Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer and a Director of 
Lonmin plc, one of the 
world’s largest producers 
of platinum group metals, 
from 2007 until 2010. Prior 
to his role with Lonmin, he 
held the position of Group 
Finance Director with the 
BOC Group plc. Before this 
he spent 22 years working 
for Inchcape plc in a variety 
of roles, including six years 
as Group Finance Director.
He is a chartered 
accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Melanie is a Senior Adviser for 
Lazard & Co. Limited, having 
worked for them since 2008. 
Formerly, she spent a number 
of years with S.G. Warburg 
(now part of UBS) and was 
appointed a Managing 
Director of UBS in 1999. 
Between 2006 and 2008 she 
was a Senior Relationship 
Director of UBS. She has 
been an alternate member 
of The Takeover Panel – 
LIBA (CFC) since 2006.
Key external 
appointments
Chairman of SSE plc 
(formerly Scottish & 
Southern Energy plc).
Chairman of UK Green 
Investment Bank plc.
Chairman of Glasgow 2014 
Limited, the organising 
committee for the 
Commonwealth Games.
Non-Executive Director 
of Standard Bank Group 
Ltd in South Africa.
Non-Executive Director 
of Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra Society Ltd.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director 
of Drax Group plc. 
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
48 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Richard Menell 
Non-Executive 
Director (56) 
John Mogford 
Non-Executive 
Director (59) 
Lord Robertson  
of Port Ellen 
Non-Executive Director 
and Senior Independent 
Director (66) 
Jon Stanton 
Finance Director (45) 
South African British British British
April 2009. June 2008. February 2004. April 2010.
Member of the Nomination  
and Remuneration 
Committees.
Member of the  
Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration 
Committees.
None.
Richard worked as an 
investment banker before 
joining Anglovaal Group in 
1992. He was appointed 
Chief Executive of Anglovaal 
Mining in 1996 then Executive 
Chairman in 2002. In 2005, 
he left to become President 
and Chief Executive of TEAL 
Exploration & Mining Inc. He 
was formerly Chairman of 
Avgold Ltd (1996-2004) and 
Bateman Engineering BV 
(2005-2009) and Director of 
Mutual & Federal Insurance 
Company Ltd (1996-2010) 
and Standard Bank Group 
Ltd (1997-2011). Richard is 
a Senior Advisor to Credit 
Suisse and serves as a 
Director on a number of 
unlisted companies and 
non-proﬁt organisations.
He is a fellow of the 
Geological Society (London) 
and of both the Australasian 
and South African Institute 
of Mining and Metallurgy. 
John is currently a Managing 
Director for First Reserve,  
a large global energy  
focused private equity ﬁrm.  
As part of this role he sits  
on several boards. 
He was formerly an 
Executive Vice President of 
BP plc having been with BP 
for over 30 years, initially 
in their exploration division 
and progressively rising to 
Executive Vice President 
(Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
US Downstream & Head of 
Reﬁning). He held numerous 
positions in every area of 
operations from gas and 
renewables to upstream 
and downstream oil.
He is a fellow of the 
Institution of Mechanical 
Engineers.
Lord Robertson is Senior 
International Advisor 
to Cable and Wireless 
Communications plc and 
a Senior Counsellor with 
The Cohen Group (USA). 
He was the UK Secretary of 
State for Defence from 1997 
until 1999 before becoming 
Secretary General of NATO 
from 1999 until 2003. He was 
formerly a Director of Smiths 
Group plc (2004-2006) and 
Deputy Chairman of Cable 
& Wireless plc (2004-2006). 
A member of Her Majesty’s 
Privy Council, he is Chairman 
of the Ditchley Foundation 
and of the Commission on 
Global Road Safety. He 
is honorary Professor of 
Politics at Stirling University, 
an honorary Fellow of the 
Royal Society of Edinburgh, 
an Elder Brother of the 
Corporation of Trinity House 
and Chancellor of the Order 
of St Michael and St George. 
Jon was formerly a partner 
with Ernst & Young having 
joined as a graduate trainee 
in their Birmingham ofﬁce 
in 1988. He was appointed 
as a partner in their London 
ofﬁce in 2001 with lead 
responsibility for the audit 
of a number of FTSE 100 
multinational clients.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales.
Non-Executive Director of 
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye 
Gold Limited, both South 
African companies listed  
on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the New 
York Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
Rockwell Diamonds Inc.,  
a South African company 
listed on both the 
Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the Toronto 
Stock Exchange.
Chairman of CHC 
Helicopters SA in 
Luxembourg, Amromco 
Energy LLC in Romania 
and White Rose Energy 
Ventures LLP in the UK. 
Non-Executive Director 
of Deep Gulf Energy LP in 
America, DOF Subsea AS 
in Norway and Midstates 
Petroleum, Inc a US 
company listed on the New 
York Stock Exchange.
Deputy Chairman and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of TNK-BP Ltd.
Non-Executive Director of 
Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd.
None.
IV
III
II
I
49 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Group Executive
Name and title
Dean Jenkins 
Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director (41) 
Steve Noon 
Oil & Gas Divisional 
Managing Director (48) 
Kevin Spencer 
Power & Industrial 
Divisional Managing 
Director (57) 
Biography Dean is the Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director based 
in Melbourne, Australia. He 
joined the Group in November 
2010, becoming Power & 
Industrial Divisional Managing 
Director in 2011. He was 
appointed to his current 
role in August 2012. Dean 
previously worked for Qantas 
Airlines and the Australian 
listed infrastructure services 
company UGL Ltd, most 
recently as Chief Executive 
of the latter’s Rail Division.
Steve is the Oil & Gas 
Divisional Managing Director 
based in Fort Worth, USA. 
He joined the Group in 2007. 
He has worked with several 
multinationals including 
Schefenacker Vision 
Systems, James Hardie 
Industries and The Toro 
Company. Before joining 
the Group in 2007, he held 
the position of president 
of Schefenacker Vision 
Systems, North America.
Kevin is the Power & 
Industrial Divisional 
Managing Director based 
in East Kilbride, Scotland. 
He joined the Group in 
2005. Prior to his current 
appointment in August 2012, 
he was European Regional 
Managing Director of the 
Group’s Minerals Division. 
Kevin is a mechanical 
engineer who worked in 
the mining industry for 17 
years, before moving into 
the mining supply industry.
Name and title
Keith Ruddock 
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary (52) 
Pauline Lafferty 
Director of Human  
Resources (47) 
Gavin Nicol 
Director of Operations 
Support and 
Development (51) 
Biography Keith is General Counsel and 
Company Secretary based 
at the Group’s Head Ofﬁce 
in Glasgow. He joined the 
Group in April 2012 from 
Royal Dutch Shell plc, where 
he was General Counsel 
for Upstream International, 
Shell’s largest business unit, 
based in The Hague. He 
has extensive international 
commercial and legal 
experience, having worked 
in the Middle East, North 
America, Africa, Australasia 
and Europe, and was a 
member of Shell’s Upstream 
International leadership team.
Pauline is the Director of 
Human Resources based 
at the Group’s Head Ofﬁce 
in Glasgow. She joined 
the Group in 2011. Pauline 
was previously in executive 
search with Miles Partnership 
and Russell Reynolds 
Associates in the UK and 
Australia. Prior to this, she 
held business planning and 
operational roles for 11 years 
with Motorola and Digital 
Equipment Corporation 
(DEC) in Scotland, Australia 
and Hong Kong, ultimately 
becoming Asia Paciﬁc 
Director of Supply for DEC.
Gavin is the Director of 
Operations Support & 
Development based at  
the Group’s Head Ofﬁce in 
Glasgow. He was previously 
President of Weir SPM for two 
years, based in Fort Worth, 
Texas. Gavin joined Weir in 
2005 and was managing 
director of the Weir Pumps 
business prior to its sale in 
2007. Before joining Weir, 
he worked for a number 
of multinationals including 
the Terex Corporation, 
PWC and Coats Viyella.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive. Their biographical information can be 
found on pages 48 and 49.
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
50 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’s Introduction
The Board’s approach to governance begins with the 
recognition that it is a framework supporting the values  
and behaviours which deﬁne how our company operates. 
We do not regard governance as a prescriptive set of rules but a set of principles which should guide behaviour, 
processes and actions which inspire trust and support the way we do business. We believe that effective corporate 
governance consists of a set of actions which ripple from the boardroom to the shopﬂoor. The Weir Way means we 
achieve growth by not only doing the right thing strategically but also doing it the right way. In achieving this, good 
governance throughout the organisation is clearly very important. I speak on behalf of all my colleagues on the Board 
when I describe Weir as having an ‘open’ culture. It is a business where, in my experience, all employees feel able to 
contribute and challenge and a business where the Executive Directors and senior management recognise that this 
is fundamentally important. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code, the principles of which we fully support and under which we report, tasks the 
Board with providing the leadership necessary to promote the long term success of the Company. This leadership 
must be provided within the context of an effective framework of controls and, as Chairman, it is my principal role to 
provide Board leadership that ensures Board effectiveness. To do this, I strive to replicate the wider corporate culture 
at Weir by creating a boardroom culture where all relevant information for decision-making is shared openly. Each 
voice around the table is accorded equal weight and contribution and challenge is encouraged. I hope and believe 
that we have a Board where nobody is fearful of asking what I call the ‘daft laddie or lassie’ questions, which can 
often be those which provide the greatest insights into the problems or opportunities in any business. Careful 
thought is put into the balance of the Board, with relevant expertise and diversity being key factors which guide our 
succession planning. I believe that we have a Board with considerable skill and experience and that our shareholders 
are well served by the quality of thought and discussion around the boardroom table. Our committee chairmen hold 
themselves to the same high standards. The key skills and experience of the Board members are outlined later in  
this section.
In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council published a new edition of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, effective from the Company’s next ﬁnancial year (the ‘New 
Code’). The changes largely relate to Accountability, Part C of the Code, which covers 
areas such as ﬁnancial and business reporting, audit committees and auditors. The 
intention of the Board is that the Company will fully comply with the changes introduced 
in the New Code in 2013. 
During the year there have been a number of other developments impacting on the 
Company’s present and future disclosure requirements, namely:
 – government changes on narrative reporting;
 – mandatory greenhouse gas reporting;
 – government proposals on executive remuneration;
 – Lord Sharman’s proposals on going concern and liquidity risk; and
 – consultation on Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (formerly the  
Turnbull Guidance).
These changes will affect the Group’s disclosures and we have attempted to go some 
way towards reﬂecting these changes in this year’s Annual Report. 
Lord Smith of Kelvin 
Chairman
51 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I Corporate Governance Code 
The UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly the Combined Code) sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as board 
composition and effectiveness, the role of board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council from whom paper and downloadable versions can be obtained via its website 
at www.frc.org.uk. For the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2010 (‘the Code’). This report, in addition to the Remuneration Report, details how the Company has applied the main principles 
of the Code.
Leadership
The role and responsibilities of the Board
The names of the current Directors of the Company can be found in the table below. Their relevant experience and signiﬁcant appointments 
are detailed in their biographical information on pages 48 and 49 and in the Board composition section below. At the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) on 9 May 2012, Stephen King, Michael Dearden and Alan Mitchelson resigned as Directors of the Company.
Table of the Board of Directors
Name Designation Date of appointment Date of most recent re-election
Lord Smith Chairman 6 February 2002 9 May 2012
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 9 May 2012
Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 9 May 2012
Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 9 May 2012
Richard Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 9 May 2012
John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 9 May 2012
Lord Robertson Non-Executive Director 1 February 2004 9 May 2012
Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 9 May 2012
Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary on 9 May 2012, replacing Alan Mitchelson in this role.
Charles Berry is due to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013.
The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders. The Board sets the Group’s 
strategy and ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities. In determining the long term strategy and 
objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other 
stakeholders. It reviews management and ﬁnancial performance, monitoring the delivery of strategy and achievement of business objectives, and 
works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management. The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision of the 
Group’s purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
Board
Group Exec
2010
Board
Group Exec
2012
Board
Group Exec
2011
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2010-2012
52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance 53 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Board composition
Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board is chaired by Lord Smith of Kelvin. The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions for overall Board and individual Director 
effectiveness. He provides leadership, demonstrating the values and behaviours encompassed by the Weir Way. He also, in consultation with 
the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Board’s meetings.
Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company. He provides leadership to the 
Group to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board. The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the 
Group Executive and various management committees, known as ‘Excellence Committees’.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with each having clearly deﬁned duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors help the Executive Directors by contributing independent challenge and rigour to the Board’s deliberations  
and assisting in the development of the Company’s strategy. In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the  
Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives. Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and 
ensuring the integrity of the ﬁnancial information, controls and risk management processes. In order to carry out these functions appropriately 
the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits. Senior managers are also regularly invited 
to Board meetings to make business presentations to the Board.
Senior Independent Director
Lord Robertson is the Senior Independent Director of the Company, having taken on the role after Mike Dearden’s retirement on 9 May 2012, 
and as such works alongside the Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary. He is also available to 
shareholders if direct contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders 
or for which such contact is inappropriate. As Senior Independent Director he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Board meetings
During the year the Board scheduled eight meetings, held two additional meetings and also met at the Group conference in Perthshire, Scotland, 
during April. In October 2012, the board meeting was held in Fort Worth, Texas, on a board knowledge-gathering visit to our US upstream operations. 
More information on this can be found on page 59. In addition to the formal board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the 
year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
The table below details the attendance at board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of ofﬁce for the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012.
Name Attendance
Keith Cochrane 10 of 10
Michael Dearden
1
5 of 5
Alan Ferguson 9 of 10
Melanie Gee 10 of 10
Stephen King
1
3 of 5
Richard Menell 10 of 10
Alan Mitchelson
1
5 of 5
John Mogford 10 of 10
Lord Robertson 10 of 10
Lord Smith of Kelvin 10 of 10
Jon Stanton 10 of 10
 
Note
1. Michael Dearden, Stephen King and Alan Mitchelson retired from the Board on 9 May 2012.
During the year the Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12 month agenda for 
board and committee meetings. Agenda items included standing items such as progress reports from the Executive Directors and the 
Company Secretary, as well as periodic items such as updates from committee Chairmen, a review of the risk register and internal controls, 
strategy and succession planning. In this manner, the Chairman and the Board can have conﬁdence that the meetings cover all the matters 
required to be discussed by them and also allows sufﬁcient time for discussion by the Board of each matter, at the most appropriate meeting 
in the year, enabling them to discharge effectively their duties as Directors. Additional meetings can be held throughout the year as business 
needs arise; with there being two such meetings in 2012.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of Association. 
In addition, Directors and ofﬁcers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by Directors and Ofﬁcers 
liability insurance. 54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain speciﬁc matters should be reserved for the consideration  
and decision of the Board alone. Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management. Decisions speciﬁcally 
reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document Matters Reserved to the Board, and include:
 – annual and interim accounts and ﬁnancial statements;
 –dividend policy;
 – board appointments;
 – group strategy and the annual operating budget;
 – changes relating to the Group’s capital structure;
 – changes to the Group’s management and control structure;
 – major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals;
 – treasury policies;
 – risk management strategy;
 – group corporate governance policy;
 – environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
Board committees
The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities. The principal committees are the Nomination 
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The responsibilities of these board committees are set out in the individual 
Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Company’s website. The role and responsibilities of the committees are 
discussed further below. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, professional advisors and members of the 
senior management team attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider speciﬁc issues.
Current members Name Attendance
Lord Smith (Chairman) Keith Cochrane 3 of 3
Keith Cochrane Michael Dearden
1
2 of 2
Richard Menell Richard Menell
2
1 of 1
Lord Robertson Lord Robertson 3 of 3
Lord Smith 3 of 3
Notes
1. Michael Dearden retired from the Committee on 9 May 2012.
2. Richard Menell was appointed to the Committee on 14 June 2012.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and two of the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Lord 
Smith, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position. Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of 
the other Committee members they would excuse themselves from the meeting. Michael Dearden resigned as a member of the Committee 
on 9 May 2012 and has been replaced by Richard Menell. The Company considers that the composition of the Committee is in accordance 
with the Code. Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior 
management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate 
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board. 
The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use  
of external executive recruitment agencies. This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular 
appointment together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors. The existing balance of the Board and the time 
commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
The Nomination Committee 
Lord Smith, Chairman 55 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Current members Name Attendance
Alan Ferguson (Chairman) Alan Ferguson 3 of 3
Melanie Gee Melanie Gee 3 of 3
John Mogford Stephen King
1
2 of 2
John Mogford 3 of 3
 
Audit Committee attendees
Lord Smith Group Chairman Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Jon Stanton Group Finance Director Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee
Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation
Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation
Ernst & Young Attends as auditor to the Group
1. Stephen King retired from the Committee on 9 May 2012.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan Ferguson and consists of three members. Stephen King retired as a member of the Committee on  
9 May 2012. All the members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors. Alan Ferguson was previously Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of Lonmin plc and Group Finance Director with BOC Group plc and Inchcape plc and as such is considered by the Board to have 
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. Each of the other Non-Executive Directors on the Committee has, through their other business 
activities, signiﬁcant experience in ﬁnancial matters. As detailed above, the Group Chairman, senior members of management and advisors 
are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Company’s ﬁnancial calendar. There have been three meetings in the period ended 
28 December 2012. At least one meeting a year, or for part of one meeting each year, the Audit Committee meets with the internal and external 
auditors without any executive management present. This provides the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised with the auditors. 
The Committee has the ability to call on Group employees to assist in its work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors  
in order to carry out its roles and duties. The Committee is also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Interim Report 
and Annual Report and Financial Statements and for reviewing the scope and ﬁndings of the audit. In particular, it reviews the judgements and 
estimates with the most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements which include, but are not limited to, accounting 
for acquisitions, the impairment testing of intangible assets, retirement beneﬁt obligations, the effective tax rate and tax provisioning, other 
provisions and exceptional items. Further details of the judgements and estimates are set out in the Financial Review on page 36. The Committee 
reviews and approves the internal audit function’s remit and ensures there are the necessary resources and access to information available  
in order for it to fulﬁl its mandate. 
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the Code in areas of risk management and internal control, focusing 
particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures that an effective system of 
internal ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial controls is maintained. The Committee’s role with regard to risk is to look at the process in formulating the 
risk matrix and the assurance provided around mitigating factors. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditor, as well as reviewing their independence, effectiveness and 
remuneration, details of which can be found in the Accountability section on page 60.
The Audit Committee 
Alan Ferguson, Chairman 56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Continued
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, outlining the main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are available to view and 
download on the Company’s website. These are reviewed annually.
In the course of 2012, the Committee discussed the following matters:
 – the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Report and interim management statements, any signiﬁcant audit issues, 
accounting policies and ﬁnancial reporting issues and judgements identiﬁed by the Finance Director and the auditors;
 – the Annual Report disclosures relevant to the Committee, including the going concern statement and the reports on risk management  
and internal control;
 – the 2011 internal audit report and the internal audit scope and approach for 2012;
 – the Group accounting policies;
 – the Group’s risk process and the results of the compliance scorecard;
 – the audit planning, independence, performance and fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2012;
 – the anti-bribery and corruption assurance framework;
 – non-audit fee policy and fees for Ernst & Young LLP;
 – the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
Current members Name Attendance
Melanie Gee (Chairman) Michael Dearden
1
2 of 2
Lord Robertson Melanie Gee
2
3 of 3
Richard Menell Lord Robertson 5 of 5
Richard Menell 5 of 5
Remuneration Committee attendees
Lord Smith Group Chairman Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee
Pauline Lafferty HR Director Attends by invitation
Notes 
1. Michael Dearden retired from the Committee on 9 May 2012.
2. Melanie Gee was appointed to the Committee on 9 May 2012.
Melanie Gee joined the Committee as Chairman on 9 May 2012, replacing Michael Dearden who retired as a Director at the 2012 AGM. There 
were ﬁve meetings held during the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee is detailed 
in the table above. All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors. Executive Directors 
and senior management attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. No member of the Committee has any 
personal ﬁnancial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
The Committee determines, within agreed terms of reference, speciﬁc remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and the other members of the Group Executive. This includes implementation of Group 
share incentive plans. In accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to their own 
terms and conditions of service or remuneration. The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website.
Further information on the activities of the Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 80. A resolution to approve the 
Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee 
Melanie Gee, Chairman 57 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
General Administration Committee
The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least one  
of whom must be an Executive Director. The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters  
in relation to existing bank and ﬁnance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans. It also attends to other 
matters of a routine manner relating to the Company’s share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Company’s 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
Group Executive
The Group Executive comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three Divisional 
Managing Directors, the Director of Operations Support and Development and the HR Director. Biographical details of the members of the 
Group Executive can be found on page 50. The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the Group Executive met 12 times. The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of  
the Group’s businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved. 
The Group Executive’s role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance  
to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of 
business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective 
inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning. It also approves major items of capital 
expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees
In addition to the above committees, several management committees have been created to deal with speciﬁc areas and to which the 
Executive Directors can further delegate their responsibilities. These Excellence Committees have clearly deﬁned remits and work across  
the Group promoting best practice. They report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The diagram below illustrates the management structure within the business.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
General Administration 
Committee
Group Executive
Risk 
Committee
Board and committee structure
Board 
committees
Engineering 
Excellence 
Committee
Manufacturing 
Excellence 
Committee
EHS  
Excellence 
Committee
Purchasing 
Excellence 
Committee
HR Excellence 
Committee
IT Excellence 
Committee
Finance 
Excellence 
Committee
Chief Executive
Board of Directors
The matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across 
the Group for timely and effective decision-making. 
Management 
committees 58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Effectiveness
Board composition
Between the start of the period and 9 May 2012, the Board comprised three Executive Directors, the Chairman and seven independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Since this date, the number of Executive Directors on the Board reduced to two and the number of independent 
Non-Executive Directors reduced to ﬁve with an additional Non-Executive Director due to be appointed on 1 March 2013. The key skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge on the Board is as follows:
Skills and experience
Independence Executive
Banking & 
Finance Governance International Leadership Mining Oil & Gas Power
Lord Smith XXXX X
Keith Cochrane XX XX
Alan Ferguson XXXX
Melanie Gee XXX X
Richard Menell XXXX
John Mogford X XXX XX
Lord Robertson X XXX
Jon Stanton XX X
    
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting 
the needs of the business. More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors. All the Non-Executive Directors are considered 
by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufﬁciently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can 
dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees. The positions of Chairman 
and Chief Executive are held separately. Each Director devotes sufﬁcient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers 
and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary. The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors 
are properly briefed on any issues arising at board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
Diversity
The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background and experience each individual member brings to the Board. To maintain this, the 
considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee 
which are available on the Company’s website. Speciﬁcally, the Nomination Committee must ‘consider candidates on merit and against 
objective criteria, and with due regard for the beneﬁts of diversity on the Board, including gender’ in identifying and recommending candidates.
Currently one member of the Board is female. This appointment was made on the basis that Melanie Gee was the best-qualiﬁed candidate  
to provide the Board with the necessary support and expertise in corporate ﬁnance, international ﬁnancial markets and banking. 
In the absence of binding regulation, the Nomination Committee will continue to recommend appointments to the Board based on the existing 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote 
to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
Corporate Governance Report
Continued 59 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Induction and ongoing training
When a new Director joins the company he or she is provided with information on the Group’s structure, operations, policies and other 
relevant documentation. New Directors are able to attend the Group’s induction programme which provides an insight into the Group’s key 
processes and controls. In addition, the Board meets once a year at one of the Group’s manufacturing sites, which includes presentations 
from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations. Directors are informed of relevant material 
changes to laws and regulations affecting the Group’s business and their duties as Directors. The Company Secretary advises the Board  
on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required. 
Additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
FACT -FINDING  
TRIPS
As part of the continued development of the Board of Directors, 
one board meeting each year is held in tandem with a site visit  
to one of the Group’s operations, usually outside of the UK. In 
October 2012, the Board meeting was held in Fort Worth, Texas. 
The Board visited the Weir SPM facilities, receiving a tour of  
both the plant and the new head ofﬁce building which was under 
construction at the time. They had the opportunity to meet with 
Weir SPM staff during their visit. The Board also visited a frac  
site to see how Weir equipment is used in customer operations.
During its two day visit, the Board received presentations  
from senior US based managers on the Oil & Gas business  
in the US, as well as updates on the recent acquisitions of 
Novatech and Seaboard.
The Group Executive members joined the Board on the site  
visits and were also able to attend the various updates and 
presentations over the course of the two days.
“As a relatively new Board 
member, seeing the business 
operations ﬁrst-hand was 
invaluable in developing a greater 
understanding of the Company.”
Alan Ferguson
Non-Executive Director  60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Directors and their other interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect 
interest that conﬂicts, or may possibly conﬂict, with the interests of the company. The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage 
the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conﬂict. Each Director is aware of the requirement  
to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conﬂict or a material change to an 
existing authorisation. Upon receipt of any such notiﬁcation, the Board, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, will 
consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conﬂict. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being 
considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they  
think this is appropriate. The Director in question will then be notiﬁed of the outcome.
The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one year’s notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors’ appointments can be terminated  
at any time with six months’ notice. The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered ofﬁce, set out the required commitment to the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options  
to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Board evaluation
In 2011, the Board engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to facilitate the external evaluation of the Board via a series of one-to-one 
interviews with each individual Director. Their ﬁndings were reported to the Board in January 2012.
The collated information was reviewed by the Board and the appropriate committee, and overall it was concluded that the performance of the 
Board as a whole, its principal committees and individual Directors was such that each Director performs at the optimum level for the beneﬁt 
of the Company. Recommendations provided in the review were followed up by the Chairman throughout the course of 2012.
Following external reviews in both 2010 and 2011, it was considered appropriate that the Board evaluation would be conducted in-house in 
2012. This was facilitated through the completion of questionnaires which focused on areas such as the role and composition of the Board, 
the content and process of meetings and the roles of the committees. In addition, the Chairman conducted individual discussions with each 
Non-Executive Director. The Chairman conducted the process, assisted by the Company Secretary. As is customary, Lord Robertson as 
Senior Independent Director oversaw the review of the Chairman. 
The overall responses generally reﬂected a very high level of satisfaction with the current working of the Board and its committees. The Board 
considered the evaluation at its January 2013 meeting and has decided to consider allotting additional time to certain areas to improve its 
effectiveness further. In particular, the Board may apply additional focus to reviewing talent development and related trends across the Company, 
and in considering risk and strategy matters in even more depth.
In line with the Code, the Board intends to undertake another externally facilitated evaluation within the next two years.
Re-election
All Directors on the Board at 28 December 2012 will seek re-election at the Company’s AGM on 1 May 2013 in compliance with the Code. 
Following his appointment to the Board on 1 March 2013, Charles Berry will retire and seek election as a Director of the Company at the AGM.
Accountability
As previously detailed, the Board has an established Audit Committee. Further information on the Committee and its roles and responsibilities 
can be found on page 55.
Auditors
The Audit Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors. This includes keeping under review the auditors’ 
independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by the auditors. The auditors conﬁrm their 
independence at least annually. A formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the 
objectivity of the auditors’ opinion on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements. This policy was made more robust during the period and only allows 
the auditors to be engaged for non-audit services subject to Committee approval being obtained prior to any such appointment where the 
expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external auditors is in excess of £75,000.
Non-audit fee work conducted by Ernst & Young LLP over the past year for assurance services amounted to 15% of the total fees including 
audit fees. The Committee considers that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external 
auditors.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in respect of audit and assurance services of £1.7m (2011: £1.8m) in respect of 2012 were approved  
by the Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance Report
Continued 61 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
During 2011, the Committee conducted an in depth review of the performance of the external auditors which considered, inter alia, the team, 
the scope of the audit and overall value for money provided. One output from this review was the introduction of a second Group audit 
partner who was in post for the 2011 year end reporting cycle and provided continuity at a senior level following rotation of the lead audit 
partner at the end of their ﬁve year period in post. 
In accordance with applicable ethical and professional standards, the external auditors are required to periodically rotate partners at a Group, 
divisional or country level in order to maintain their independence and objectivity with the lead partner required to rotate every ﬁve years. 
Following a review of the selection of the new lead partner in 2011, a new lead partner was appointed in 2012 for a term of ﬁve years.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualiﬁcation, expertise, resources and effectiveness, in particular 
noting the rotation of audit partner during the period, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective 
and recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as the Company’s external auditors for 2013. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for money  
of the audit.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as deﬁned by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006) of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Internal control and risk management
The Group’s high level approach to managing risk and the key risks to delivery of its strategy are set out on pages 42 to 45. 
The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below.
Risk management responsibilities 
Board
Overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal
control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group.
–  Annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control frameworks.
–  Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
–  Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices. 
Audit Committee 
Delegated responsibility from the Board to review the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk and internal control frameworks. 
–  Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management  
and internal control frameworks.
–  Review of reports from the internal and external audit teams.
–  Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment 
compliance scorecards. 
Risk Committee
Executive committee responsible for governance of the Group’s 
Risk Management Policy and Framework. 
–  Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management 
Policy and Framework.
–   Identiﬁcation and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, 
identiﬁcation of the key controls mitigating those risks, and  
 identiﬁcation of further actions where necessary.
–  Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards considering the 
appropriateness of management’s responses to identiﬁed risks,  
and assessing whether there are any gaps.
–  Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board. 
Group Executive
Executive committee with overall responsibility for managing 
the Group to ensure we achieve our strategic objectives. 
–  Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
–  Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance 
indicators relating to strategic objectives.
–  Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated 
authority matrices.
–  Escalating issues to the Board as required.  62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Risk management responsibilities 
Excellence Committees
Engineering
Environment, Health & Safety
Finance
HR 
IT
Manufacturing
Purchasing
Executive committees with representatives from across the Group 
in the respective areas of focus. The committees govern activities 
and performance in the respective areas of focus.
–  Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group 
associated with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
–  Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards related to the respective remits of the 
Excellence Committees.
–  Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
–  Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
–  Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Divisional management
Responsible for managing the businesses within the divisions 
to ensure divisional strategic objectives are achieved and there 
is compliance with Group policies and standards throughout 
their division.
–  Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the divisions’ strategic objectives.
–  Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards within the divisions with regard to the outputs 
from the Excellence Committees.
–  Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
–  Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
–  Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management 
Responsible for ensuring company objectives are achieved 
and business activities are conducted in accordance with 
Group policies and standards.
–  Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of their company’s strategic objectives.
–  Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards within their company.
–  Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices. 
–  Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence 
Committees as required.
–  Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Internal control 
In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (formally known as the Turnbull Guidance) the Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks through an internal control framework. This process has been in place throughout 
2012. More information can be found on risk management on page 42.
Our internal control framework has four key layers:
 – Frontline and functional controls
 This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and 
policies; a comprehensive ﬁnancial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting; regular performance appraisal and 
training for employees; restricted access to ﬁnancial systems and data; delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key 
transactions; protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm; IT and data security controls; business continuity 
planning; and assessment procedures for potential new recruits. 
 – Monitoring and oversight controls
 There is a clearly deﬁned organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated. There are monitoring controls  
at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address  
underperforming areas. 
 A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum. The scorecard 
assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures. 
 Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis. 
Signiﬁcant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis allowing appropriate action to be taken. 
Corporate Governance Report
Continued 63 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
 – Ethics and cultural environment
 We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner – ‘doing it right’. This is supported by the Weir Values 
which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives. The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our 
culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted. Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt  
with robustly and promptly. The Ethics section below provides more details on the Group’s activities to promote ethical behaviour.
 – Assurance activities
 We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection 
from risk and are operating as we would expect. Sources of assurance include: External Audit, Internal Audit, EHS audits, Intellectual Property 
audits, IT audits, Procurement audits, and Production System Lean audits. 
 The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need. Issues and 
recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from  
the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees. 
The Group’s internal control procedures described in this section do not cover joint venture interests. We have board representation  
on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted. 
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and  
the Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
 – state that the Group ﬁnancial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
being disclosed and explained; 
 – state for the Company ﬁnancial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures being disclosed and explained. 
The Directors conﬁrm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this Report, conﬁrms to the best of his or her knowledge that:
 – the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; 
 – the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group,  
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position 
of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the 
Group’s budgets, plans and cash ﬂow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities. In addition, the Directors have considered the potential 
impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group ﬁnancial statements on pages 127 to 135. Each of these items has been 
considered in relation to the Group’s banking facilities described on pages 113 and 114. 
Ethics
The Weir Code of Conduct provides a clear framework for decision-making, highlighting the values and behaviours we expect our people to 
demonstrate whilst making those decisions. It provides details on how we expect our people to conduct themselves on a day-to-day basis 
and guidance on where to go for help.  64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
The Code of Conduct covers a wide range of topics including anti-bribery and corruption, developing our people, health and safety,  
use of company property and resources, and conﬂicts of interest. It is available in numerous languages and has practical examples to  
assist interpretation. 
Regular training is provided on the Code of Conduct to all our people. A mandatory e-learning programme is aimed at those employees who are 
deemed to have a higher risk of exposure to bribery and corruption. The higher risk is as a consequence of their decision-making responsibilities 
in regard to third parties including customers, suppliers, and sales agents. Such ‘at risk’ employees include:
 – the Senior Management Group;
 – Sales and Marketing employees;
 – Purchasing employees; and 
 – Finance employees. 
The ‘at risk’ group of employees is also required to complete a quarterly online certiﬁcation process to conﬁrm that they are in compliance 
with the Code of Conduct. 
Over 2,500 employees completed the e-learning modules rolled out in 2012. The completion of the e-learning and quarterly online 
certiﬁcation is monitored by the Company Secretary. 
Topics from the Code of Conduct are built into ‘Town Hall’ meetings conducted within operating companies across the Group. These present  
an opportunity for employees to ask questions, as well as providing real life examples of how the Code of Conduct should be implemented.  
In addition, the Code of Conduct is a key topic in the induction training provided to all employees. 
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through communications, for example within:
 – the Group, regional and functional conferences;
 – Senior Management Group training courses such as Leadership Development; and
 – 100 day integration plans for new acquisitions.
Ethical relationships with our suppliers
We source raw materials, components and services across the globe. Our suppliers play a critical role in our business and our relationships 
with them are based on achieving best performance, product, delivery, service and total cost in an ethical and sustainable manner. 
The Group recognises that its responsibilities do not end at our factory doors and that they extend to our supply chain. We have a Supply 
Chain Policy which sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers to abide by in connection with:
 – how they treat their workforce;
 – legal and regulatory compliance;
 – health and safety;
 – business ethics; and
 – environmental standards. 
In addition, the Code of Conduct is issued to our key suppliers. Assessments are undertaken with regard to compliance with Group 
standards as part of the vetting process for new suppliers. We also audit our key suppliers annually to assess ongoing compliance with  
the Supply Chain Policy and other relevant Group standards. Wherever possible, we work with our suppliers to support them to address 
weaknesses identiﬁed. The Weir Group is committed to working only with third parties, including customers, sub-contractors, suppliers  
and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing the business terms and conditions with suppliers, including the terms of payment.  
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms. At 28 December 2012, the Group had an 
average of 68 days’ purchases outstanding in trade creditors. 
External sales agents 
The Group engages a number of external sales agents across the globe to act on its behalf in locations where it does not have a permanent 
sales presence, or in regard to speciﬁc projects. There is a sales agents’ manual which sets out the Group requirements with regard to 
appointing and reappointing agents, as well as the ongoing monitoring requirements. Due diligence is performed prior to all appointments 
and reappointments by the legal department. The standard Weir contract must be used, the terms of which include stipulation that agents 
must comply with the Code of Conduct. The agents are required to conﬁrm in writing their compliance with the Code of Conduct. 
Corporate Governance Report
Continued 65 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Gifts and hospitality 
We recognise that gifts and hospitality have the potential to create a conﬂict of interest, or the perception of a conﬂict of interest. As a result, 
there are Group policies with regard to receiving and giving gifts and hospitality from, and to, third parties. In no circumstances should gifts 
or hospitality be solicited, and they should not place the recipient under any obligation. 
All gifts and hospitality above the minimum threshold must be pre-approved using an online gifts and hospitality register. Internal Audit 
assesses compliance with the Group’s gifts and hospitality policies during audit visits and undertakes monthly reviews of the register. 
Reporting issues
The Group encourages our people to discuss any ethical concerns they may have with local management or the legal department.  
In addition, an independent and conﬁdential telephone helpline and an online reporting tool (the Weir Ethics Hotline) are available for  
our employees, partners and third parties to call or email with any concerns that they have concerning unethical behaviour. Calls to the 
helpline are free and lines are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Reports can be made in a wide range of languages reﬂecting  
our global footprint. 
Nineteen reports were submitted and investigated in 2012. Following suitable investigation, no action was required in ten cases, and the 
remaining cases were appropriately addressed through further training, policy or communication improvements or disciplinary process.  
Subject to conﬁdentiality considerations, the outcome of each investigation is provided in so far as is possible, via the Ethics Hotline,  
to the complainant. 
Remuneration
Details of the Weir Group’s Remuneration Committee can be found on page 56. Further information on the Committee, along with information 
on the Group’s overall remuneration structure, is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 80.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Company’s shareholders. During the 
period under review, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with 
analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of signiﬁcant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views 
of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so  
if requested by any major shareholder. The Company’s investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim 
results and meetings with individual investors as appropriate. Through this programme, the Company has directly engaged with 599 investors 
in 2012 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing. Independent feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.  
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Company’s 
shareholders, including private investors.
The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements are the primary means used by the Board for communicating during the 
year with all of the Company’s shareholders. The Board also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, 
quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders. Information available online 
includes copies of the full and half year ﬁnancial statements, press releases and Company news, corporate governance information, key 
dates in the ﬁnancial calendar and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their  
views and answer their questions about the Group and its business. The 2013 AGM is to be held on Wednesday 1 May 2013 at the Radisson 
Blu Hotel, Glasgow. The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant  
to the work of those Committees. It is the Company’s practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM.  
The Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and is also available to download from the Company’s 
website. The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll and the result of the votes (including proxies) is published on the 
Company’s website after the meeting. Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are included in the Notice of the AGM.
Keith Ruddock
Company Secretary
Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board
27 February 2013 66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Introduction
This is my ﬁrst report to shareholders following my appointment as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee at the 2012 AGM. I would like to thank Mike Dearden, my 
predecessor, who retired from the Board at that time, for his support to me in my new  
role. This report covers the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 and sets out the 
changes that we have implemented in respect of 2013. Since my appointment I have 
spent time with management understanding the purpose and detail of each element  
of our remuneration strategy. I have also met with a number of our major shareholders  
and their representative bodies to get their views on remuneration structures in the 
changing environment. I would like to thank them for sharing their views at these 
introductory meetings.
At the beginning of 2012, the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (‘BIS’) 
announced a series of executive remuneration reforms for consultation. The principal 
drivers are ‘pay for performance, not failure’, improved transparency (in particular the link 
between remuneration and Group strategy) and an increased ability for shareholders to 
hold companies to account in respect of executive pay. Weir supports, in principle, what 
the proposed reforms are trying to achieve and has contributed to the consultation 
process during the course of 2012. 
As debate continued around the reforms, the Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’)  
and Research, Recommendations and Electronic Voting (‘RREV’), together with a small 
number of major institutions, updated or issued their own principles of remuneration,  
with a common theme of simpliﬁcation. Weir again supports this objective, provided this  
is not inconsistent with the promotion of value creation and rewarding success fairly.
We look forward to continuing to engage with our shareholders, their representative 
bodies and BIS during the course of 2013, as we review our existing arrangements and 
prepare to implement the new rules in 2014.
In delivering a record ﬁnancial performance in 2012, the Group has dealt well with difﬁcult 
conditions in its principal markets. As set out in the Chief Executive’s Strategic Review,  
the beginning of the year saw a major and unexpected downturn in the upstream 
pressure-pumping markets and, in the second half, a slowdown in demand for iron ore  
and coal, with some associated project deferrals. These were in addition to the continuing 
challenging global economic environment, all of which continued into 2013. 
The management team identiﬁed the slowdown in upstream pressure-pumping markets 
early and reacted by rapidly introducing efﬁciency measures and realigning capacity to 
the strongest growth opportunities. In mining markets, the strategy to embrace diverse 
commodity exposure, high product quality and superior aftermarket capability of the 
Minerals Division, underpinned a good performance.  67 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
At the same time as taking early action to deal with market challenges, the management 
team has continued to focus on driving the Group’s long term value. Investment in 
technological innovation, supply chain capability and talent development across the 
Group have been features of 2012, as Weir continues to enhance its sources of 
competitive advantage. 
It was against this background that the Remuneration Committee reviewed the overall 
structure of our executive remuneration, including the balance between ﬁxed and variable 
pay, the pay policy of the Group as a whole and cost to shareholders. Speciﬁc items 
considered included the salaries of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, some 
minor amendments to the annual bonus scheme in 2013 and the 2013 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’) awards. 
The Committee believes that our overall remuneration policies and practices support 
our business strategy, including promoting the long term success of the business and 
our talent strategy. 
Further details of, and commentary on, the salary increases for the Chief Executive  
and the Finance Director, amendments to the bonus scheme and the LTIP, and fees  
for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are set out later in this Report. The key 
elements are brieﬂy summarised below: 
 – base salary increase for the Chief Executive from £700,000 to £725,000, an increase 
of 3.6 per cent and in line with the commitment made in 2010; 
 – base salary increase for the Finance Director from £420,000 to £440,000, an increase 
of 4.8 per cent; 
 – review of the bonus scheme with the introduction for Executive Directors of 20 per 
cent of total bonus potential to be contingent on meeting personal objectives, 80 per 
cent (previously 100 per cent) to remain contingent on the achievement of normalised 
Proﬁt Before Tax and Amortisation (‘PBTA’); 
 – changes to the earnings per share (‘EPS’) range for the LTIP to reﬂect the current 
environment that represent challenging and motivational targets for executives;
 – base fees increase for the Non-Executive Directors from £50,000 to £55,000; and
 – fees increase for the Chairman from £250,000 to £275,000. 
The Committee believes that the salary increases, which for the Chief Executive is in  
line with previous guidance, are justiﬁed by superior personal performance and that the 
amendments to the bonus scheme will further increase the alignment of remuneration 
with strategy. The Committee is conﬁdent that the targets for both the 2013 bonus 
scheme and LTIP are appropriately challenging. 
During the course of this year, the Remuneration Committee will continue to review  
the Group’s overall remuneration structure and engage with shareholders and their 
representative bodies as we formulate our remuneration policies for consideration  
at the AGM in 2014.
Melanie Gee 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report
Continued
Membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee 
Melanie Gee became Chairman of the Committee on 9 May 2012 taking over from Michael Dearden. The other members of the Committee 
are Lord Robertson and Richard Menell. During 2012, Keith Ruddock took on the role of Secretary for the Committee from Alan Mitchelson 
following his retirement during the year.
All members of the Committee are considered independent Non-Executive Directors and no individual plays a part in the determination of their 
own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee membership Appointed to the Committee End of tenure on Committee
Michael Dearden (outgoing Chairman) 11 May 2005 9 May 2012
Melanie Gee (incoming Chairman) 9 May 2012 –
Lord Robertson 8 December 2008 –
Richard Menell 29 July 2011 –
The Committee determines, within agreed terms of reference, speciﬁc remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and the other members of the Group Executive. The Committee also has regard  
to pay and conditions amongst the wider employee population. The Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found on the Group’s website. 
The Executive Directors are not involved in any discussions or debate regarding their own remuneration.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee 
The Committee undertook a selection process to appoint new advisors during 2011 and appointed PwC with effect from December 2011.  
PwC demonstrated a good track record in working with FTSE 100 companies, in shareholder engagement and advising on the wider regulatory 
environment. In the course of 2012, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the quality of the advice and was comfortable that PwC should 
continue to provide independent external advice to the Committee in relation to the Group’s executive remuneration policy and its implementation. 
The Committee recognises the need to obtain independent advice and given that PwC provides additional services to the Group, the 
Remuneration Chairman has discussed this with PwC and management. The Committee is conﬁdent that any potential conﬂicts are 
managed appropriately by the Company and PwC. For information, the additional services provided by PwC include advice on pension 
schemes, taxation, company secretariat services and global mobility services. PwC also provided internal audit services, due diligence  
and corporate ﬁnance advice in relation to acquisitions and advice in relation to the Group’s carbon emissions and sustainability strategy. 
Remuneration Committee agenda 2012
The Committee met ﬁve times in 2012. The annual agenda usually covers the undernoted topics. However, any other non-cyclical agenda 
items that occur within the Committee’s Terms of Reference may also be included. For example, in 2012 the agenda included the BIS 
consultation on remuneration reform as an additional item.
Committee meeting 2012 agenda items
January 2012 Approve 2011 bonus payments for the Group Executive.
Note the remuneration of the Group Executive for 2012.
Update on responses to the 2012 remuneration changes letter sent to investors. 
February 2012 Note details of the 2011 bonus payments to be paid to senior executives.
Approve the vesting of the 2009 LTIP based on performance testing.
Approve the participants and performance conditions of the 2012 LTIP award.
Approve Deferred Bonus Plan share awards from 2011 bonus to senior executives.
Consider the Remuneration Report to shareholders.
July 2012 Review of interim LTIP awards for new joiners.
Update on BIS consultation on remuneration reform.
September 2012 Review of remuneration climate and the new proposed requirements under the BIS legislation.
Performance updates under the LTIP for existing awards.
December 2012 Proposed amendments and targets for 2013 annual bonus plan.
Proposed performance measures and award levels for the 2013 LTIP.
Review salary proposals for wider Group.
Review salaries for Executives Directors for 2013.
Feedback from 2012 AGM and recent shareholder meetings.
Review proposed changes in light of overall business and remuneration strategy.
Review of Terms of Reference. 69 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Remuneration policy for Group executives 
The Group’s overarching remuneration policy is designed to ensure that remuneration supports the Group’s strategy and business objectives. 
The policy has been developed to support the creation of value for shareholders, drive appropriate behaviours and incentivise outperformance 
while being clearly linked to individual and corporate performance. The Remuneration Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders  
in setting this policy and considers best practice guidelines from shareholders and their representative bodies. The Committee has adopted  
a set of principles which are used as the basis upon which the remuneration arrangements are reviewed each year.
The Group’s remuneration principles are that reward should enable the Group to:
 – attract, motivate and retain senior executives with the necessary abilities to manage and develop the Group’s activities successfully  
for the beneﬁt of shareholders;
 – clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long term interests of the Group and its shareholders;
 – drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the culture of the Group and focus executives on the critical business objectives  
by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria; and
 – provide a signiﬁcant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans for all senior executives.
During the course of 2013, the Remuneration Committee will review proposals for the Group’s overall remuneration structure and its application 
in 2014 and beyond. The Committee will engage with shareholders and their representative bodies as the Company develops an enduring 
remuneration policy that will operate effectively through the business cycle.
To ensure the interests of management remain aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding 
in the Company of 100% of base salary over a ﬁve year period. This may be achieved by purchasing shares or retaining a proportion of share 
awards that vest. An element of the annual bonus must be deferred into shares.
Further details of each element of the reward framework for Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on the following pages.
  70 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Elements of remuneration for Executive Directors in 2012
The following table sets out how each element of the Executive Directors’ reward package operated in 2012 and changes for 2013.
Purpose Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Performance metrics,
weightings and period Key changes in 2013
Base salary
To attract and retain 
talented leaders.
Reviewed annually by  
reference to personal 
performance, the wider 
employee context, 
economic and labour  
market conditions, and 
similar sized companies.
– – Chief Executive’s salary  
will increase from £700,000 
to £725,000 (3.6%).
Finance Director’s salary  
will increase from £420,000 
to £440,000 (4.8%).
Pension and beneﬁts
To provide a market  
aligned beneﬁts package.
Beneﬁts include:  
car allowance; Group  
healthcare; travel  
allowance; and death  
in service insurance.
The Group makes no  
provision for Executive 
Directors’ pensions. 
––No change.
Annual bonus
To reward the  
achievement of  
stretching Group 
performance for  
the current year.
Based on in-year  
performance  
against targets.
Targets are approved by the 
Remuneration Committee  
prior to the beginning  
of the performance year. 
30% of bonus is 
compulsorily deferred into 
shares under the LTIP. 
Additional 25% of bonus 
may be voluntarily deferred 
into shares for the Chief 
Executive and 20% for  
other Executive Directors.
150% of salary for  
Chief Executive.
100% of salary for other 
Executive Directors.
100% of the annual  
bonus is based on the 
achievement of normalised 
PBTA targets measured over 
the ﬁnancial year, subject to 
overall Group performance 
during that period.
20% of overall bonus  
based on personal 
performance targets.
80% remains based  
on normalised PBTA.
Long Term Incentive Plan – performance shares
To incentivise executives  
to achieve sustained  
growth through superior 
long term performance  
and create alignment  
with shareholders.
Policy is to make awards  
of 100% of salary for  
Executive Directors.
Performance shares  
are entitled to dividend 
equivalents between  
award and vesting  
in the form of shares.
200% of salary can be 
awarded in exceptional 
circumstances.
Performance conditions 
measured over three 
ﬁnancial years.
Performance measures  
and relative weightings are:
–  Growth in EPS of 7%  
to 15% per annum  
(50% weighting);
–  Total Shareholder Return 
(‘TSR’) relative to comparator 
group of global engineering 
companies (50% weighting).
Realignment of EPS  
target range based on 
internal and external 
forecasts. The range  
has moved to 5% to  
11% per annum.
Addition of one company to 
the TSR comparator group.
Long Term Incentive Plan – matching shares
To supplement the  
long term elements  
of pay and further  
align executives  
to the interests of  
shareholders through  
the development of a 
signiﬁcant shareholding  
in the Group.
The compulsory and  
voluntary deferred  
elements of the bonus 
attract conditional  
matching shares and  
are subject to clawback.
Compulsory investment  
and matching shares  
are entitled to dividend 
equivalents between  
award and vesting  
in the form of shares.
200% of the deferred 
annual bonus subject to 
performance conditions.
Performance conditions 
measured over three 
ﬁnancial years.
Performance measures  
and relative weightings are:
–  Growth in EPS of 7%  
to 15% per annum 
(50% weighting);
–  TSR relative to comparator 
group of global engineering 
companies (50% weighting).
Realignment of EPS  
target range based on 
internal and external 
forecasts. The range  
has moved to 5% to  
11% per annum.
Addition of one company to 
the TSR comparator group.
Remuneration Report
Continued 71 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
0 20406080 100
Maximum remuneration
Target remuneration
Base salary
Annual bonus LTIP performance shares
LTIP matching shares
0 20406080 100
Base salary
Annual bonus LTIP performance shares
LTIP matching shares
Maximum remuneration
Target remuneration
Purpose Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Performance metrics,
weightings and period Key changes in 2013
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
To attract and retain 
experienced and skilled 
Non-Executive Directors.
Reviewed annually by 
reference to companies of 
similar size, economic and 
labour market conditions as 
well as time commitment 
and responsibilities. 
– – Chairman and Non-
Executive Director fees will 
change from 1 April 2013. 
Details can be found on 
page 73.
Remuneration scenarios
A key element of the Group’s remuneration policy is to provide a signiﬁcant part of potential reward through performance based incentive 
plans. Set out below is the reward mix for both Executive Directors at target performance and maximum performance. The package  
is broadly structured so that for maximum performance at least 75% of the overall package is delivered through variable pay. As such  
the aggregate level of remuneration received by each of the Executive Directors demonstrates a clear relationship between delivery of 
performance and total remuneration. 
Chief Executive (%) Finance Director (%)
The scenarios presented above demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration that is achieved by each remuneration element  
at maximum and target performance. Target performance is based on an assessment of the proportion of maximum award that would be 
paid should budgeted performance levels be met. 
Material factors taken into account when setting the remuneration policy 
The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and is keen to engage where appropriate on key areas of policy 
setting and implementation. The Committee has considered the following in developing the changes for 2013:
 – Annual General Meeting feedback
 The Committee has considered the feedback provided by shareholders, the ABI and RREV from the 2012 AGM. Any review of the Group’s 
remuneration strategy would take into regard such comments. 
 – Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 
 The Committee has taken into consideration the proposed changes outlined in the BIS revised remuneration reporting regulations. 
 – The wider employee context
 In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors’ and Group Executive salaries, the Committee has considered the increases  
to pay levels across the broader employee population, which in the UK are up to 4.5%, although they can be above this ﬁgure for  
exceptional candidates.
 – Shareholder engagement
 The Committee has written to our major shareholders and their representative bodies informing them of the changes to the Executive 
Directors’ base salaries as well as other changes to be implemented in 2013. 
Elements of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors in 2012 72 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Service contracts 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual 
entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders. 
The details of the service contracts, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive 
Directors who served during the 2012 ﬁnancial year are set out in the table below.
Non-Executive Director Contract commencement date Expiry of current term Notice period by the individual Notice period by the Company
Michael Dearden* 17 February 2003––– 
Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 May 2013 – 6 months
Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 May 2013 – 6 months
Stephen King* 3 February 2006––– 
Richard Menell 1 April 2009 May 2013 6 months 6 months
John Mogford 1 June 2008 May 2013 6 months 6 months
Lord Robertson 1 February 2004 May 2013 6 months 6 months
Lord Smith 18 August 2003 May 2013 6 months 6 months
*Michael Dearden and Stephen King resigned from the Board at the AGM in May 2012.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
All the Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company. The respective notice periods contained 
within these are detailed below. 
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’s service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, 
when determining what compensation, if any, should properly be paid by the Group to the departing Executive Director, will give full consideration 
to the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
The details of the service contracts in relation to the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below.
Executive Director Contract commencement date Unexpired term Notice period by the individual Notice period by the Company
Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 12 months 12 months 12 months
Alan Mitchelson* 12 December 2001 – – –
Jon Stanton 19 April 2010 12 months 6 months 12 months
*Alan Mitchelson resigned from the Board at the AGM in May 2012.
To recruit the best executives, the Committee may in the future agree contractual notice periods which initially exceed 12 months, particularly 
if it is necessary to attract executives who will be required to relocate their families. 
Executive Directors’ external appointments
The Executive Directors are permitted, with Board agreement, to take up one non-executive appointment provided there is no conﬂict of interest 
and that the time spent would not impinge on their work for the Group. It is the Group’s policy that remuneration earned from such appointments 
may be kept by the individual Executive Director. No Executive Director received remuneration for external appointments during 2012.
 
Executive Directors’ salaries for 2013
In the 2010 Remuneration Report, the Committee outlined its intention to increase the Chief Executive’s salary to a target level of £725,000  
over a three year period, which received shareholder support. This was subject to individual and company performance, including the Group’s 
ﬁnancial success and the maintenance of its ranking in the FTSE 100. The Committee is satisﬁed that the required conditions have been 
achieved in 2012 and has approved the ﬁnal increase to take his salary to £725,000 from April 2013.
The Committee has also decided that an adjustment be made to the Finance Director’s salary from £420,000 to £440,000, an increase  
of 4.8%. The Committee took account of the Finance Director’s individual performance as well as that of the Group, and guidelines for pay 
increases for UK employees which are up to 4.5% for 2013, although can be above this ﬁgure for exceptional candidates. 
Remuneration Report
Continued 73 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2013
The Chairman’s fee is agreed by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee. Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined 
by the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors’ fees and Chairman’s fees are reviewed annually and 
changes were last made in 2011. In determining fee levels for 2013, the following was taken into account: time commitment, the scale of role, 
general market practice and comparison with companies of an equivalent size based on information provided by PwC. As a result of this 
review in 2012, it has been determined that the following will apply from April 2013: 
 – Chairman’s fee is £275,000 per annum (2012: £250,000).
 – Non-Executive Directors’ base fee is £55,000 per annum (2012: £50,000) . 
 – Additional fees of £10,000 per annum (2012: £10,000) are paid to the Audit Committee Chairman and the Remuneration  
Committee Chairman.
 – Additional fees of £10,000 per annum (2012: £5,000) are paid to the Senior Independent Director.
 – Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors, where appropriate, to reﬂect the additional time commitment  
in attending intercontinental Board meetings and operational visits. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s incentive plans or receive a pension or other beneﬁts. The same is true  
for the Chairman except for an entitlement to participate in the Group healthcare scheme. 
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
 
Remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors
The Weir Group has outperformed both the FTSE 100 and its comparator group used for the LTIP on a total shareholder return basis over  
a ﬁve year period.
The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group against the FTSE 100 Index and the comparator group used for awards made 
under the LTIP in 2012. 
The Weir Group PLC
FTSE 100 Index
2012 LTIP comparator group
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
50
100
150
200
250
300
Total Shareholder Return performance chart (indexed)
The chart above shows the value, as at 28 December 2012, of £100 invested in The Weir Group PLC shares over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years compared with the value of £100 invested  
in the FTSE 100 Index and the average of the 2012 comparator group under the LTIP, details of which can be found on page 77. Each point plotted is at the end of each ﬁnancial year.  74 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Directors’ remuneration
The following table sets out the remuneration received by the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors during the year. The table and 
accompanying notes are subject to audit. 
Notes
Salary & 
fees
£
Bonus
(note 7)
£
Beneﬁts
(note 8)
£
Total
2012
£
Total
2011
£
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: 
Michael Dearden
1
23,250 – – 23,250 62,500 
Alan Ferguson
2
60,000 – – 60,000 6,288 
Melanie Gee
3
56,452 – – 56,452 32,930 
Stephen King
4
21,462 – – 21,462 58,125 
Richard Menell 50,000 – – 50,000 48,750 
John Mogford 50,000 – – 50,000 48,750 
Lord Robertson
5
53,238 – – 53,238 48,750 
Lord Smith 250,000 – 498 250,498 233,614 
564,402 – 498 564,900 539,707 
Executive Directors:
Keith Cochrane 687,500 568,584 23,001 1,279,085 1,621,645
Alan Mitchelson
6
141,154 94,764 5,238 241,156 708,584
Jon Stanton 415,000 227,433 14,466 656,899 806,957 
1,808,056 890,781 43,203 2,742,040 3,676,893
Previous year comparatives 1,900,845 1,725,000 51,048
Notes   
1.  The fees for Michael Dearden, who resigned on 9 May 2012, include £3,577 for services as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (2011: £10,000) and £1,788 for his role as  
Senior Independent Director (2011: £5,000).     
2. The fees for Alan Ferguson include £10,000 for services as Chairman of the Audit Committee.    
3. The fees for Melanie Gee include £6,452 for services as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from her appointment on 9 May 2012.
4. The fees for Stephen King, who resigned on 9 May 2012, include £3,577 for services as Chairman of the Audit Committee (2011: £10,000).
5. The fees for Lord Robertson include £3,238 for services as Senior Independent Director from 9 May 2012.  
6.  Salary, car allowance and beneﬁts for Alan Mitchelson cover the period up to 9 May 2012 for when he was an Executive Director of the Group. Salary includes pay for outstanding 
holiday entitlement.      
7.  The bonus ﬁgures for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton include £170,575 (2011: £292,500) and £68,230 (2011: £120,000) respectively, which will be compulsorily deducted from their 
bonus in exchange for which they will be awarded investment shares which, subject to remaining employed with the Group, will be receivable on the third anniversary of the 2013 award.
8.  Beneﬁts include, as appropriate, car allowance, private medical and death in service insurance premiums, and travel expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance 
at business functions and other corporate events.           
 
Remuneration Report
Continued 75 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Chief 
Executive
Finance 
Director
Maximum annual bonus opportunity 
2012 actual bonus achieved
Compulsory deferral
Percentage of base salary
25
50
75
125
100
150
Annual bonus outcome 2012
Variable pay awarded in the year
Annual bonus outcome
The Group operates an annual bonus plan for Executive Directors as set out in the section of this Report on remuneration policy for  
Group executives. Annual bonus awards for 2012 were based entirely on normalised PBTA targets. In 2012, the Group delivered above 
threshold performance resulting in bonus payouts of 54% of the maximum bonus available for the Executive Directors. 
The chart below illustrates the percentage of salary that is attainable for each of the Executive Directors at maximum performance.  
In addition, the 2012 outcome of the annual bonus plan is also illustrated for each Executive Director demonstrating the proportion  
of compulsory deferred bonus.
In line with the Group’s remuneration policy, Executive Directors were required to defer 30% of their bonus under the LTIP, in exchange for 
which they are awarded investment shares. In addition to the compulsory deferral, the Chief Executive and Finance Director may voluntarily 
defer an additional 25% and 20% respectively of the remaining net bonus received to be converted into shares. The deferral will result in  
a matching award of shares of up to 200% the pre-tax value of the original deferral, subject to the performance conditions described on  
page 77. 
Compulsory investment and matching shares are entitled to dividend equivalents between award and vesting, paid in additional shares  
at the end of the performance period. 
Annual bonus changes for 2013
The Committee has reviewed the overall structure and operation of the annual bonus plan during the year with consideration of market 
practice and alignment with the Group’s business and remuneration strategies. It believes that the primary focus should remain on 
proﬁtability. However, the Committee has approved the introduction of a personal element of bonus which will provide focus on critical 
business goals. Major shareholders, the ABI and RREV were informed about the proposed changes which will come into effect from 2013. 
These are outlined below. 
 – Introduction of a set of individual performance measures designed to create stronger line of sight between individual efforts and annual  
bonus outcomes. This will represent 20% of the maximum annual bonus potential. For 2013, half of this 20% will be based on working  
capital targets.
 – A corresponding reduction in the weighting of the normalised PBTA element to 80% of the maximum annual bonus potential.
 – The Committee has reviewed the targets and payout structure under both elements of the bonus and is satisﬁed that the bonus  
for 2013 is sufﬁciently challenging, with stretching performance required for maximum payout. 
The deferral elements and matching elements of the bonus under the LTIP are unchanged.  76 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
-10
90
190
290
390
490
The Weir Group
Senior
IMI
John Wood Group
Tomkins
Morgan Crucible Company
Meggitt
Rolls-Royce
Rotork
Bodycote
Spirax-Sarco Engineering
Halma
Cookson Group
Mitie Group
Smiths Group
WS Atkins
AGA Rangemaster Group
TSR comparator group ranking
TSR %
-50
50
150
250
350
450
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Senior
The Weir Group
Bodycote
John Wood Group
IMI
Rotork
Spirax-Sarco Engineering
Halma
Rolls-Royce
Tomkins
Morgan Crucible Company
Meggitt
Vesuvius
WS Atkins
Mitie Group
Smiths Group
AGA Rangemaster Group
TSR comparator group ranking
TSR %
LTIP outcome
In 2012, performance conditions for the 2009 LTIP awards were tested to determine the level of vesting achieved. The 2009 awards vested  
in full, along with the deferred elements of the 2008 annual bonus. This was based on the Group ranking ﬁrst in the TSR comparator group 
and EPS outperforming the UK Retail Prices Index over the performance period.
Relative TSR outcome for 2009 Long Term Share Incentive Plan
Relative TSR outcome for 2010 Long Term Share Incentive Plan
For the 2010 LTIP award, which is due to vest in 2013, based on the performance period of three years ending 31 December 2012, Weir ranked 
second in the TSR comparator group which will result in maximum payout under this element of the LTIP. For the EPS measure, growth was 
32.79%, which is greater than the target of 11% per annum for full vesting, and therefore 100% of this part of the award will also vest. 
TSR is based on performance over three consecutive ﬁnancial years, beginning with the year in which the award is made. Between upper 
quintile and median performance, awards vest on a straight-line basis. The TSR calculation is performed by PwC for the Committee.
The EPS growth measure is adjusted to exclude intangibles, amortisation and exceptional items. 
During the course of the performance period, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies making 
up the comparator group where events happen which cause the Committee to consider that such change is appropriate to ensure a fair 
measure of performance. 
Detail of LTIP awards made in the year
It is the Group’s remuneration policy to ensure that a signiﬁcant part of potential reward is delivered through performance based incentive 
plans. Proper alignment between the interests of management and the interests of shareholders also forms an important part of this policy. 
Therefore, in line with the LTIP normal grant policy, awards of 100% of salary were granted to the Executive Directors in 2012. 
In addition, they received investment shares in exchange for the compulsory deferred element of their bonus, which, along with any voluntary 
investment shares, are subject to matching shares on the third anniversary of the award if the performance conditions are met.
Remuneration Report
Continued 77 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
It is the intention of the Committee to continue to make awards of 100% of salary for Executive Directors in 2013. 
Performance conditions associated with the 2012 LTIP award are outlined below along with the conditions that will be used for awards made 
in 2013. The Committee believes that a balance between EPS and relative TSR is appropriate and aligned to the Group’s long term strategic 
goals of driving sustained earnings performance and shareholder value creation. 
The Committee believes that targets for incentives should be stretching but also motivational to executives. It is mindful of the challenging 
environment the Group is currently operating in and as such has reviewed the EPS targets for the 2013 LTIP award. The targets have been 
lowered to reﬂect internal and external growth forecasts to give a range of 5% to 11% per annum. The Committee is conﬁdent that this range  
is sufﬁciently challenging and is consistent with our remuneration strategy. 
The Committee has also reviewed the TSR comparator group to ensure that the companies included remain relevant and has added Fenner plc 
to the comparator group for the 2013 award, to bring the total number of peers to 25. 
The table below sets out the performance conditions applicable to the outstanding LTIP awards and the LTIP award due to be made in 2013.
Performance conditions for the LTIP
2010 2011 2012 2013
TSR Yes Yes Yes Yes
Weighting 50% 50% 50% 50%
Target 
structure
Relative 
TSR growth 
against 
comparator 
group
Percentage 
of the TSR 
portion of  
the award 
that vests
Relative 
TSR growth 
against 
comparator 
group
Percentage 
of the TSR 
portion of  
the award 
that vests
Relative 
TSR growth 
against 
comparator 
group
Percentage 
of the TSR 
portion of the 
award that 
vests
Relative 
TSR growth 
against 
comparator 
group
Percentage 
of the TSR 
portion of  
the award 
that vests
Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100%
Median 25% Median 25% Median 25% Median 25%
Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0%
Comparator 
group
1
AGA Rangemaster Group, 
Bodycote, Halma, IMI, 
Meggitt, Mitie Group,  
Morgan Crucible Company, 
Rolls-Royce, Rotork, Senior, 
Smiths Group, Spirax-Sarco 
Engineering, Tomkins
3
, 
Vesuvius
4
, Wood Group,  
WS Atkins
AMEC
5
, Cameron, Crane, 
Dover, Dresser Rand, FL 
Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, 
Gardner Denver, Halma, IMI, 
Joy Global, Lufkin, Meggitt, 
Melrose, Metso, Outotec, 
Rotork, Smiths Group,  
Spirax-Sarco Engineering, 
SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius
4
,  
Wood Group
AMEC
5
, Cameron, Crane, 
Dover, Dresser Rand, FL 
Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, 
Gardner Denver, Halma, IMI, 
Joy Global, Lufkin, Meggitt, 
Melrose, Metso, Outotec, 
Rotork, Smiths Group,  
Spirax-Sarco Engineering, 
SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius
4
,
  
Wood Group
AMEC
5
, Cameron, Crane, 
Dover, Dresser Rand, Fenner, 
FL Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, 
Gardner Denver, Halma, IMI, 
Joy Global, Lufkin, Meggitt, 
Melrose, Metso, Outotec, 
Rotork, Smiths Group,  
Spirax-Sarco Engineering, 
SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius
4
,  
Wood Group
Growth  
in EPS
2
Yes Yes Yes Yes
Weighting 50% 50% 50% 50%
Target 
structure 
EPS growth percentage  
of EPS 
portion of  
the award  
that vests
EPS growth percentage  
of EPS 
portion of  
the award  
that vests
EPS growth percentage  
of EPS 
portion of  
the award  
that vests
EPS growth percentage  
of EPS 
portion of  
the award  
that vests
11% p.a. 100% 15% p.a. 100% 15% p.a. 100% 11% p.a. 100%
4% p.a. 25% 7% p.a. 25% 7% p.a. 25% 5% p.a. 25%
Less than  
4% p.a.
0% Less than 
7% p.a.
0% Less than  
7% p.a.
0% Less than  
5% p.a.
0%
Performance 
periods
Single 3 year performance 
period for both elements
Single 3 year performance 
period for both elements
Single 3 year performance 
period for both elements
Single 3 year performance 
period for both elements
Notes
1.  It is the intention that the group comprises approximately 40% UK based companies, 40% US based companies, with the remainder based in Europe. In addition, the market 
capitalisations of these companies should range from approximately £3.5bn below Weir Group to £3.5bn above.
2. Adjusted to exclude intangibles, amortisation and exceptional items.
3. Tomkins delisted on 21 September 2010 and has been retained in the comparator group for the 2010 award with their TSR based on their share price at the time of delisting. 
4.  Cookson Group demerged on 1 November 2012, with the new company Alent Plc being separated from the rest of the business, which has been renamed Vesuvius Plc. Vesuvius Plc 
will succeed Cookson Group in the comparator group. 
5. Charter plc was acquired during 2011 and has been replaced by AMEC in the comparator group. 78 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Total shareholdings of directors
Long Term Incentive Plan awards 
The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit. 
Notes
Date of 
award
Number 
of shares 
under 
award as 
at 31 Dec 
2011
Shares 
granted 
during year
Shares 
lapsed/did 
not vest 
during the 
year
Shares 
exercised 
during the 
year
Number 
of shares 
under 
award as 
at 28 Dec 
2012 
(note 3)
Market 
price at 
date of 
award
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting
Market value 
at date of 
vesting 
Normal 
exercise 
period  
(note 4)
Keith Cochrane  
LTIP – 
performance 
& matching 
shares
1
16 Mar 09 155,257 ––155,257– 400p 1,787p £2,774,443 –
15 Mar 10 84,838 –– –84,838 923p – – 15 Mar –  
15 Jun 13
7
17 Mar 11 83,161 – – – 83,161 1606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
7
9 Mar 12 – 83,526 – – 83,526 1965p – – 9 Mar –  
9 Jun 15
LTIP – 
compulsory 
investment 
shares
 
16 Mar 09 19,715 – – 19,715 – 400p 1,787p £352,307 –
15 Mar 10 10,181 – – – 10,181 923p – – 15 Mar –  
15 Jun 13
7
17 Mar 11 13,162 – – – 13,162 1,606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
7
9 Mar 12 – 15,023 – – 15,023 1,965p – – 9 Mar –  
9 Jun 15
366,314 98,549 – 174,972 289,891
Alan Mitchelson
LTIP – 
performance 
& matching 
shares
1
16 Mar 09 124,995 – – 124,995 – 400p 1,787p £2,233,661 –
15 Mar 10 49,581 – – – 49,581 923p – – 15 Mar –  
15 Jun 13
7
17 Mar 11 34,838 – – – 34,838 1,606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
LTIP – 
compulsory 
investment 
shares
16 Mar 09 16,666 – – 16,666 400p 1,787p £297,821 –
15 Mar 10 5,731 – – – 5,731 923p – – 15 Mar –  
15 Jun 13
7
17 Mar 11 6,251 – – – 6,251 1,606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
238,062 – – 141,661 96,401
Jon Stanton
LTIP – 
performance 
& matching 
shares
1
9 Aug 10 30,204 – – – 30,204 1,240p – – 9 Aug –  
9 Nov 13
7
17 Mar 11 35,606 – – – 35,606 1,606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
7
9 Mar 12 – 33,899 – – 33,899 1,965p – – 9 Mar –  
9 Jun 15
LTIP – 
compulsory 
investment 
shares
7
17 Mar 11 5,040 – – – 5,040 1,606p – – 17 Mar –  
17 Jun 14
7
9 Mar 12 – 6,163 – – 6,163 1,965p – – 9 Mar –  
9 Jun 15
70,850 40,062 – – 110,912
Notes           
1. The ﬁgures shown are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out on page 77.
2. Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility.
3. The number of shares under award for Alan Mitchelson is at 9 May 2012.
4.  Awards under the LTIP can be exercised after the third anniversary of the award date, subject to the performance conditions. No expiry date is shown if the award was exercised or 
lapsed in the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012. 
5.  On 16 March 2012, the 2009 awards under the LTIP vested in full. As a result Keith Cochrane and Alan Mitchelson exercised their awards as set out above, selling 92,020 and 74,559 
shares respectively to pay the relevant tax and national insurance and retaining the balance. The aggregate gains made on all award exercises by directors during the year totalled 
£5,658,232 (2011: £3,255,092).  
6. The closing market price of the Group’s shares at 28 December 2012 was 1,876p and the range for the year was 1,352p to 2,243p. 
7. The awards granted in 2011 and 2012 have a right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares payable at vesting.
Remuneration Report
Continued 79 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Directors’ interests
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 28 December 2012 and at the end of the preceding ﬁnancial period 
were as follows:
As at 28 December 2012 As at 30 December 2011
Shares LTIP awards Shares LTIP awards
Keith Cochrane 207,683 289,891 120,658 366,314
Alan Ferguson 2,730 – ––
Melanie Gee 2,500 – ––
Richard Menell 1,000 – 1,000 –
John Mogford 11,481 – 7,981 –
Lord Robertson 10,650 – 10,000 –
Lord Smith 163,400 – 159,000 –
Jon Stanton 3,000 110,912 3,000 70,850
Notes     
1.  No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any signiﬁcance in relation to the Group’s business, in any debenture stocks of the Company, 
or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary. 
2. There have been no changes to the Directors’ interests between 28 December 2012 and 27 February 2013.
     
Total pension entitlements
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are responsible for their own pension arrangements. 
Alan Mitchelson was an active member of the Company’s 1972 pension and life assurance plan until 31 December 2011 when he ceased to 
accrue further beneﬁts and became a deferred member. The plan is a contributory deﬁned beneﬁt plan with the active members contributing 
8% of salary. 
The balance of the cost of the plan is met by the Group having taken account of the trustee’s opinion arrived at by considering the funding 
recommendations of the plan’s independent actuary. 
The plan targets a pension of two thirds of ﬁnal salary payable at normal retirement date, providing a member then has at least 24 years’ 
pensionable service. Where a member has less than 24 years’ pensionable service to normal retirement date their pension currently accrues 
at 1/36th of ﬁnal salary per annum. 
For members, salary (both for contributions and for plan beneﬁts) is subject to a plan speciﬁc earnings cap. This is currently £137,400. 
The plan provides for a surviving spouse’s pension of one half of the member’s pension (before any exchange for cash) and, in certain 
circumstances, for a dependent child’s pension until the child attains the age of 23 years. 
Pension built up prior to April 2006 increases in payment by the annual increase in the retail prices index up to a maximum of 5%. For pension 
built up after April 2006, the annual increase is limited to a maximum of 2.5%. Deferred pensions are revalued between the date of exit and 
normal retirement date in line with statute.  80 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
The following table and its corresponding notes detailing pension entitlement and the corresponding transfer values during the period is 
subject to audit.
Name of Director Notes
Accrued 
pension as at 
31 December 
2011
Increase 
in accrued 
pension during 
the period
Accrued 
pension as at 
28 December 
2012
(note 1)
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension as at 
31 December 
2011  
(note 2)
Change in 
transfer value 
of accrued 
pension during 
the year net 
of director’s 
ordinary 
contributions 
(note 3)
Director’s 
ordinary 
contributions
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension as at 
31 December 
2011  
(note 2)
Transfer 
value of 
increase (net 
of inﬂation) 
(note 2)
Alan Mitchelson 4,5,6,7,8 40,422 3,355 43,777 983,807 20,880 – 1,004,687 76,997
Notes
1. The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement, prior to any cash commutation, at the end of the year.
2.  With effect from 1 October 2008, Government legislation requires the Trustees (having taken actuarial advice) to take responsibility for setting the assumptions underlying the 
calculation of voluntary transfer values to be paid from the plan. Prior to this date the scheme actuary had this responsibility. Consequently, the transfer values of the accrued  
pension entitlement have been calculated in accordance with this revised requirement.
3. The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year is made up of the following elements:
 a. transfer value of the increase in accrued pension; 
 b. decrease in the transfer value of accrued pension at year start due to ageing since Alan Mitchelson has passed his normal retirement date;
 c. impact of any change in the economic or mortality assumptions underlying the transfer value basis – as referred to in 2, above;
 d. less the director’s ordinary contributions.
4.  The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year includes the effect of ﬂuctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Group and directors,  
such as stock market movements, which will be reﬂected within 3c, above. The Consumer Prices Inﬂation measure for leavers from the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme during 2012 with  
at least one year remaining until their normal retirement was 2.5%. Since Alan Mitchelson left the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in 2011 after his normal retirement date and as at the year  
end had not vested any of his retirement beneﬁts, the rate of inﬂation assumed in the above ﬁgures is 0%. 
5.  Directors have the option to pay voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting beneﬁts are included in the above table.
6.  The ﬁgures for Alan Mitchelson allow for the impact of the plan speciﬁc earnings cap, his restricted salary for pension accrued from April 2010 and the late retirement factor from  
1 January 2012. Alan Mitchelson does not have an entitlement to an excepted (formerly known as unapproved) pension from the Group and, as at the year end, had not vested  
any of his retirement beneﬁts under the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme provided by the Group.
7. Payment of actual transfer values (from the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme of which Alan Mitchelson is a member) are not currently reduced below 100% of their full value.
8. Alan Mitchelson ceased to be an Executive Director with effect from 9 May 2012.
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board
27 February 2013
Remuneration Report
Continued 81 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
IV
III
II
I
Other Statutory Information
2013 Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday 1 May 2013 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow. The Notice 
of AGM along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this 
Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
Substantial shareholders 
At 27 February 2013, the Company had been notiﬁed in accordance with the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 
that the following held, or were beneﬁcially interested in, 3% or more of the Company’s issued share capital. 
Shareholder Number of shares Percentage of issued share capital
Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 11,109,972 5.23%
AXA 10,613,765 5.02%
Legal & General 9,978,391 4.70%
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 8,475,979 3.99%
FMR Corp 6,425,000 3.09%
Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased. No requirement 
to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number 
percentage level. The percentage level may increase (if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares)  
or decrease (on the issue of new shares under the LTIP). 
Material contracts 
There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company. 
Employment policy and involvement 
The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group ﬁnancial statements on page 99. 
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of 
operation. Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, 
sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the 
needs of the Group. The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion  
and career development. 
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged. A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including  
a Group-wide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local brieﬁngs. These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development of  
a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance. 
Financial instruments 
The information required in respect of ﬁnancial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group ﬁnancial statements on page 127 to 135. 
Share capital and rights attaching to the Company’s shares 
Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p each, are set out  
in note 25 to the Group ﬁnancial statements on page 121. The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements 
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights. 
The Weir Group has two employee beneﬁt trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Limited (the ‘Kleinwort EBT’) 
and one with the trustees Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited (the ‘Appleby EBT’).
During the period, the 2009 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 70,967 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy 
the LTIP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market. A further 624,531 ordinary shares were transferred out  
of treasury to satisfy awards under the LTIP. In addition, a total of 550,277 ordinary shares, with an aggregate value of £68,784.63, were allotted 
during the period in connection with the Company’s LTIP. 
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect of awards  
which have a dividend entitlement. Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group ﬁnancial statements on page 121. The 
Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K.B. (CI) Nominees Limited, 0.06% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 28 December 2012, 
in trust for the beneﬁt of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group. The Appleby EBT holds, through account nominee, Forest 
Nominees Limited, 0.07% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 28 December 2012. 0.02% of this is held in trust for the beneﬁt of 
certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.05% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction of any future vesting of the Weir Group 
Deferred Bonus Plan. The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees. The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with the 
shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see ﬁt, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons 
for their decision. 82 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Repurchase of shares 
At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Company’s authority to make market purchases of up to 21.12m ordinary 
shares (representing 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares). No shares were purchased under this authority during the  
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval to 
renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases. 
Voting rights 
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and 
entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The Notice of the AGM speciﬁes deadlines for exercising voting rights and 
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by 
electronic poll. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM 
and published on the Company’s website after the meeting. 
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders. 
Transfer of shares 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association: 
 – The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certiﬁcated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will not be 
exercised so as to disturb the market in the Company’s shares. 
 – The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certiﬁcated share unless it is delivered to the registrar’s ofﬁce, or such other 
place as the Directors have speciﬁed, accompanied by a certiﬁcate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the 
Directors may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor. 
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer  
of shares. 
Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors 
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
Company’s Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation. 
Change of control – signiﬁcant agreements 
The following signiﬁcant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration 
or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company. 
The Group has in place a four year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 banks due to mature in September 
2014. Under the terms of these agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company any lender may request, by not less than 30 days’ 
notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice 
period.
The Group has in place a three year US$300m amortising term loan with Banc of America Securities Limited and HSBC Bank plc, 
coterminous with the revolving credit facility. Under the terms of these agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company either 
lender may request, by not less than 30 days’ notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be 
repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
The Company has in issue ﬁxed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% due on  
11 January 2015, £12m at an interest rate of 4.58% due on 11 January 2015, US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018, 
£43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 16 February 2019, US$590m  
at an interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023. Under the terms 
of the applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by  
the Company within seven days of the change of control. The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer of prepayment 
by the Company.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofﬁce or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Keith Ruddock
Company Secretary 
Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 
27 February 2013
Other Statutory Information
Continued IV
III
II
I
83 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance 
that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, 
we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 28 December 2012 and of its proﬁt for the 52 weeks then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the directors’ statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern; and
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 – certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Company ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks to 28 December 2012 and  
on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
James Douglas Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
27 February 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC Financial Statements
84 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011
Restated (note 2)
Notes
Before 
exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5)
£m
Total
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5)
£m
Total 
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 2,538.3 – 2,538.3 2,292.0 – 2,292.0
Continuing operations
Operating proﬁt before share of results of joint ventures 479.2 (16.5) 462.7 407.9 (4.8) 403.1
Share of results of joint ventures 15 6.4 – 6.4 4.8 – 4.8
Operating proﬁt 485.6 (16.5) 469.1 412.7 (4.8) 407.9
Finance costs 6 (46.5) (2.6) (49.1) (19.4) (0.7) (20.1)
Finance income 6 5.2 – 5.2 4.3 – 4.3
Other ﬁnance costs – retirement beneﬁts 24 (1.2) – (1.2) (1.3) – (1.3)
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 443.1 (19.1) 424.0 396.3 (5.5) 390.8
Tax expense 7 (124.2) 12.6 (111.6) (114.2) 1.8 (112.4)
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 318.9 (6.5) 312.4 282.1 (3.7) 278.4
Proﬁt for the period from discontinued operations 8 – 3.3 3.3 – 19.9 19.9
Proﬁt for the period 318.9 (3.2) 315.7 282.1 16.2 298.3
Attributable to
Equity holders of the Company 318.6 (3.2) 315.4 282.1 16.2 298.3
Non–controlling interests 0.3 – 0.3 –––
318.9 (3.2) 315.7 282.1 16.2 298.3
Earnings per share 9
Basic – total operations 148.6p 141.2p
Basic – continuing operations 150.1p 147.1p 133.6p 131.8p
 
Diluted – total operations 147.7p 139.8p
Diluted – continuing operations 149.2p 146.2p 132.2p 130.5p
Consolidated Income Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 IV
III
II
I
85 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 
Note
 52 weeks 
ended  
28 December 
2012
£m
Restated 
(note 2)
 52 weeks 
ended  
30 December 
2011
£m
Proﬁt for the period 315.7 298.3
Other comprehensive income
Gains (losses) taken to equity on cash ﬂow hedges 1.4 (1.1)
Exchange losses on translation of foreign operations (84.9) (18.9)
Exchange gains (losses) on net investment hedges 38.6 (1.4)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt plans (note 24) (14.1) (45.0)
Reclassiﬁcation adjustments taken to the income statement on cash ﬂow hedges 0.8 (1.5)
Tax relating to other comprehensive expense 7 3.0 12.2
Net other comprehensive expense (55.2) (55.7)
Total net comprehensive income for the period 260.5 242.6
Attributable to
Equity holders of the Company 260.5 242.6
Non-controlling interests – –
260.5 242.6 Financial Statements
86 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes
28 December 2012
£m
Restated (note 2)
30 December 2011
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 11 374.0 318.9
Intangible assets 12 1,454.1 1,415.1
Investments in joint ventures 15 12.0 11.4
Deferred tax assets 23 30.4 38.7
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 0.8 0.1
Total non-current assets 1,871.3 1,784.2
Current assets
Inventories 16 512.7 463.8
Trade & other receivables 17 478.2 516.1
Construction contracts 18 21.7 19.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 3.6 6.4
Income tax receivable 4.1 11.6
Cash & short-term deposits 19 391.1 113.9
Total current assets 1,411.4 1,131.4
Total assets 3,282.7 2,915.6
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 65.4 92.0
Trade & other payables 21 485.8 569.1
Construction contracts 18 13.7 26.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 14.7 24.4
Income tax payable 28.6 33.4
Provisions 22 36.4 55.5
Total current liabilities 644.6 801.2
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 1,014.6 695.1
Other payables 21 26.3 15.5
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 0.8 15.2
Provisions 22 33.2 37.1
Deferred tax liabilities 23 162.5 149.3
Retirement beneﬁt plan deﬁcits 24 90.4 84.7
Total non-current liabilities 1,327.8 996.9
Total liabilities 1,972.4 1,798.1
NET ASSETS 1,310.3 1,117.5
CAPITAL & RESERVES
Share capital 25 26.7 26.6
Share premium 38.0 38.0
Treasury shares (5.6) (5.6)
Capital redemption reserve 0.5 0.5
Foreign currency translation reserve 37.5 83.5
Hedge accounting reserve 0.2 (1.6)
Retained earnings 1,209.8 974.0
Shareholders equity 1,307.1 1,115.4
Non-controlling interests 3.2 2.1
TOTAL EQUITY 1,310.3 1,117.5
Approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2013   
Keith Cochrane  Jon Stanton       
Director   Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 28 December 2012 IV
III
II
I
87 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
Notes
52 weeks 
ended  
28 December 
2012
£m
52 weeks 
ended  
30 December 
2011
£m
Continuing operations
Cash ﬂows from operating activities 26
Cash generated from operations 398.6 302.6
Additional pension contributions paid (7.5) (6.6)
Income tax paid (104.9) (97.3)
Net cash generated from operating activities 286.2 198.7
Continuing operations
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 26 (123.3) (386.0)
Disposals of subsidiaries 26 22.9 –
Purchases of property, plant & equipment & intangible assets (123.6) (95.4)
Other proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment & intangible assets 7.3 4.0
Interest received 5.1 4.3
Dividends received from joint ventures 5.4 4.1
Net cash used in investing activities (206.2) (469.0)
Continuing operations
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Purchase of shares for equity settled share-based incentives (3.0) (0.4)
Proceeds from borrowings 786.9 469.0
Repayments of borrowings (462.5) (50.8)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition 26 (1.9) (55.4)
Settlement of derivative ﬁnancial instruments (11.0) (10.9)
Interest paid (33.4) (17.7)
Proceeds from increase in non-controlling interests 1.0 1.7
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 10 (71.7) (59.5)
Net cash generated from ﬁnancing activities 204.4 276.0
Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations 284.4 5.7
Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from discontinued operations – investing activities – 24.6
Cash & cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 108.6 79.5
Foreign currency translation differences (8.8) (1.2)
Cash & cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 384.2 108.6 Financial Statements
88 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Hedge 
accounting 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Attributable 
to equity 
holders of the 
Company
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 31 December 2010 26.6 38.0 (6.8) 0.5 103.8 0.4 758.8 921.3 0.4 921.7
Proﬁt for the period – – – – – – 298.3 298.3 – 298.3
Losses taken to equity on cash  
ﬂow hedges – – – – – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Exchange losses on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (18.9) – – (18.9) – (18.9)
Exchange losses on net  
investment hedges – – – – (1.4) – – (1.4) – (1.4)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned  
beneﬁt plans – – – – – – (45.0) (45.0) – (45.0)
Reclassiﬁcation adjustments taken  
to the income statement on cash  
ﬂow hedges – – – – – (1.5) – (1.5) – (1.5)
Tax relating to other  
comprehensive income – – – – – 0.6 11.6 12.2 – 12.2
Total net comprehensive income  
for the period – – – – (20.3) (2.0) 264.9 242.6 – 242.6
Proceeds from increase  
in non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 1.7 1.7
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax credits – – – – – – 11.0 11.0 – 11.0
Dividends – – – – – – (59.5) (59.5) – (59.5)
Exercise of LTIP awards – – 1.2 – – – (1.2) – – –
At 30 December 2011 (restated note 2) 26.6 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 83.5 (1.6) 974.0 1,115.4 2.1 1,117.5
Proﬁt for the period – – – – – – 315.4 315.4 0.3 315.7
Gains taken to equity on cash  
ﬂow hedges – – – – – 1.4 – 1.4 – 1.4
Exchange losses on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (84.6) – – (84.6) (0.3) (84.9)
Exchange gains on net  
investment hedges – – – – 38.6 – – 38.6 – 38.6
Actuarial losses on deﬁned  
beneﬁt plans – – – – – – (14.1) (14.1) – (14.1)
Reclassiﬁcation adjustments taken  
to the income statement on cash  
ﬂow hedges – – – – – 0.8 – 0.8 – 0.8
Tax relating to other  
comprehensive income – – – – – (0.4) 3.4 3.0 – 3.0
Total net comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – (46.0) 1.8 304.7 260.5 – 260.5
Proceeds from increase in  
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 1.1 1.1
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax charge – – – – – – 4.9 4.9 – 4.9
Dividends – – – – – – (71.7) (71.7) – (71.7)
Purchases of shares* – – (2.0) – – – – (2.0) – (2.0)
Exercise of LTIP awards 0.1 – 2.0 – – – (2.1) – – –
At 28 December 2012 26.7 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 37.5 0.2 1,209.8 1,307.1 3.2 1,310.3
* These shares were purchased on the open market and are held by the Appleby EBT on behalf of the Group for satisfaction of any future vesting of the deferred bonus plan. IV
III
II
I
89 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. Authorisation of ﬁnancial statements & statement of compliance
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) for the 52 weeks 
ended 28 December 2012 (‘2012’) were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 27 February 
2013. The comparative information is presented for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 (‘2011’). For practical reasons, the Group 
prepares its ﬁnancial statements to the week ending closest to the Company reference date of 31 December. The results on this basis are 
unlikely to be materially different from those that would be presented for a period of one year. The Weir Group PLC is a limited company 
incorporated in Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling. All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million pounds (£m) except when otherwise 
indicated. 
In order to provide the users of the ﬁnancial statements with a more relevant presentation of the Group’s underlying performance, proﬁt for 
each ﬁnancial year has been analysed between:
i) proﬁt before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation; and 
ii) the effect of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
a. Exceptional items are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and /or infrequency of the events giving rise  
to them, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the elements of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance for the  
period and are presented on the face of the income statement to facilitate comparisons with prior periods and assessment of trends  
in ﬁnancial performance. Exceptional items may include but are not restricted to: proﬁts or losses arising on disposal of businesses  
or on closure of businesses; the cost of signiﬁcant business restructuring; signiﬁcant impairments of intangible or tangible assets; 
adjustments to the fair value of acquisition related items such as contingent consideration and inventory; other items deemed exceptional 
due to their signiﬁcance, size or nature; and the related exceptional taxation.
b. Intangibles amortisation, including impairment, has been shown separately to provide visibility over the impact of increased acquisition 
activity on intangible assets.
Further analysis of the items included in the column ‘Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation’ is provided in note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
During the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the provisional fair values attributed to the 2011 acquisitions of Weir International and 
Seaboard were ﬁnalised. In accordance with IFRS3, the net impact of the adjustments to the provisional fair values has been recognised by 
means of a decrease to goodwill and the adjustments to the provisional amounts have been recognised as if the accounting for the business 
combinations had been completed at the relevant acquisition dates. As such, all affected balances and amounts have been restated in the 
ﬁnancial statements. To this effect, the Consolidated Balance Sheet and affected notes present restated comparative information as at  
30 December 2011. The Consolidated Income Statement for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 has been restated to reﬂect £0.7m 
amortisation of customer relationships. Further details of the adjustments made to the provisional fair values can be found in note 13.
In addition, the provisional fair values attributed to the acquisition of Novatech in February 2012 were also ﬁnalised during the period and 
details can be found in note 13.
 
The accounting policies which follow are consistent with those of the previous periods except for the adoption of the following standards  
and interpretations which have not had a material impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure (Amendment)
IAS12 Income Taxes (Amendment) – Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets
Use of estimates & judgements
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period  
in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Details of the signiﬁcant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most signiﬁcant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements are described in the Financial Review on page 36 and in notes 14 and 24. Financial Statements
90 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include results, cash ﬂows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC and its subsidiaries, and 
the Group’s share of its joint ventures’ results. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting 
period as the Company using consistent accounting policies. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is the power to govern the ﬁnancial and 
operating policies of the entity so as to obtain beneﬁt from its activities. The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in 
the Group’s results from the effective date on which control is transferred to the Group. The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are 
included in the Group’s results up to the effective date on which control is transferred out of the Group. All intragroup transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of proﬁt or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are 
presented within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the Company shareholders equity.
Joint ventures
The Group has a number of long-term contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures. These all take the form  
of agreements to share control over other entities (‘jointly controlled entities’). The Group’s interests in the results and assets and liabilities  
of its jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. 
These investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets less any 
impairment in value. The income statement reﬂects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax. Where there has been  
a change recognised directly in the investee’s equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when applicable  
in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the 
net fair value of the joint venture’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the joint venture 
and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the joint venture’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater 
than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the joint venture’s proﬁt or loss in the period in which 
the investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation
The ﬁnancial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates. 
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling 
on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling 
on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised in the income statement except when hedge accounting is 
applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are 
recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in proﬁt or loss.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for the period and their assets and 
liabilities are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences, including those  
on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve. 
In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement is determined after 
taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation. As permitted by IFRS1, the Group 
elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences to be £nil as at 27 December 2003. Accordingly, the gain or loss on disposal  
of a foreign operation does not include currency translation differences arising before 27 December 2003. 
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the cash ﬂows of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for 
the period. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and 
after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, 
usually on dispatch of the goods, and can be reliably measured. Revenue from the sales of services and revenue from construction contracts 
is recognised by reference to the stage of completion where the outcome can be estimated reliably, otherwise it is recognised to the extent 
costs are incurred. The stage of completion of a contract is determined either by reference to the proportion that contract costs incurred for 
work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by reference to the completion of a physical proportion of the contract 
work. The basis used is dependent upon the nature of the underlying contract and takes into account the degree to which the physical 
proportion of the work is subject to formal customer acceptance procedures. Losses on contracts are recognised in the period when such 
losses become probable.  IV
III
II
I
91 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Property, plant & equipment 
The Group elected to use previous UK GAAP revaluations of land and buildings, amounting to £10.5m, prior to 27 December 2003 as 
deemed cost at the date of the revaluation.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost includes 
borrowing costs for qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009. Prior to this date,  
the Group recognised all borrowing costs as an expense immediately. Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and assets under construction, is provided on a straight-line basis  
so as to charge the cost less residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, to the income statement over the expected 
useful life of the asset concerned, and is in the following ranges:
Freehold buildings, long leasehold land & buildings –  10 – 40 years 
Short leasehold land & buildings  –  duration of lease 
Plant & equipment  –  3 – 20 years 
Investment property
Until December 2011, the Group owned one property which was classiﬁed as investment property on the basis that it was being held  
to earn rentals and for capital appreciation rather than for use in the production or supply of goods and services. This property was sold  
in December 2011. Investment property was stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation was provided on a straight-line  
basis over 40 years. 
Goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. 
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest  
in the fair value of the entity’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of acquisition. Acquisition costs  
are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Goodwill in respect of an acquired subsidiary is recognised as an intangible asset. 
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses. 
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,  
the excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement. 
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 27 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount at that date and is not amortised. The carrying amount 
of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit. Goodwill that 
was written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of acquired 
businesses on or after 27 December 2003.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred is recognised at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration, which is deemed to be an asset or a liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 in proﬁt or loss or as a change to 
other comprehensive income. 
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses. 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition. An intangible resource acquired in a business combination 
is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to 
generate future economic beneﬁts and its fair value can be measured reliably. An intangible asset with a ﬁnite life is amortised on a straight-
line basis so as to charge its cost, which in respect of an acquired intangible asset represents its fair value at the acquisition date, to the 
income statement over its expected useful life. An intangible asset with an indeﬁnite life is not amortised but is tested at least annually for 
impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset. 
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected useful  
life, not exceeding eight years.
The expected useful lives of the acquired intangible assets are as follows:
Brand names  –  indeﬁnite life
Customer relationships  –  5 – 25 years
Purchased software  –  4 – 8 years
Intellectual property & trade marks  –  6 – 15 years
Other  –  up to 6 years Financial Statements
92 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Research & development costs 
All research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development  
of a new product and it is incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product has been proven, the development 
costs can be measured reliably, future economic beneﬁts are probable and the Group intends to and has sufﬁcient resources to complete  
the development and to use or sell the asset. Any such capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis so that  
it is charged to the income statement over the expected life of the resulting product. 
Impairment of non-current assets 
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying values might be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with an indeﬁnite life and any capitalised development expenditure are subject to an annual 
impairment test. 
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher  
of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. An asset’s value in use represents the present value of the future cash ﬂows 
expected to be derived from the asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test 
is conducted for the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. Similarly, the recoverable amount of goodwill is determined by reference to the 
discounted future cash ﬂows of the cash-generating units to which it is allocated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill 
are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount. The carrying amount of an asset 
shall not be increased above the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset  
in prior periods. Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items. Cost represents 
the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition and comprises the cost of raw materials, direct labour 
costs, other direct costs and related production overheads. Raw material cost is generally determined on a ﬁrst in, ﬁrst out basis. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell. 
Financial assets & liabilities
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and ﬁxed 
rate notes, cash and short-term deposits. The Group also has other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade 
payables which arise directly from its operations. 
A ﬁnancial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A ﬁnancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing ﬁnancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modiﬁed, such an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such  
that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in proﬁt or loss.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables, which generally are of a short dated nature, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance  
for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances 
in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash & cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity 
on acquisition of three months or less and bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less. 
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount. 
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair 
value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount 
or premium on settlement. Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.  IV
III
II
I
93 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the obligation 
can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is 
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments & hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to reduce its 
exposure to exchange rate movements. The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange risk 
on its investments in foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The 
Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair value 
of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows based on spot and forward foreign 
exchange rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future  
cash ﬂows based on interest rate curves and spot foreign exchange rates. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income 
statement, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions speciﬁed by IAS39 are met. Hedge accounting is applied in 
respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under IAS39 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant 
hedging relationships will be classiﬁed as fair value hedges, cash ﬂow hedges or net investment hedges. 
Where the hedging relationship is classiﬁed as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the 
increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement 
where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument. 
Where the hedging relationship is classiﬁed as a cash ﬂow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, 
changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in other comprehensive income rather than in the income 
statement. When the hedged item is recognised in the ﬁnancial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other 
comprehensive income will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-ﬁnancial asset, will be 
recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is kept  
in other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to net proﬁt or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative ﬁnancial instruments when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair 
value recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), the Executive Bonus 
Scheme (‘EBS’) and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives. 
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reﬂect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period  
due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions. 
The EBS is determined as a percentage of the annual bonus. This percentage is matched by the Group with a share award that will vest  
on the third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continues to hold the original bonus shares awarded and continues to be 
employed by the company at the date of vesting. The EBS includes a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior employees. 
The fair value of the matching and strategic elements of the EBS is determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised  
on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair 
value of the awards. The fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which  
the award was granted are modiﬁed. 
As permitted by IFRS1, the Group has applied IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payment’ retrospectively only to equity settled awards that were granted 
on or after 7 November 2002 and had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
Treasury shares
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classiﬁed in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the 
original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in total comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of equity shares. Financial Statements
94 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Post-employment beneﬁts 
Post-employment beneﬁts comprise pension beneﬁts provided to employees throughout the world and other beneﬁts, primarily post-
retirement healthcare, provided to certain employees in the United States. 
For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the cost is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is recognised over the average expected 
remaining service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the advice of qualiﬁed actuaries. Past service costs resulting from 
enhanced beneﬁts are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the beneﬁts have vested. Actuarial gains 
and losses, which represent differences between the expected and actual returns on the plan assets and the effect of changes in actuarial 
assumptions, are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. 
The deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the beneﬁt 
obligation, using a discount rate based on appropriate high quality corporate bonds, at the balance sheet date, minus any past service costs 
not yet recognised, minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date. Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised 
is limited to the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount which the Group expects to recover by 
way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions. 
For deﬁned contribution plans, the costs represent the Group’s contributions to the plans and these are charged to the income statement  
in the period in which they fall due. 
Leases 
Leases which transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. 
All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases. 
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are included within property, plant and equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower, the present 
value of the minimum lease payments and a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under ﬁnance leases. Subsequently, the 
assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. At the inception of the lease, the lease 
rentals are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
outstanding liability. Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to the income statement while the capital element is 
applied to reduce the outstanding liability. 
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Taxation 
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable proﬁt or loss for the period. 
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base 
with the following exceptions:
(i)  Deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, 
that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss, is not recognised;
(ii)  Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future;
(iii) A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets represent  
tax recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unutilised tax losses and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax 
liability is settled. 
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case  
it is recognised directly in equity. IV
III
II
I
95 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
New standards & interpretations
The International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following 
standards and interpretations, which are considered relevant to the Group, with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial statements.
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date for periods commencing
IAS1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to IAS1) 1 July 2012
IAS19 Employee Beneﬁts (Revised)  1 January 2013
IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement *  1 January 2013
IFRS10, IFRS11 and IFRS12 Transition Guidance (Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS11 and IFRS12) 1 January 2013
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements *  1 January 2014
IFRS11 Joint Arrangements * 1 January 2014
IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities *  1 January 2014
IAS32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS32) *  1 January 2014
IFRS9 Financial Instruments *  1 January 2015
*not yet adopted for use in the European Union
The above standards and interpretations will be adopted in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these 
ﬁnancial statements. The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact  
on the Group’s ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application with the exception of IAS19 (Revised). 
Under IAS19 (Revised), there will be no impact on the disclosed deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. The net charge to the Income Statement will 
increase by approximately £3m following the introduction of the concept of recognising net interest on the net deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  
in place of the interest on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the expected return on plan assets recognised under the current standard.
For the standards with a later effective date, the directors are in the process of assessing the likely impact and look to ﬁnalisation of the 
standards before formalising their view.
3. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial. These three 
divisions are organised and managed separately based on the key markets served and each is treated as an operating segment and a 
reportable segment under IFRS8. The operating and reportable segments were determined based on the reports reviewed by the Chief 
Executive which are used to make operational decisions.
The Minerals segment is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive  
high wear applications used in the mining and oil sands markets. The Oil & Gas segment provides products and service solutions to 
upstream, production, transportation, reﬁning and related industries. The Power & Industrial segment designs and manufactures valves, 
pumps and turbines as well as providing specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.  
All other segments, which are disclosed as Group companies, include the results of LGE process which supplies equipment to the liqueﬁed 
petroleum gas marine and onshore markets. This business was sold on 28 December 2012 (note 5). 
The Chief Executive assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating proﬁt from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, including impairment (‘segment result’). Finance income and expenditure and associated 
interest-bearing liabilities and derivative ﬁnancial instruments are not allocated to segments as all treasury activity is managed centrally by  
the Group treasury function. The amounts provided to the Chief Executive with respect to assets and liabilities are measured in a manner 
consistent with that of the ﬁnancial statements. The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location  
of the asset. The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment. 
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Financial Statements
96 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued
3. Segment information (continued)
The segment information for the reportable segments for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 and the 52 weeks ended 30 December 
2011 is disclosed below. 
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial
Total continuing 
operations
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 1,333.6 1,216.3 843.6 742.7 323.4 306.7 2,500.6 2,265.7
Inter-segment sales 4.3 5.2 15.3 14.7 4.0 6.6 23.6 26.5
Segment revenue 1,337.9 1,221.5 858.9 757.4 327.4 313.3 2,524.2 2,292.2
Group companies sales to external customers 37.7 26.3
Eliminations (23.6) (26.5)
2,538.3 2,292.0
Sales to external customers – 2011 at 2012 average exchange rates
Sales to external customers 1,333.6 1,195.3 843.6 746.8 323.4 301.4 2,500.6 2,243.5
Group companies sales to external customers 37.7 26.3
2,538.3 2,269.8
Result (restated note 2)
Segment result before share of results  
of joint ventures 255.9 213.9 204.2 178.3 31.5 26.8 491.6 419.0
Share of results of joint ventures – – 6.4 4.8 – – 6.4 4.8
Segment result 255.9 213.9 210.6 183.1 31.5 26.8 498.0 423.8
Group companies 2.5 3.0
Unallocated expenses (14.9) (14.1)
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 485.6 412.7
Total exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (19.1) (5.5)
Net ﬁnance costs before exceptional items (41.3) (15.1)
Other ﬁnance costs – retirement beneﬁts (1.2) (1.3)
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 424.0 390.8
Segment result – 2011 at 2012 average exchange rates
Segment result before share of results  
of joint ventures 255.9 211.5 204.2 180.2 31.5 26.0 491.6 417.7
Share of results of joint ventures – – 6.4 4.9 – – 6.4 4.9
Segment result 255.9 211.5 210.6 185.1 31.5 26.0 498.0 422.6
Group companies 2.5 3.0
Unallocated expenses (14.9) (14.1)
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 485.6 411.5
There are no material revenues derived from a single external customer.         IV
III
II
I
97 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial
Total continuing 
operations
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets & liabilities (restated note 2)
Intangible assets 368.4 380.0 974.4 917.1 109.8 117.8 1,452.6 1,414.9
Property, plant & equipment 199.1 187.4 121.6 86.6 52.2 44.3 372.9 318.3
Working capital assets 485.9 470.9 365.8 391.0 167.0 143.2 1,018.7 1,005.1
1,053.4 1,038.3 1,461.8 1,394.7 329.0 305.3 2,844.2 2,738.3
Investments in joint ventures – – 12.0 11.4 – – 12.0 11.4
Segment assets 1,053.4 1,038.3 1,473.8 1,406.1 329.0 305.3 2,856.2 2,749.7
Group companies assets – 3.2
Unallocated assets 426.5 162.7
Total assets 3,282.7 2,915.6
Working capital liabilities 263.7 262.2 128.0 208.9 88.0 86.5 479.7 557.6
Group companies liabilities 3.4 11.2
Unallocated liabilities 1,489.3 1,229.3
Total liabilities 1,972.4 1,798.1
Other segment information
Segment additions to non-current assets 50.4 49.0 52.3 32.5 18.6 13.4 121.3 94.9
Unallocated additions to non-current assets 2.3 0.5
Total additions to non-current assets 123.6 95.4
Segment depreciation & amortisation 31.5 29.1 42.9 21.3 10.9 10.3 85.3 60.7
Unallocated depreciation & amortisation 0.8 0.4
Total depreciation & amortisation 86.1 61.1
         
Unallocated assets primarily comprise cash and short-term deposits, derivative ﬁnancial instruments, income tax receivable and deferred tax 
assets as well as those assets which are used for general head ofﬁce purposes. Intangible assets have been allocated within the segmental 
analysis to reﬂect changes made to the information provided to the Chief Executive for decision-making purposes. Unallocated liabilities primarily 
comprise interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative ﬁnancial instruments, income tax payable, provisions, deferred tax liabilities and 
retirement beneﬁt deﬁcits as well as liabilities relating to general head ofﬁce activities. Segment additions to non-current assets do not include 
those additions which have arisen from business combinations (note 13).       
  
               Financial Statements
98 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
3. Segment information (continued)
Geographical information         
Geographical information in respect of revenue and non-current assets for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 and the 52 weeks ended 
30 December 2011 is disclosed below. Revenues are allocated based on the location to which the product is shipped. Assets are allocated 
based on the location of the assets and operations. Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 
investments in joint ventures.
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
UK
£m
USA
£m
Canada
£m
Europe & 
FSU
£m
Asia 
Paciﬁc
£m
Australia
£m
South 
America
£m
Middle East 
& Africa
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 87.7 787.1 262.5 215.4 287.9 236.0 316.3 345.4 2,538.3
Non-current assets 103.2 1,083.1 24.1 143.3 172.4 163.5 52.1 98.4 1,840.1
52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 – 
restated (note 2)
UK
£m
USA
£m
Canada
£m
Europe &  
FSU
£m
Asia 
Paciﬁc
£m
Australia
£m
South 
America
£m
Middle East & 
Africa
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 100.6 702.3 267.3 183.5 280.0 231.0 262.3 265.0 2,292.0
Non-current assets 98.6 994.2 17.4 140.9 177.0 167.1 45.9 104.3 1,745.4
         
The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.        
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows
Original equipment 1,039.3 1,014.7
Aftermarket parts 990.8 888.2
Sales of goods 2,030.1 1,902.9
Aftermarket services 415.7 313.5
Revenue from construction contracts 92.5 75.6
Revenue 2,538.3 2,292.0
Finance income 5.2 4.3
Total revenue 2,543.5 2,296.3
         
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods or services (2011: £nil).       
  
4. Revenues & expenses 
        
The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.        
 
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
A reconciliation of revenue to operating proﬁt is as follows
Revenue 2,538.3 2,292.0
Cost of sales (1,652.2) (1,495.4)
Gross proﬁt 886.1 796.6
Other operating income 35.2 23.9
Selling & distribution costs (220.8) (211.3)
Administrative expenses (237.8) (206.1)
Share of results of joint ventures 6.4 4.8
Operating proﬁt 469.1 407.9
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
99 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
2012
£m
2011 
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,652.2 1,495.4
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment & investment property (note 11) 49.4 37.3
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12) 36.7 23.8
Acquisition transaction costs 1.0 5.6
Other one-off costs* 8.3 11.0
Net foreign exchange losses 0.3 4.5
Net impairment of trade receivables (note 17) 3.3 0.7
         
* Other one-off costs include restructuring, integration and aborted acquisition costs as well as the provision recorded in 2011 for Libyan working capital exposures.  
       
The following disclosures are given in relation to total operations.        
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Auditors remuneration
The total fees payable by the Group to Ernst & Young LLP and their associates for work performed in respect of the 
audit and other services provided to the Company and its subsidiary companies during the period are disclosed below.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company & Group ﬁnancial statements 0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.4
Corporate ﬁnance services 0.2 0.3
Taxation advisory services 0.1 –
Fees payable in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
Audit 0.1 0.1
           
Research & development costs         
Research & development costs amount to £23.5m (2011: £18.4m) of which £22.2m (2011: £17.8m) were charged directly to cost of sales  
in the income statement and £1.3m (2011: £0.6m) were capitalised (note 12).       
  
Operating leases         
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the period were £37.1m (2011: £28.7m).   
      
2012
£m
2011
£m
Employee beneﬁts expense
Wages & salaries 491.1 413.0
Social security costs 50.9 44.2
Pension costs
 Deﬁned beneﬁt plans (note 24) 2.1 1.3
 Deﬁned beneﬁt plans exceptional item (note 5) – (19.0)
 Deﬁned contribution plans 16.3 14.9
Share-based payments – equity settled transactions 7.5 4.9
567.9 459.3
         
2012
Number
2011
Number
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is as follows
Minerals 7,326 6,649 
Oil & Gas 2,999 2,196 
Power & Industrial 2,813 2,723 
Group companies 107 101 
13,245 11,669 
         
At 28 December 2012, the number of persons employed by the Group including those under temporary contracts was 14,351 (2011: 13,996). 
        
          Financial Statements
100 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
5. Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation         
         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Recognised in arriving at operating proﬁt from continuing operations
Intangibles amortisation (note 12) (36.7) (23.8)
Exceptional item – charging of fair value inventory uplift (4.5) –
Exceptional item – gain on sale of LGE Process 30.5 –
Exceptional item – uplift in respect of contingent consideration liability (5.8) –
Exceptional item – past service gain on UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme (note 24) – 19.0
(16.5) (4.8)
Recognised in ﬁnance costs
Exceptional item – unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration liability (2.6) (0.7)
Recognised in arriving at proﬁt for the period from discontinued operations
Exceptional items (note 8) 3.3 19.9
         
Under IFRS, at acquisition, inventory values are adjusted from their carrying values (generally at cost of production) to a fair value, which 
includes proﬁt attributable to the degree of completion of the inventory. This resulted in a fair value uplift totalling £4.5m for Seaboard and 
Novatech combined. This uplift is charged to the income statement as the inventory is sold, thereby reducing operating proﬁts. All of the 
uplifted inventory was sold in the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 giving rise to the charge to the income statement of £4.5m which  
has been treated as an exceptional item.         
         
The gain on sale of LGE Process has been disclosed within other operating income (note 4).      
   
6. Finance (costs) income
         
Finance costs         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest payable on bank loans, ﬁxed rate notes & overdrafts (35.7) (12.0)
Losses on ﬁnancial assets & liabilities at fair value through proﬁt & loss (5.0) (4.5)
Finance charges related to committed loan facilities (5.8) (2.9)
(46.5) (19.4)
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration – exceptional item (note 5) (2.6) (0.7)
(49.1) (20.1)
Finance income         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest receivable on ﬁnancial assets 0.7 0.9
Gains on ﬁnancial assets & liabilities at fair value through proﬁt & loss 4.5 3.4
5.2 4.3
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
101 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
7. Tax expense 
Income tax expense         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Consolidated Income Statement
Current income tax
UK corporation tax – continuing operations (0.4) (3.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (2.6) (2.0)
UK corporation tax (3.0) (5.1)
Foreign tax – continuing operations (110.2) (111.9)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 3.1 17.5
Total current income tax (110.1) (99.5)
Deferred income tax
Origination & reversal of temporary differences – continuing operations (0.2) (8.2)
Adjustment to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets (1.6) 0.1
Effect of changes in tax rates (1.1) (0.7)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.4 (4.1)
Total deferred tax* (1.5) (12.9)
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement
(111.6) (112.4)
         
* Includes £1.3m of deferred tax credit relating to foreign tax (2011: a charge of £6.6m).        
          
The total income tax expense is disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows.      
   
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Tax expense – continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (124.2) (114.2)
Tax expense – exceptional items 1.5 (4.8)
Tax expense – intangibles amortisation 11.1 6.6
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (111.6) (112.4)
Current tax for 2012 has been reduced by £nil (2011: £0.1m) due to the utilisation of deferred tax assets previously not recognised.  
       
The total deferred tax included in the income tax expense is detailed in note 23.       
  
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Current tax on pension contributions 2.8 2.5
Deferred tax – origination & reversal of temporary differences 0.7 9.1
Tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement beneﬁts 3.5 11.6
Deferred tax (charge) credit on hedge losses (0.5) 0.6
Tax credit in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 3.0 12.2
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Deferred tax on share-based payments (2.6) 5.1
Current tax on share-based payments – 1.0
Tax (charge) credit in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (2.6) 6.1
          Financial Statements
102 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
7. Tax expense (continued)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge         
The tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period is less than the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax 
across the Group of 30.2% (2011: 32.0%). The differences are reconciled below.   
    
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 424.0 390.8
Proﬁt before tax from discontinued operations 3.3 19.9
Accounting proﬁt before tax 427.3 410.7
At the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 30.2% (2011: 32.0%)
129.1 131.5
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax (0.5) (15.5)
Adjustments in respect of previous years – deferred tax (1.4) 4.1
Joint ventures (1.2) (0.6)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.6 (0.1)
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 4.6 6.7
Permanent differences (15.4) (9.0)
Effect of changes in tax rates 1.1 0.7
Exceptional gain from discontinued operations covered by indexation relief – (5.4)
Exceptional items ineligible for tax 1.1 –
Gains exempt from tax (7.4) –
At effective tax rate of 26.1% (2011: 27.4%) 111.6 112.4
         
8. Discontinued operations  
There were no disposals of core businesses during the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 or the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011.  
The proﬁt arising from discontinued operations of £3.3m was as a result of the release of unutilised provisions relating to prior year disposals 
on expiration of the tax warranty periods.         
         
In December 2011, the Group disposed of the former Weir Pumps site at Cathcart to Clyde Union, subsequently acquired by SPX Clyde UK 
Limited, for cash proceeds of £25.0m resulting in a net gain of £19.9m (net of tax of £nil) after taking account of disposal costs and other 
costs arising from discontinued operations. Since the property was used by the Weir Pumps business, which was sold in 2007, the net gain 
was shown as a proﬁt from discontinued operations.         
         
Earnings per share from discontinued operations were as follows.        
         
 
2012
pence
2011
pence
Basic 1.6 9.4
Diluted 1.5 9.3
         
These earnings per share ﬁgures were derived by dividing the net proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company from discontinued 
operations of £3.3m (2011: £19.9m) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts shown in note 9. 
        
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
103 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
9. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net proﬁt 
attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (adjusted for 
the effects of dilutive share awards).         
         
The following reﬂects the proﬁt and share data used in the calculation of earnings per share.      
   
2012
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company
 Total operations* (£m) 315.4 298.3
 Continuing operations* (£m) 312.1 278.4
 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* (£m) 318.6 282.1
Weighted average share capital
Basic earnings per share (number of shares, million) 212.2 211.2
Diluted earnings per share (number of shares, million) 213.5 213.4
 
The difference between the weighted average share capital for the purposes of the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations  
is analysed as follows.          
2012
Shares 
Million
2011
Shares 
Million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 212.2 211.2
Effect of dilution: LTIP and deferred bonus awards 1.3 2.2
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 213.5 213.4
The proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Company used in the calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation is calculated as follows.      
   
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Net proﬁt attributable to equity holders from continuing operations* 312.1 278.4
Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation net of tax 6.5 3.7
Net proﬁt attributable to equity holders from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 318.6 282.1
2012
pence
2011
pence
Basic earnings per share:
 Total operations* 148.6 141.2
 Continuing operations* 147.1 131.8
 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 150.1 133.6
Diluted earnings per share:
 Total operations* 147.7 139.8
 Continuing operations* 146.2 130.5
 Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 149.2 132.2
         
* Adjusted for £0.3m (2011: £nil) in respect of non-controlling interests.         
There have been no share options (2011: nil) exercised between the reporting date and the date of signing of these ﬁnancial statements.  
        
          Financial Statements
104 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
10. Dividends paid & proposed         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2011: 25.8p (2010: 21.0p) 54.8 44.3
Interim dividend for 2012: 8.0p (2011: 7.2p) 16.9 15.2
71.7 59.5
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2012: 30.0p (2011: 25.8p) 63.8 54.5
         
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date the ﬁnancial statements were 
approved and authorised for issue. 
The ﬁnal dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between the date of approval of the report and 
ﬁnancial statements and the record date for the ﬁnal dividend.         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
105 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
11. Property, plant & equipment & investment property         
Land & 
buildings
£m
Plant & 
equipment
£m
Total 
property, 
plant & 
equipment
£m
Investment 
property
£m
Cost
At 31 December 2010 111.3 329.0 440.3 11.8
Additions 18.6 72.4 91.0 –
Acquisitions 0.9 19.4 20.3 –
Disposals (3.8) (23.2) (27.0) (10.2)
Reclassiﬁcations to intangible assets (note 12) – (2.3) (2.3) –
Reclassiﬁcations 2.0 (0.4) 1.6 (1.6)
Exchange adjustment (3.1) (12.0) (15.1) –
At 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) 125.9 382.9 508.8 –
Additions 27.9 87.4 115.3 –
Acquisitions 1.2 6.6 7.8 –
Disposals (5.5) (18.4) (23.9) –
Reclassiﬁcations to intangible assets – (0.2) (0.2) –
Reclassiﬁcations (0.2) 0.2 – –
Exchange adjustment (4.0) (13.6) (17.6) –
At 28 December 2012 145.3 444.9 590.2 –
Accumulated depreciation & impairment
At 31 December 2010 27.6 155.3 182.9 7.9
Depreciation charge for the period 5.7 31.3 37.0 0.3
Impairment 0.1 0.3 0.4 –
Disposals (1.7) (22.2) (23.9) (7.2)
Reclassiﬁcations to intangible assets (note 12) – (1.6) (1.6) –
Reclassiﬁcations 1.7 (0.7) 1.0 (1.0)
Exchange adjustment (0.6) (5.3) (5.9) –
At 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) 32.8 157.1 189.9 –
Depreciation charge for the period 4.7 44.7 49.4 –
Disposals (2.4) (15.1) (17.5) –
Exchange adjustment (0.9) (4.7) (5.6) –
At 28 December 2012 34.2 182.0 216.2 –
Net book value at 31 December 2010 83.7 173.7 257.4 3.9
Net book value at 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) 93.1 225.8 318.9 –
Net book value at 28 December 2012 111.1 262.9 374.0 –
         
The carrying value of buildings held under ﬁnance leases is £1.7m (2011: £1.9m). The carrying value of plant and equipment held under 
ﬁnance leases is £0.5m (2011: £0.7m). Leased assets are pledged as security for the related ﬁnance lease liabilities. 
The carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant and equipment is £52.9m (2011: £26.7m).     
     
In December 2011, the Group disposed of the former Weir Pumps site at Cathcart, which had been treated as an investment property since 
the disposal of the Weir Pumps business in 2007, to Clyde Union, subsequently acquired by SPX Clyde UK Limited.    
      
In 2011 the impairment charge of £0.4m related to speciﬁc assets in one location which were unable to be transferred to that operation’s  
new location. 
         Financial Statements
106 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
12. Intangible assets         
Goodwill
£m
Brand 
names
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Purchased 
software
£m
Intellectual 
property & 
trade marks
£m
Development
costs
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 December 2010 597.8 141.3 184.0 26.3 55.8 2.3 17.3 1,024.8
Additions – – – 4.7 – 0.6 – 5.3
Acquisitions 289.5 31.6 165.2–––– 486.3
Disposals – – – (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Reclassiﬁcations from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – 1.9 – 0.4 – 2.3
Reclassiﬁcations – – – 0.2 (0.2) – – –
Exchange adjustment (3.2) (0.6) (3.5) (0.9) – – (0.8) (9.0)
At 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) 884.1 172.3 345.7 30.5 55.6 3.3 16.5 1,508.0
Additions – – – 6.0 – 1.3 1.0 8.3
Acquisitions 57.0 4.5 53.4 – 4.7 – 1.8 121.4
Disposals – – – (2.5) – – (0.7) (3.2)
Reclassiﬁcations from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) ––– 0.2––– 0.2
Exchange adjustment (32.2) (7.1) (14.6) (1.0) (2.3) (0.1) (0.9) (58.2)
At 28 December 2012 908.9 169.7 384.5 33.2 58.0 4.5 17.7 1,576.5
Accumulated amortisation & impairment
At 31 December 2010 – – 32.5 16.4 10.2 0.1 11.0 70.2
Amortisation charge for the period – – 13.5 2.7 5.5 0.1 2.0 23.8
Disposals – – – (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Reclassiﬁcations from property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) ––– 1.6––– 1.6
Reclassiﬁcations – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.8) – 1.1 –
Exchange adjustment – – (0.3) (0.5) 0.1 – (0.3) (1.0)
At 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) – – 45.6 18.3 15.0 0.2 13.8 92.9
Amortisation charge for the period – – 24.0 3.4 5.6 0.1 3.6 36.7
Disposals – – – (2.3) – – (0.7) (3.0)
Exchange adjustment – – (2.2) (0.6) (0.7) – (0.7) (4.2)
At 28 December 2012 – – 67.4 18.8 19.9 0.3 16.0 122.4
Net book value at 31 December 2010
597.8 141.3 151.5 9.9 45.6 2.2 6.3 954.6
Net book value at 30 December 2011  
– restated (note 2)
884.1 172.3 300.1 12.2 40.6 3.1 2.7 1,415.1
Net book value at 28 December 2012
908.9 169.7 317.1 14.4 38.1 4.2 1.7 1,454.1
         
The increase to goodwill of £57.0m during 2012 is represented by the current year acquisitions of Gema and Novatech (note 13).  
       
Brand names have been assigned an indeﬁnite useful life and as such are not amortised. The carrying value of £169.7m (2011 restated: 
£172.3m) is tested annually for impairment (note 14). The brand name value comprises the brands of Weir Linatex, Weir BDK, Weir American 
Hydro, Weir Warman, Weir SPM, Weir Gabbioneta, Weir Mesa, Weir Multiﬂo and Weir Novatech, all of which are considered to be market 
leaders in their respective markets.         
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
107 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The allocation of customer relationships and the remaining amortisation period of these assets is as follows.    
     
Remaining amortisation 
period
Customer 
relationships
2012
Years
2011
Years
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Weir Seaboard 15 16 142.0 157.8
Weir Novatech 13 – 48.9 –
Weir International 4 5 5.3 6.6
Weir SPM 19 20 82.4 90.6
Weir Gabbioneta 18 19 12.9 13.9
Warman companies Up to 8 Up to 9 10.5 14.0
Other Up to 18 Up to 19 15.1 17.2
317.1 300.1
         
The amortisation and impairment charge for the period is included in the income statement as follows.     
    
 
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Cost of sales 2.8 2.6
Selling & distribution costs 0.4 0.4
Administrative expenses 33.5 20.8
Amortisation charge for the period 36.7 23.8
          Financial Statements
108 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
13. Business combinations         
On 4 January 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of Gema Industri AB and Gema Industrigummi AB (‘Gema’) for an initial net cash 
consideration of £5m. Based in Gallivare, Sweden, Gema’s core business is providing maintenance services to mines in northern Sweden.  
At 28 December 2012, the Group had acquired 100% of the voting shares of Gema Industrigummi AB and 99% of the voting shares of Gema 
Industri AB and is in the process of acquiring the remaining shares in accordance with Swedish company law which has resulted in a further 
cash consideration of £0.6m.
         
On 22 February 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the voting shares of Novatech LLC (‘Novatech’) for a cash 
consideration of US$192m (£121m), net cash consideration of US$176m (£111m). Based in Dallas, Texas, Novatech produces a wide variety  
of valves for high pressure applications used in unconventional upstream oil and gas operations. The fair values of Novatech are disclosed  
in the following table. The fair values are ﬁnal following the completion of the fair value exercise in respect of each class of asset. There are 
certain intangible assets included in the £52.6m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due  
to their nature. These items include anticipated business growth, synergies and an assembled workforce. The fair value and gross amount  
of the trade receivables amount to £5.2m. None of the trade receivables have been impaired.     
    
Weir Novatech
2012
Fair values
£m
Property, plant & equipment 6.7
Inventories 7.3
Intangible assets
 – customer relationships 53.4
 – brand name 4.5
 – order backlog 1.8
 – intellectual property 4.7
Trade & other receivables 5.2
Cash & cash equivalents 10.2
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings (1.9)
Trade & other payables (1.9)
Provisions (0.1)
Deferred tax (23.0)
Fair value of net assets 66.9
Goodwill arising on acquisition 52.6
Total consideration 119.5
Cash consideration 121.4
Settlement of external debt of subsidiaries on acquisition (1.9)
Total consideration 119.5
The total net cash outﬂow on current year acquisitions was as follows:
Weir Novatech
 – cash & cash equivalents acquired 10.2
 – cash paid (121.4)
Gema – net cash outﬂow (5.6)
Total cash outﬂow (note 26) (116.8)
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
109 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The Group acquired 60% of the voting shares of Weir International on 1 July 2011 and 100% of the voting shares of Seaboard on  
14 December 2011. The remaining 40% of the voting shares of Weir International is subject to put and call options exercisable between 2014  
and 2019 and based upon an EBITDA multiple of proﬁt in the two years preceding the exercise of the option. The cash consideration paid 
was £9.8m and the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration is £19.6m. This is based on an assessment of the proﬁtability of 
possible outcomes discounted to net present value. The range of possible outcomes on an undiscounted basis is between zero and £50.0m.
In the 2011 annual report and accounts, the fair values on acquisition of Seaboard and Weir International were provisional, due to the timing 
of the transactions. In the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the fair values of Seaboard and Weir International have been ﬁnalised 
resulting in adjustments to the provisional fair values attributed. The following table summarises the adjustments made to the provisional fair 
values during the period.         
Provisional fair values Adjustments to provisional fair values Restated fair values
Weir 
Seaboard
2011
£m
Weir 
International
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Weir 
Seaboard
2011
£m
Weir 
International
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Weir 
Seaboard
2011
£m
Weir 
International
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Property, plant & equipment
 – land & buildings 0.6 – 0.6 0.3 – 0.3 0.9 – 0.9
 – plant & equipment 22.5 0.1 22.6 (3.2) – (3.2) 19.3 0.1 19.4
Intangible assets
 – brand name – – – 31.6 – 31.6 31.6 – 31.6
 – customer relationships – – – 157.6 7.6 165.2 157.6 7.6 165.2
Inventories 29.6 0.7 30.3 (6.0) – (6.0) 23.6 0.7 24.3
Trade & other receivables 42.3 1.1 43.4 (1.1) – (1.1) 41.2 1.1 42.3
Cash & cash equivalents 2.2 0.2 2.4––– 2.2 0.2 2.4
Interest-bearing loans & 
borrowings (55.4) (0.2) (55.6) – – – (55.4) (0.2) (55.6)
Trade & other payables (41.5) (1.6) (43.1) (3.6) – (3.6) (45.1) (1.6) (46.7)
Provisions
 – warranty (1.5) – (1.5) (1.8) – (1.8) (3.3) – (3.3)
 – other – – – (0.5) – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Income tax 6.3 (0.1) 6.2––– 6.3 (0.1) 6.2
Deferred tax 1.1 – 1.1 (67.2) – (67.2) (66.1) – (66.1)
Fair value of net assets 6.2 0.2 6.4 106.1 7.6 113.7 112.3 7.8 120.1
Goodwill arising on acquisition 379.6 23.6 403.2 (106.1) (7.6) (113.7) 273.5 16.0 289.5
Total consideration 385.8 23.8 409.6––– 385.8 23.8 409.6
Cash consideration
432.1 9.8 441.9––– 432.1 9.8 441.9
Settlement of external debt  
on acquisition (55.4) – (55.4) – – – (55.4) – (55.4)
Contingent consideration 9.1 14.0 23.1––– 9.1 14.0 23.1
Total consideration 385.8 23.8 409.6––– 385.8 23.8 409.6
The cash outﬂow on acquisition 
was as follows
Cash & cash equivalents 
acquired 2.2 0.2 2.4––– 2.2 0.2 2.4
Cash paid (432.1) (9.8) (441.9) – – – (432.1) (9.8) (441.9)
Net cash outﬂow (429.9) (9.6) (439.5) – – – (429.9) (9.6) (439.5)
         
Together, Seaboard and Novatech contributed £173.3m to revenue and £45.5m to operating proﬁt in the 52 weeks ended 28 December 
2012. The contribution of Novatech to revenue and to proﬁt for the period from continuing operations after exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation was not material and so has not been separately disclosed. The combined revenue and proﬁt for the period from continuing 
operations after exceptional items and intangibles’ amortisation of the Group, assuming that Novatech had been acquired at the start of 
2012, would have been £2,544.9m and £313.9m respectively. The revenue and operating proﬁt of Gema have not been disclosed as they  
are deemed to be immaterial. Acquisition costs in relation to Novatech of £0.3m have been included within operating proﬁt.   
       Financial Statements
110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
14. Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives
Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives have been allocated at acquisition to the cash 
generating units (CGUs) that are expected to beneﬁt from that business combination.       
   
The acquisition of Seaboard at the end of 2011 has been determined to be a separate CGU and Novatech, acquired in February 2012,  
has been included in ‘Other’. The previous year acquisition of Weir International was included in ‘Other’. The amounts included in ‘Other’  
are not considered signiﬁcant in comparison to their respective total carrying amounts.      
   
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives has been allocated as per the table below.    
         
Year
acquired
Goodwill
2012
£m
Intangibles*
2012
£m
Goodwill
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Intangibles*
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Weir Seaboard 2011 262.7 30.3 273.8 31.6
Weir SPM 2007 223.0 28.5 229.0 29.7
Warman companies various 221.0 86.6 221.9 90.2
Weir Gabbioneta 2005 58.9 5.6 60.2 5.7
Other various 143.3 18.7 99.2 15.1
908.9 169.7 884.1 172.3
         
* Intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives (brand names).         
         
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that 
these might be impaired. The basis of these impairment tests including key assumptions are set out in the table below. 
           
CGU
Basis of 
valuation
Period of 
forecast
Discount 
rate
1
Real
growth
2
Key 
assumptions Source
Weir Seaboard Value in use 5 years 12.2% (2011: 11.9%) 1.2% (2011: 1.2%)
Revenue growth
4
EBIT margins
3
External forecast
Historic experience
Weir SPM Value in use 5 years 12.2% (2011: 11.9%) 1.2% (2011: 1.2%)
Revenue growth
5
EBIT margins
3
External forecast
Historic experience
Warman companies Value in use 5 years 13.9% (2011: 16.4%) 1.7% (2011: 1.7%)
Revenue growth
6
EBIT margins
3
External forecast
Historic experience
Weir Gabbioneta Value in use 5 years 14.2% (2011: 16.9%) 1.2% (2011: 1.2%)
Revenue growth
7
EBIT margins
3
External forecast
Historic experience
         
1 
Discount rate         
The discount rates presented above reﬂect the pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in the most appropriate geographic 
region. The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt ﬁnancing and the pre-tax cost of equity ﬁnance. In the main there has 
been an increase in the WACC relative to 2011 in mature economies largely due to an increase in government bond yields. Government bond 
yields in Italy have decreased signiﬁcantly as local credit risks have reduced, the reduction visible in the Weir Gabbioneta WACC. The discount 
rates for emerging markets has broadly decreased, directly linked to movement in the yield on Government bonds.   
      
2 
Real growth         
Real growth beyond the ﬁve year forecast period of 1.2%, for all businesses except South Africa where a rate of 4.0% is used, reﬂects the 
increasingly global nature of these businesses and the fact that they sell a signiﬁcant proportion of their products to emerging markets which 
have long-term stronger growth prospects than their home markets.        
 
3 
EBIT margins         
EBIT margins have been forecast based on historic levels taking cognisance of the likely impact of changing economic environments and 
competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of associated management actions on costs.    
     
4 
Weir Seaboard         
Weir Seaboard is a wellhead solutions provider focused on the growing North American unconventional oil and gas drilling and production 
markets. Demand for Weir Seaboard’s products and services is closely related to the number of conventional and unconventional oil drilling 
rigs and gas well drilling rigs which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels. Independent forecasts of North 
American oil and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to 
derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the ﬁnal quarter of 2012.
         
         
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
111 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
5
 Weir SPM         
Weir SPM is a supplier of oil and gas well service pumps, associated ﬂow control equipment and services to the oil and gas production 
industry. A large proportion of the business’s revenues are generated in North America with demand being closely related to the number  
of conventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs in operation which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage 
levels. Independent forecasts of North American oil and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices 
and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the ﬁnal 
quarter of 2012.         
         
6
 Warman companies         
The Warman companies supply pumps and associated equipment and services to all global markets. The key drivers for revenues are  
(i) levels of mining capital expenditure which drives demand for original equipment and (ii) levels of actual mining activity which drives demand 
for spare parts and service. Independent forecasts of mining capital expenditure and activity have been used to derive revenue growth 
assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the ﬁnal quarter of 2012.      
   
7
 Weir Gabbioneta         
Weir Gabbioneta is a supplier of heavy duty process applications to oil and gas reﬁnery, petro-chemical and power generation industries. The 
key drivers for revenues are capital expenditure within oil reﬁnery and petro-chemical industries. Independent forecasts of expenditure in these 
sectors have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the ﬁnal quarter of 2012. 
         
Sensitivity analysis         
Base case forecasts show signiﬁcant headroom above carrying value for each of the CGUs. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for 
each CGU to assess the impact of any reasonable possible change in key assumptions. There is no reasonably possible change that would 
cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.          
15. Investments in joint ventures           
The signiﬁcant investments in joint ventures are as follows.         
Total
£m
At 31 December 2010 10.3
Share of results 4.8
Share of dividends (4.1)
Exchange adjustment 0.4
At 30 December 2011 11.4
Share of results 6.4
Share of dividends (5.4)
Exchange adjustment (0.4)
At 28 December 2012 12.0
         
Details of the Group’s share of the balance sheets, revenue and proﬁts of its joint ventures are given below.     
     
2012
£m
2011
£m
Share of joint ventures balance sheets
Goodwill 3.2 3.4
Current assets 12.0 10.8
Non-current assets 2.7 2.8
Current liabilities (4.3) (4.1)
Non-current liabilities (1.6) (1.5)
Net assets 12.0 11.4
Share of joint ventures revenue & proﬁts
Revenue 23.5 18.9
Cost of sales (13.5) (10.8)
Selling & distribution costs (0.9) (0.7)
Administrative expenses (1.6) (1.8)
Income tax expense (1.1) (0.8)
Proﬁt after tax 6.4 4.8
Carrying value of investments in joint ventures
12.0 11.4
         
The Group’s signiﬁcant investments in joint ventures are listed on page 151.        
  
         
          Financial Statements
112 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
16. Inventories         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Raw materials 162.3 139.5
Work in progress 94.7 119.0
Finished goods 255.7 205.3
512.7 463.8
         
17. Trade & other receivables         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Trade receivables 424.0 455.6
Allowance for doubtful debts (12.6) (13.9)
411.4 441.7
Other debtors 24.5 42.5
Sales tax receivable 12.0 12.6
Accrued income 13.1 5.5
Prepayments 17.2 13.8
478.2 516.1
The average credit period on sales of goods is 59 days (2011: 70 days).         
 
Analysis of trade receivables         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Neither impaired nor past due 309.9 343.5
Past due but not impaired 101.5 98.2
Impaired 12.6 13.9
424.0 455.6
         
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Up to 3 months 74.2 77.5
Between 3 & 6 months 14.5 15.1
More than 6 months 12.8 5.6
101.5 98.2
         
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Balance at the beginning of the period (13.9) (13.8)
Impairment losses recognised on receivables* (4.2) (5.3)
Amounts written off as uncollectable 2.6 1.0
Amounts recovered during the period 0.4 0.4
Impairment losses reversed 2.0 3.5
Exchange adjustment 0.5 0.3
Balance at the end of the period (12.6) (13.9)
         
* Includes a fair value adjustment in relation to the Weir Seaboard acquisition of £1.1m adjusted against goodwill.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
113 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Ageing of impaired trade receivables         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Up to 3 months 1.4 1.8
Between 3 & 6 months 1.0 0.9
More than 6 months 10.2 11.2
12.6 13.9
         
18. Construction contracts         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Gross amount due from customers for contract work (included in current assets) 21.7 19.6
Gross amount due to customers for contract work (included in current liabilities) (13.7) (26.8)
8.0 (7.2)
Contract costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts less recognised losses to date 114.7 119.6
Less: progress billings (106.7) (126.8)
8.0 (7.2)
         
The amount of retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £nil (2011: £nil) and the amount of advances received from 
customers for contract work amounted to £2.5m (2011: £5.7m).        
 
19. Cash & short-term deposits         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash at bank & in hand 228.0 73.8
Short-term deposits 163.1 40.1
391.1 113.9
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash & cash equivalents comprise the following
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1 113.9
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (note 20) (6.9) (5.3)
384.2 108.6
         
Cash at bank & in hand earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods  
of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates.         
         
20. Interest-bearing loans & borrowings         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts 3.9 1.7
Short-term borrowings 3.0 3.6
6.9 5.3
Bank loans 58.3 86.2
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (note 27) 0.2 0.5
65.4 92.0
Non-current
Bank loans 242.7 536.3
Fixed rate notes 771.4 158.2
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (note 27) 0.5 0.6
1,014.6 695.1 Financial Statements
114 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
20. Interest-bearing loans & borrowings (continued)         
Bank loans Maturity Interest basis
Weighted average  
interest rate
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
%
2011
%
Revolving credit facility
United States dollar variable rate loans 2014 US$ LIBOR 1.20 1.28 148.0 163.0
Seaboard acquisition ﬁnance
United States dollar variable rate amortising term loan 2014 US$ LIBOR 2.08 2.28 152.9 190.3
United States dollar variable rate bridging loan 2013 US$ LIBOR – 1.78 – 243.7
Other
Uncommitted facility loan 2012 US$ LIBOR – 1.60 – 25.1
Indian rupee term loan 2013 FIXED 13.75 13.75 0.1 0.4
301.0 622.5
Less current instalments due on bank loans
United States dollar variable rate amortising term loan 2014 US$ LIBOR (58.2) (60.8)
Uncommitted facility loan 2012 US$ LIBOR – (25.1)
Indian rupee term loan (0.1) (0.3)
Non-current bank loans 242.7 536.3
Fixed rate notes Maturity Interest basis
Weighted average  
interest rate
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
%
2011
%
Private placement
Sterling ﬁxed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.58 4.58 12.0 12.0
United States dollar ﬁxed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.20 4.20 55.7 58.1
Sterling ﬁxed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.36 5.36 42.9 42.9
United States dollar ﬁxed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.03 5.03 43.3 45.2
United States dollar ﬁxed rate notes 2019 FIXED 3.69 – 129.7 –
United States dollar ﬁxed rate notes 2022 FIXED 4.27 – 364.3 –
United States dollar ﬁxed rate notes 2023 FIXED 4.34 – 123.5 –
Non-current ﬁxed rate notes 771.4 158.2
         
US$ LIBOR is the United States dollar London Inter Bank Offer Rate. The weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over 
and above the interest basis.          
         
The disclosures above represent the interest proﬁle and currency proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities before the impact of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. 
        
         
On 16 February 2012 the Group issued US dollar denominated ﬁxed rate notes via a Private Placement to US investors totalling US$1bn.  
The notes were US$210m of seven year, US$590m of ten year and US$200m of eleven year notes. The average coupon payable is 4.16%. 
Following this issue, the Group repaid in full the US$380m bridging loan undertaken in 2011 to fund the Seaboard acquisition. These  
new notes are in addition to the Group’s existing US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility which was entered into in 2010, and  
the US$300m amortising term loan executed in 2011. As at December 2012, US$242m was drawn under the revolving credit facility  
(this being to fund the acquisition of Mathena, Inc. on 31 December 2012) and US$252m was outstanding under the amortising term loan. 
Total unamortised issue costs at 28 December 2012 were £6.2m (2011: £7.4m).       
  
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
115 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
21. Trade & other payables         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Current
Trade payables 281.5 348.0
Other creditors 13.5 19.0
Other taxes & social security costs 18.0 17.9
Accruals 105.1 109.0
Contingent consideration 0.4 9.1
Deferred income 67.3 66.1
485.8 569.1
Non-current
Other payables 1.9 –
Contingent consideration 24.4 15.5
26.3 15.5
         
22. Provisions         
Warranties 
& onerous 
sales 
contracts
£m
Employee 
related
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
warranty & 
indemnity
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 30 December 2011 50.5 26.2 5.5 8.1 90.3
Prior year adjustments 1.8 – – 0.5 2.3
At 30 December 2011 (restated note 2) 52.3 26.2 5.5 8.6 92.6
Additions 19.5 5.1 – 5.8 30.4
Acquisitions 0.1––– 0.1
Disposal of business (2.9) – – – (2.9)
Utilised (20.6) (3.8) (0.5) (7.6) (32.5)
Unutilised (12.5) (0.3) (3.3) (0.5) (16.6)
Exchange adjustment (1.3) (0.1) – (0.1) (1.5)
At 28 December 2012 34.6 27.1 1.7 6.2 69.6
Current 2012
26.7 3.9 0.7 5.1 36.4
Non-current 2012 7.9 23.2 1.0 1.1 33.2
34.6 27.1 1.7 6.2 69.6
Current 2011 (restated note 2) 41.8 3.6 3.3 6.8 55.5
Non-current 2011 (restated note 2) 10.5 22.6 2.2 1.8 37.1
52.3 26.2 5.5 8.6 92.6
         
Warranties and onerous sales contracts         
Provision has been made in respect of actual warranty and contract penalty claims on goods sold and services provided and allowance  
has been made for potential warranty claims based on past experience for goods and services sold with a warranty guarantee. It is expected 
that all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within ﬁve years of the balance sheet date. Provision has been made in respect  
of sales contracts entered into for the sale of goods in the normal course of business where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations 
under the contracts exceed the economic beneﬁts expected to be received from the contracts. Provision is made immediately when it becomes 
apparent that expected costs will exceed the expected beneﬁts of the contract. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred 
within one year of the balance sheet date.
         
Employee related         
Employee related provisions arise from legal obligations and asbestosis claims and are based on management’s best estimate of the likely 
costs. It is expected that the costs will be incurred in the period up to 2025.       
   Financial Statements
116 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
22. Provisions (continued)
Discontinued operations warranty & indemnity         
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations include provision for warranty and indemnity exposures under asset and share sale 
agreements. The provision as at 28 December 2012 is based on management’s current best estimate of the remaining liabilities. The actual 
outcome may differ and, in some cases, this may be dependent on the outcome of legal proceedings. It is expected that the majority of these 
costs will be incurred within two years of the balance sheet date with the remaining costs expected to be incurred within ﬁve years of the 
balance sheet date.         
         
Other         
Other provisions relate to an environmental clean up programme in the United States for a company acquired in 1992 and various other legal 
claims and exposures across the Group. The environmental provision is based on management’s current best estimate of the expected costs 
under the programme. It is expected that these costs will be incurred in the period up to 2019.     
    
23. Deferred tax       
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Deferred income tax assets
Post-employment beneﬁts 23.0 23.0
Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 3.0 6.0
Intangible assets 0.6 0.9
Untaxed reserves 65.0 73.1
Offset against liabilities (61.2) (64.3)
Deferred income tax assets 30.4 38.7
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (31.6) (25.9)
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings (24.1) (27.1)
Intangible assets (154.9) (148.2)
Other temporary differences (13.1) (12.4)
Offset against assets 61.2 64.3
Deferred income tax liabilities (162.5) (149.3)
Net deferred income tax liability
(132.1) (110.6)
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
117 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the period was as follows.      
   
Post 
employment 
beneﬁts
£m
Accelerated 
depreciation 
for tax 
purposes
£m
Overseas 
tax on 
unremitted 
earnings
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Untaxed 
reserves 
& other 
temporary 
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2010 18.9 (9.0) (21.7) (79.6) 43.4 (48.0)
Acquisitions – (4.4) – (75.2) 13.5 (66.1)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (note 7) (5.0) (6.5) (6.7) 7.2 (1.9) (12.9)
Credited to equity 9.1––– 5.7 14.8
Exchange adjustment – – 1.3 0.3 – 1.6
At 30 December 2011 – restated (note 2) 23.0 (19.9) (27.1) (147.3) 60.7 (110.6)
Acquisitions – (2.2) – (21.4) 0.6 (23.0)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (note 7) (0.5) (7.6) 3.0 8.3 (4.7) (1.5)
Credited (charged) to equity 0.7––– (3.1) (2.4)
Exchange adjustment (0.2) 1.1 – 6.1 (1.6) 5.4
At 28 December 2012 23.0 (28.6) (24.1) (154.3) 51.9 (132.1)
Untaxed reserves primarily relate to temporarily disallowed inventory/debtor provisions and accruals/provisions for liabilities where the tax 
allowance is deferred until the cash expense occurs.         
Deferred tax asset balances for unused tax losses of £4.5m (2011: £1.6m) have not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufﬁcient 
evidence that these assets will be recoverable. These assets will be recovered when future tax charges are sufﬁcient to absorb these tax 
beneﬁts. Deferred tax asset balances for capital losses in the UK amounting to £9.8m (2011: £10.7m) have not been recognised but would  
be available in the event of future capital gains being incurred by the Group.       
 
Temporary differences associated with Group investments       
A deferred tax liability of £24.1m (2011: £27.1m) has been recognised in respect of taxes on the unremitted earnings of the South American 
and Canadian subsidiaries. As at 28 December 2012, this is the only recognised deferred tax liability in respect of taxes on unremitted 
earnings as the Group does not foresee a distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries or joint ventures which would result  
in a reversal of deferred tax. The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred 
tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to £1,367.0m (2011: £1,095.0m).       
  
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.   
      
A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the June 2012 Budget and Autumn statement. The Finance Act 
2012 enacted legislation to reduce the UK corporate rate of taxation from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013. A further reduction in the UK rate 
has been announced reducing the corporation tax main rate to 21% from April 2014. This further change has not been substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date and therefore, is not reﬂected in the consolidated results for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012. We expect 
that these reductions will not have a material effect on the effective tax rate or on the proﬁt for the year in future periods.   
       Financial Statements
118 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
24. Pensions & other post-employment beneﬁt plans        
The Group has ﬁve main deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans in the UK and North America. All deﬁned beneﬁt plans are closed to new members. 
The most signiﬁcant of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans are the two funded UK plans. Contributory salary in respect of the Group’s main UK plan  
is capped and will increase in line with RPI inﬂation up to a maximum of 5% per annum. The Group also provides certain additional post-
retirement healthcare beneﬁts to senior employees in the United States. These beneﬁts are unfunded. The assets and liabilities of the plans 
are as follows.         
         
UK pensions
North American pensions & 
post-retirement healthcare Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Plan assets at fair value
Equities 156.9 150.2 7.7 7.1 164.6 157.3
Bonds 121.3 91.4 6.9 6.3 128.2 97.7
Insurance policy 348.2 335.3 – – 348.2 335.3
Other 7.6 14.8 0.9 1.1 8.5 15.9
Fair value of plan assets 634.0 591.7 15.5 14.5 649.5 606.2
Present value of plan liabilities (709.9) (662.3) (30.0) (28.6) (739.9) (690.9)
Net pension liability (75.9) (70.6) (14.5) (14.1) (90.4) (84.7)
         
The pension plans have not directly invested in any of the Group’s own ﬁnancial instruments nor in properties or other assets used by the Group.  
         
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period 
are analysed as follows.         
         
UK pensions
North American pensions & 
post-retirement healthcare Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
Current service cost 2.1 1.3 – – 2.1 1.3
Past service gain – exceptional item (note 5) – (19.0) – – – (19.0)
Expected return on plan assets (30.5) (32.2) (0.6) (0.9) (31.1) (33.1)
Interest cost on plan liabilities 31.1 33.1 1.2 1.3 32.3 34.4
Other ﬁnance costs 0.6 0.9 0.6 0.4 1.2 1.3
Taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Actual return on plan assets 63.6 31.7 1.5 0.5 65.1 32.2
Less: expected return on plan assets (30.5) (32.2) (0.6) (0.9) (31.1) (33.1)
33.1 (0.5) 0.9 (0.4) 34.0 (0.9)
Other actuarial losses (45.3) (41.7) (2.8) (2.4) (48.1) (44.1)
Actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income (12.2) (42.2) (1.9) (2.8) (14.1) (45.0)
         
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualiﬁed actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected 
unit method. The Group made special contributions of £7 .5m in 2012 (2011: £6.6m) in addition to the employers regular contributions. The special 
contributions for 2013 are expected to be £12.1m, reducing to £9.6m in 2014. The total contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt plans in 2013 are 
expected to be £15.4m (2012: £11.0m). Plan assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall expected 
rates of return are established by applying published brokers forecasts to each category of plan assets and allowing for plan expenses. 
         
Under IAS19 (Revised), there will be no impact on the disclosed deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. The net charge to the Income Statement will 
increase by approximately £3m following the introduction of the concept of recognising net interest on the net deﬁned beneﬁt obligation  
in place of the interest on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the expected return on plan assets recognised under the current standard. 
        
The Executive Scheme Triennial Valuation was signed on 30 April 2012 and the Main Scheme Triennial Valuation was signed on  
31 January 2013.          
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
119 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
UK pensions
North American 
pensions
Post-retirement 
healthcare
2012
%
2011
%
2012
%
2011
%
2012
%
2011
%
Main assumptions
Rate of salary increase 2.9 3.1 3.3 3.4 n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
 Pre 6 April 2006 service 2.9 2.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 Post 6 April 2006 service 2.1 1.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Discount rate 4.3 4.8 3.9 4.5 3.9 4.5
Expected rates of return on plan assets
 Equities * 7.6 * 6.2 n/a n/a
 Bonds * 3.4 * 4.1 n/a n/a
 Insurance policy * 4.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a
 Other * 2.6 * 3.8 n/a n/a
Retail Prices inﬂation assumption 2.9 3.1 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Consumer Prices inﬂation assumption 2.2 2.2 2.0 2.2 2.4 2.1
Rate of increase in healthcare costs n/a n/a n/a n/a *** **
* IAS19 (Revised), effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 caps the expected rate of return on assets at the discount rate applied to plan liabilities.  
** 8.30% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.       
*** 7.70% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards.       
  
UK pensions
North American 
pensions
Post-retirement 
healthcare
2012
Years
2011
Years
2012
Years
2011
Years
2012
Years
2011
Years
Post-retirement mortality
 Current pensioners at 65 – male 21.8 20.9 19.9 19.3 19.5 19.1
 Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.3 23.7 21.8 21.3 21.4 21.0
 Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.6 23.0 21.4 19.4 21.0 19.1
 Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.3 25.8 22.6 21.4 22.3 21.0
         
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to an employee retiring in 2032  
(in 20 years time).         
         
Changes in key assumptions can have a signiﬁcant effect on the reported retirement beneﬁt obligation and the income statement expense  
for 2013. The effects of changes in those assumptions are set out in the table below.      
   
Increase
2012
£m
Decrease
2012
£m
Increase
2011
£m
Decrease
2011
£m
Discount rate
 Effect on Consolidated Income Statement in the following ﬁnancial year of a 1% change 4.3 (3.4) 0.8 (2.1)
 Effect on net liability of a 1% change 70.6 (87.8) 71.1 (71.7)
         
The impact on the net liability is signiﬁcantly reduced as a result of the insurance policies held. In the absence of such policies, the impact  
of a 1% decrease in discount rates would be broadly £37m higher.        
 
A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in post retirement healthcare costs would have the following effects.  
       
Increase
2012
£m
Decrease
2012
£m
Increase
2011
£m
Decrease
2011
£m
Effect on net liability (0.7) 0.6 (0.6) 0.5 Financial Statements
120 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
24. Pensions & other post-employment beneﬁt plans (continued)
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are analysed as follows.      
   
UK pensions
North American pensions & 
post-retirement healthcare Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 662.3 633.9 28.6 25.9 690.9 659.8
Current service cost 2.1 1.3 – – 2.1 1.3
Past service gain – (19.0) – – – (19.0)
Interest cost 31.1 33.1 1.2 1.3 32.3 34.4
Beneﬁts paid (31.0) (29.5) (1.3) (1.3) (32.3) (30.8)
Contributions by employees 0.1 0.8 – – 0.1 0.8
Actuarial losses 45.3 41.7 2.8 2.4 48.1 44.1
Exchange adjustment – – (1.3) 0.3 (1.3) 0.3
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 709.9 662.3 30.0 28.6 739.9 690.9
         
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligations comprise £8.1m (2011: £8.4m) arising from unfunded plans and £731.8m (2011: £682.5m) from plans that are 
wholly or partially funded.          
         
The past service gain for 2011 of £19.0m arose as a result of a decision by the Trustees of The Weir Group Pension and Retirement Saving 
Scheme that, following the Government’s change in legislation, certain elements of pension would increase in line with Consumer Prices 
Index (CPI) rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI). This decision was announced to the members of the scheme in July 2011. The past 
service gain was recognised last year as an exceptional item in the Consolidated Income Statement.      
    
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.        
 
UK pensions
North American pensions & 
post-retirement healthcare Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening plan assets 591.7 580.6 14.5 14.2 606.2 594.8
Expected return on plan assets 30.5 32.2 0.6 0.9 31.1 33.1
Employer contributions 9.6 8.1 1.4 1.1 11.0 9.2
Contributions by employees 0.1 0.8 – – 0.1 0.8
Beneﬁts paid (31.0) (29.5) (1.3) (1.3) (32.3) (30.8)
Actuarial gains (losses) 33.1 (0.5) 0.9 (0.4) 34.0 (0.9)
Exchange adjustment – – (0.6) – (0.6) –
Closing plan assets 634.0 591.7 15.5 14.5 649.5 606.2
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
121 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
History of experience gains & losses  
       
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
UK pensions
Fair value of plan assets 634.0 591.7 580.6 539.8 487.7
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (709.9) (662.3) (633.9) (600.3) (501.3)
Deﬁcit in the plans (75.9) (70.6) (53.3) (60.5) (13.6)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 14.5 0.9 (2.8) (10.6) (10.0)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities (59.8) (42.6) (22.5) (111.6) 70.7
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 33.1 (0.5) 24.0 64.4 (119.2)
North American pensions & post-retirement healthcare
Fair value of plan assets 15.5 14.5 14.2 12.4 61.2
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (30.0) (28.6) (25.9) (22.9) (77.5)
Deﬁcit in the plans (14.5) (14.1) (11.7) (10.5) (16.3)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities – (0.3) (0.3) 1.5 –
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities (2.8) (2.1) (2.3) (1.2) 0.1
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 0.9 (0.4) 0.5 (0.2) (3.6)
         
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income since 28 December 2003 is a loss  
of £109.1m (2011: £95.0m).         
         
The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension plan deﬁcits are attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception  
of those pension plans. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been 
recognised on an IFRS basis in other comprehensive income before 27 December 2003.
         
25. Share capital & reserves         
2012
Number
Million
2011
Number
Million
Issued & fully paid share capital
At the beginning of the period 213.0 212.8
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.6 0.2
At the end of the period 213.6 213.0
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 1.7 2.1
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards (0.6) (0.4)
At the end of the period 1.1 1.7
         
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to ﬁxed income.      
   
As at 28 December 2012, 125,196 shares (2011: 168,142 shares) were held by the Kleinwort EBT with a market value of £2.3m (2011: £3.4m).
As at 28 December 2012, 104,568 shares (2011: Nil) were held by the Appleby EBT for the strategic and matching elements of the deferred 
bonus and 51,255 shares (2011: £Nil) for the deferred element. These shares have a market value of £2.9m (2011: £Nil).   
      
Capital redemption reserve         
The capital redemption reserve was created by a repurchase and cancellation of own shares during the 53 weeks ended 1 January 1999. 
        
Foreign currency translation reserve         
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements  
of foreign operations and the Group’s hedge of its net investment in foreign operations.       
    Financial Statements
122 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
25. Share capital & reserves (continued)
Hedge accounting reserve         
This reserve records the portion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used as cash ﬂow hedges that are determined to be effective. Net gains 
(losses) transferred from equity into proﬁt or loss during the period are included in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue – (0.5)
Cost of sales (0.8) 2.0
(0.8) 1.5
         
26. Additional cash ﬂow information         
2012
£m
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Continuing operations
Net cash generated from operations
Operating proﬁt 469.1 407.9
Non cash exceptional items (20.2) –
Share of results of joint ventures (6.4) (4.8)
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 49.4 37.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 36.7 23.8
Impairment of plant & equipment – 0.4
Gains on disposal of property, plant & equipment (0.9) (0.8)
Deﬁned beneﬁt plans past service credit – (19.0)
Funding of pension & post-retirement costs (1.3) (1.3)
Employee share schemes 7.5 4.9
Net foreign exchange including derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.3 4.5
(Decrease) increase in provisions (18.7) 5.0
Cash generated from operations before working capital cash ﬂows 515.5 457.9
Increase in inventories (61.6) (137.6)
Decrease (increase) in trade & other receivables & construction contracts 24.4 (127.8)
(Decrease) increase in trade & other payables & construction contracts (79.7) 110.1
Cash generated from operations 398.6 302.6
Additional pension contributions paid (7.5) (6.6)
Income tax paid (104.9) (97.3)
Net cash generated from operating activities 286.2 198.7
         
The settlement of the external debt of Seaboard and Novatech on acquisition has been classiﬁed as a ﬁnancing cash ﬂow in accordance  
with IAS7.  
        
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
123 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The following tables summarise the cashﬂows arising on acquisitions:        
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 
Current period acquisitions (see below) (114.9) (384.1)
Previous periods acquisitions contingent consideration paid (8.4) (1.9)
(123.3) (386.0)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition (1.9) (55.4)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – current year acquisitions (114.9) (384.1)
Total cash outﬂow on acquisition of subsidiaries – current year (note 13) (116.8) (439.5)
Previous periods acquisitions contingent consideration paid (8.4) (1.9)
Total cash outﬂow relating to acquisitions (125.2) (441.4)
Disposals of subsidiaries
Current period disposals – proceeds 25.2 –
Current period disposals – cash disposed of (1.8) –
Prior period disposals (0.5) –
22.9 –
Reconciliation of net increase in cash & cash equivalents to movement in net debt
Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations 284.4 5.7
Net increase in cash & cash equivalents from discontinued operations – investing activities (note 8) – 24.6
Net increase in debt (322.6) (362.8)
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂows (38.2) (332.5)
Lease inceptions (0.1) (0.9)
Loans acquired (2.3) (55.6)
Foreign currency translation differences 24.9 (0.6)
Change in net debt during the period (15.7) (389.6)
Net debt at the beginning of the period (673.2) (283.6)
Net debt at the end of the period (688.9) (673.2)
Net debt comprises the following
Cash & short-term deposits (note 19) 391.1 113.9
Current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (65.4) (92.0)
Non-current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (1,014.6) (695.1)
(688.9) (673.2)
Proceeds from sale
25.2 –
Cash disposed (1.8) –
Net cash inﬂow from current year disposals 23.4 –
Current year disposals had the following effect on the Group's assets and liabilities
Trade and other receivables 6.2 –
Construction contract assets 0.9 –
Net derivative ﬁnancial instruments (0.6) –
Trade and other payables (8.1) –
Construction contract liabilities (6.7) –
Provisions (2.9) –
Net assets disposed (11.2) –
          Financial Statements
124 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
27. Commitments & legal claims         
Operating lease commitments         
The Group has entered into commercial leases for land and buildings, motor vehicles and plant and equipment. Land and building leases 
have an average term of between two and ten years, motor vehicles leases have an average term of between two and four years and plant 
and equipment leases have an average term of between three and ﬁve years. Certain leases have terms of renewal, at the option of the 
lessee, but there are no purchase options or escalation clauses. Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases  
are shown in the table below.         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Less than one year 25.0 16.0
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 56.1 44.2
More than ﬁve years 19.5 11.1
100.6 71.3
         
Finance lease commitments         
The Group has ﬁnance leases for buildings and items of plant and equipment. Future minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases together 
with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are shown in the table below.      
   
Minimum 
payments
2012
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
2012
£m
Minimum 
payments
2011
£m
Present value 
of payments
2011
£m
Less than one year 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6
After ﬁve years 0.1 – 0.1 –
Total minimum lease payments 0.8 1.2
Less amounts representing ﬁnance charges (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.7 0.7 1.1 1.1
         
The weighted average outstanding lease term is 4.42 years (2011: 4.58 years). For the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, the weighted 
average effective borrowing rate was 5.74% (2011: 5.95%).         
All leases are on a ﬁxed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.   
      
Capital commitments         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for – property, plant & equipment 13.6 28.2
         
The Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to £0.5m (2011: £0.3m).     
    
Legal claims         
The company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course  
of business.          
         
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion and Order was ﬁled with the United States District Court, Southern District of New York dismissing the  
claim against the Company (being one of many companies targeted) relating to a civil action for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food 
programme which was raised in the US. Subsequently the Iraqi Government ﬁled notice of appeal and at the time of writing there has been 
no ruling by the Court on this appeal. We will continue to defend this action vigorously.      
   
To the extent not already provided for, the directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually  
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s ﬁnancial position.      
   
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
125 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
28. Equity settled share-based payments         
LTIP         
There are three types of award which may be made under the LTIP to senior executives: performance shares, matching shares and 
investment shares. Details of each award are outlined in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 80.     
    
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share prices (WASP) of shares awarded under the LTIP.   
      
2012
Number
Million
2012
WASP
2011
Number
Million
2011
WASP
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2.3 £8.26 2.5 £6.32
Awarded during the period 0.5 £19.43 0.5 £16.13
Exercised during the period (1.1) £4.01 (0.6) £7.47
Forfeited during the period –– (0.1) £7.03
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.7 £14.57 2.3 £8.26
         
An amount of £6.7m (2011: £4.9m) has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which are 
expected to be made at the end of the vesting period. This comprises an amount of £2.0m (2011: £1.4m) in respect of parent company 
employees and £4.7m (2011: £3.5m) in respect of employees of subsidiaries.       
  
Certain subsidiary companies made a cash contribution to the parent company of £2.0m (2011: £2.0m) in the period in respect of their 
employees’ LTIP awards.         
         
The remaining contractual lives of the outstanding LTIP awards at the end of the period are as follows.     
    
Year of award
2012
Number
Million
2012
Remaining
contractual 
life
2011
Number
Million
2011
Remaining
contractual 
life
2009 –– 1.2 3 months
2010 0.6 3 months 0.6 15 months
2011 0.6 15 months 0.5 27 months
2012 0.5 27 months ––
         
The fair value of the conditional awards under the LTIP have been estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The following table 
gives the assumptions made during the 52 weeks ended 28 December  2012 and the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 in the calculation 
of the fair value of awards made in those years.          
2012 2011
Weighted average expected volatility (%) 40.00 50.00
Weighted average expected life (years) 3.00 3.00
Weighted average risk free rate (%) 0.53 1.66
Weighted average share price (£) 19.43 16.13
Weighted average fair value (£) 14.32 12.69
          
The expected life of the awards is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected 
volatility reﬂects the assumption that the historical volatility is volatility indicative of future trends which may also not necessarily be the actual 
outcome. Market related performance conditions have been taken into account in the calculation of fair values.    
      Financial Statements
126 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
28. Equity settled share-based payments (continued)        
Deferred Bonus Plan           
There are three types of award which may be made under the Deferred Bonus Plan: shares purchased on the employee’s behalf as part  
of the annual bonus, matching shares and strategic shares for senior executives apart from members of the Group Executive.  
       
         
The following table illustrates the number of shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan.      
   
2012
Number
Million
2011
Number
Million
Outstanding at the beginning of the period – –
Awarded during the period 0.2 –
Exercised during the period – –
Forfeited during the period (0.1) –
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.1 –
         
An amount of £0.8m has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which are expected to be 
made at the end of the vesting period.  
        
29. Related party disclosures         
The following table provides the total amount of signiﬁcant transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant 
ﬁnancial year and outstanding balances at the period end.         
         
Related party
Sales to 
related 
parties – 
goods
£m
Sales to 
related 
parties – 
services
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
goods
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
services
£m
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties
£m
Joint ventures 2012 1.0 0.2 1.7 2.6 –
 2011 0.5 0.2 0.8 1.6 –
Group pension plans 2012 –––– 1.4
 2011 –––– 1.5
         
Contributions to the Group pension plans are disclosed in note 24.        
 
Terms & conditions of transactions with related parties         
Sales to and from related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances at the period end are unsecured and settlement 
occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party balances. For the 52 weeks ended 28 December 
2012, the Group has not raised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been 
excellent (2011: £nil). This assessment is undertaken each ﬁnancial year through examining the ﬁnancial position of the related party and the 
market in which the related party operates.          
         
Compensation of key management personnel
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 6.5 6.6
Share-based payments 2.7 2.0
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.1 –
9.3 8.6
         
Key management comprises the Board and the Group Executive. Further details of the Board remuneration can be found in the 
Remuneration report on pages 66 to 80.         
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
127 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30. Financial assets & liabilities         
Financial risk management objectives & policies        
The principal ﬁnancial risks to which the Group is exposed are those relating to foreign currency, liquidity and credit risk. Foreign currency 
transactional risk arises when operating subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. 
Translational risk arises on the translation of overseas earnings and investments into sterling for consolidated reporting purposes. Credit risk 
is the risk that a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract and liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be 
unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due. In addition, the Group is subject to a degree of interest rate risk on its borrowings. The Group 
uses ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, including derivatives, to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest rate risks as set out below.  
       
Foreign exchange risk policy         
Foreign currency transactional and translational risk could result in volatility in reported consolidated earnings and net assets.  
       
In respect of transactional foreign currency risk, the Group maintains a policy that all operating units eliminate exposures on material committed 
transactions, usually by undertaking forward foreign currency contracts through the Group’s treasury function. In addition, it is Group policy 
that those companies where the most signiﬁcant concentration of foreign exchange risk has been identiﬁed also apply hedge accounting  
in accordance with IAS39. Therefore, some of the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts form part of an effective cash ﬂow hedge. 
Exchange rate ﬂuctuations in respect of the forward foreign currency contracts which form part of a cash ﬂow hedge will have an impact on 
shareholders equity. Exchange rate ﬂuctuations in respect of the other forward foreign currency contracts will have an impact on proﬁt or 
loss. It is Group policy not to engage in any speculative transaction of any kind.       
  
In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy to partially hedge United States dollar (US$) net assets exposure. This is achieved 
through designating an element of US dollar borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net investment 
hedges against the Group’s US dollar investments. The Group does not hedge the translational exposure arising from proﬁt and loss items. 
        
Liquidity risk policy         
Liquidity risk could impact negatively on the Group’s reputation, borrowing costs or ultimately its ability to continue as a going concern. 
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cash ﬂows and ensuring that sufﬁcient committed facilities are in place to meet 
possible downside scenarios. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use  
of bank overdrafts, bank loans and ﬁxed rate notes. Further details of the Group’s borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 20.  
       
Credit risk policy         
Credit risk could have a negative impact on reported earnings and cash and consequently the liquidity of the Group.   
      
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its ﬁnancial instruments.  
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, with 
no signiﬁcant concentration of risk. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade ﬁnance instruments such 
as letters of credit and insurance. Credit worthiness checks are also undertaken with external credit rating agencies before entering into 
contracts with new customers and credit limits are set as appropriate and adhered to. As shown in note 17, the trade receivables presented  
in the balance sheet are net of allowance for doubtful debts. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identiﬁable loss event 
which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash ﬂows. The Group’s exposure to the credit risk  
of ﬁnancial institutions is limited by the adherence to counterparty limits and by only trading with counterparties that have a strong credit 
standing based upon ratings provided by the major agencies.         
Interest rate risk policy         
The Group’s borrowings are in a combination of ﬁxed and variable rates of interest. Interest rate risk is regularly monitored to ensure that the 
mix of variable and ﬁxed rate borrowing is appropriate for the Group in the short to medium-term.     
    
On 16 February 2012, the Group issued US$1bn of ﬁxed rate notes to the US private placement market with maturities of seven years 
(US$210.0m), ten years (US$590.0m) and eleven years (US$200.0m). On receipt of these funds, the Group repaid the US$380.0m bridging 
loan and reduced the proportion of ﬂoating rate borrowings from 80% to 28% at 28 December 2012.      
    
Net investment in foreign operations         
As at 28 December 2012, US dollar ﬁxed rate notes of US$1,088.2m (2011: US$160.0m) and US dollar variable rate loans of US$252.0m 
(2011: US$926.5m), both included in interest-bearing loans and borrowings, cross currency swaps of US$89.4m (2011: US$254.0m) and  
net forward foreign currency liability contracts of US$48.0m (2011: US$48.0m) have been designated as a hedge of the Group’s exposure  
to translational foreign exchange risk on its net investments in Weir SPM, Weir Warman, Seaboard and Novatech. Gains or losses on the 
retranslation of the borrowings and the fair value of the cross currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts are transferred to  
equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in these subsidiaries.     
     Financial Statements
128 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)         
Carrying amounts & fair values         
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are reported  
in the ﬁnancial statements.          
Carrying 
amount
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Carrying 
amount
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Fair value
2011
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Financial assets
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognised at fair value through proﬁt or loss 4.2 4.2 5.8 5.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.7
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 449.0 449.0 489.7 489.7
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1 391.1 113.9 113.9
844.5 844.5 610.1 610.1
Financial liabilities
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognised at fair value through proﬁt or loss (14.6) (14.6) (9.2) (9.2)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships (0.9) (0.9) (30.4) (30.4)
Amortised cost
 Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (6.9) (6.9) (5.3) (5.3)
 Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (424.9) (424.9) (500.6) (500.6)
 Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.7) (0.7) (1.1) (1.1)
 Floating rate borrowings (300.9) (300.9) (622.1) (622.1)
 Fixed rate borrowings (771.5) (792.7) (158.6) (166.1)
(1,520.4) (1,541.6) (1,327.3) (1,334.8)
         
The Group enters into derivative ﬁnancial instruments with various counterparties, principally ﬁnancial institutions with investment grade credit 
ratings. The derivative ﬁnancial instruments are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs including spot and forward 
foreign exchange rates and interest rate curves. The fair value of cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated 
future cash ﬂows based on spot foreign exchange rates. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present 
value of the estimated future cash ﬂows based on spot and forward foreign exchange rates.       
   
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments by valuation technique:  
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;      
Level 2:  other techniques for which all inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly  
or indirectly;         
 Level 3:  techniques which use inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable  
market data.          
         
At 28 December 2012 and 30 December 2011, the Group held all ﬁnancial instruments at level 2 fair value measurement. During the 52 weeks 
ended 28 December 2012 and the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 fair value 
measurements and no transfers into or out of level 3 fair value measurements.        
  
The fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables approximates their carrying amount 
due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of borrowings and obligations under ﬁnance leases is estimated by 
discounting future cash ﬂows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.    
      
         
         
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
129 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments         
Set out in the table below is a summary of the types of derivative ﬁnancial instruments included within each balance sheet category.   
       
2012
£m
2011
£m
Included in non-current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges – 0.1
Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.8 –
0.8 0.1
Included in current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 0.2 0.6
Other forward foreign currency contracts 3.4 5.8
3.6 6.4
Included in current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 0.1 2.1
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.3 0.4
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges – 12.9
Other cross currency swaps 9.1 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts 5.2 9.0
14.7 24.4
Included in non-current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges – 0.7
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 0.5 14.3
Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 0.2
0.8 15.2
Net derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
11.1 33.1
          Financial Statements
130 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)         
Liquidity & credit risk         
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying value of each ﬁnancial asset, including 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments. The liabilities which could impact liquidity risk are best represented by the carrying value and maturity proﬁle 
of each ﬁnancial liability, including derivative ﬁnancial instruments. The following tables include the undiscounted cash ﬂows of ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to receive or pay these ﬁnancial assets or liabilities and include 
both interest and principal cash ﬂows. In respect of derivative ﬁnancial instruments the net credit/liquidity risk is best represented by the net 
inﬂows (outﬂows) shown below together with the Group’s headroom under the borrowing facilities as disclosed in note 20.    
      
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 449.0––– 449.0
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1––– 391.1
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets 840.1––– 840.1
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income
(400.5) (5.4) (4.8) (27.8) (438.5)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.8)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (6.9) – – – (6.9)
Bank loans (60.8) (243.7) – – (304.5)
Fixed rate notes (33.5) (33.5) (159.7) (803.0) (1,029.7)
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities (501.9) (282.8) (164.8) (830.9) (1,780.4)
Net non-derivative ﬁnancial assets (liabilities)
338.2 (282.8) (164.8) (830.9) (940.3)
52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 (restated note 2) Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 489.7––– 489.7
Cash & short-term deposits 113.9––– 113.9
Non-derivative ﬁnancial assets 603.6––– 603.6
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (485.1) – (8.2) (15.8) (509.1)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.5) (0.3) (0.3) (0.1) (1.2)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (5.3) – – – (5.3)
Bank loans (99.0) (312.6) (236.2) – (647.8)
Fixed rate loans (7.6) (7.6) (86.6) (92.7) (194.5)
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities (597.5) (320.5) (331.3) (108.6) (1,357.9)
Net non-derivative ﬁnancial assets (liabilities)
6.1 (320.5) (331.3) (108.6) (754.3)
        
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
131 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Cross currency swaps – outﬂow (53.1) (2.9) (19.3) (43.4) (118.7)
Cross currency swaps – inﬂow 43.8 2.8 19.0 43.1 108.7
Cross currency swaps – net outﬂow (9.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.3) (10.0)
Forward foreign currency contracts – outﬂow (584.8) (13.9) (33.0) – (631.7)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inﬂow 583.3 14.2 33.6 – 631.1
Forward foreign currency contracts – net (outﬂow) inﬂow (1.5) 0.3 0.6 – (0.6)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – net outﬂow (637.9) (16.8) (52.3) (43.4) (750.4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – net inﬂow 627.1 17.0 52.6 43.1 739.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – net (outﬂow) inﬂow (10.8) 0.2 0.3 (0.3) (10.6)
Effect of discounting (0.5)
Net derivative ﬁnancial liabilities (11.1)
52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Cross currency swaps – outﬂow (57.1) (55.3) (20.7) (47.6) (180.7)
Cross currency swaps – inﬂow 45.1 43.9 19.6 45.4 154.0
Cross currency swaps – net outﬂow (12.0) (11.4) (1.1) (2.2) (26.7)
Forward foreign currency contracts – outﬂow (642.4) (23.1) (6.0) – (671.5)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inﬂow 637.6 22.3 5.9 – 665.8
Forward foreign currency contracts – net outﬂow (4.8) (0.8) (0.1) – (5.7)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – outﬂow (699.5) (78.4) (26.7) (47.6) (852.2)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – inﬂow 682.7 66.2 25.5 45.4 819.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – net outﬂow (16.8) (12.2) (1.2) (2.2) (32.4)
Effect of discounting (0.7)
Net derivative ﬁnancial liabilities (33.1)
          Financial Statements
132 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Interest rate risk & maturity proﬁle         
The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and 
the Group’s notional value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments, by maturity, exposed to interest rate risk.  
    
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 Less than 1 
year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate debt
Bank loans (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Fixed rate notes – – (67.7) (703.7) (771.4)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.3) (0.2) (0.3) – (0.8)
(0.4) (0.2) (68.0) (703.7) (772.3)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg – – (19.5) (69.9) (89.4)
Notional cross currency swaps sterling leg – – 12.0 43.0 55.0
– – (7.5) (26.9) (34.4)
Net ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments
(0.4) (0.2) (75.5) (730.6) (806.7)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1––– 391.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (6.9) – – – (6.9)
Bank loans (58.3) (242.7) – – (301.0)
325.9 (242.7) – – 83.2
Floating rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg (81.0) – – – (81.0)
Notional cross currency swaps sterling leg 41.0––– 41.0
(40.0) – – – (40.0)
Net ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instruments
285.9 (242.7) – – 43.2
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
133 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
52 weeks ended 30 December 2011 Less than 1 
year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate debt
Bank loans (0.3) (0.1) – – (0.4)
Fixed rate notes – – (70.1) (88.1) (158.2)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.5) (0.3) (0.3) – (1.1)
(0.8) (0.4) (70.4) (88.1) (159.7)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg – – (12.6) (45.1) (57.7)
Notional cross currency swaps sterling leg – – 12.0 43.0 55.0
– – (0.6) (2.1) (2.7)
Net ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments
(0.8) (0.4) (71.0) (90.2) (162.4)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 113.9 – – – 113.9
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (5.3) – – – (5.3)
Bank loans (85.9) (304.4) (231.8) – (622.1)
22.7 (304.4) (231.8) – (513.5)
Floating rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg (53.5) (52.2) – – (105.7)
Notional cross currency swaps sterling leg 40.6 41.0 – – 81.6
(12.9) (11.2) – – (24.1)
Net ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instruments
9.8 (315.6) (231.8) – (537.6)
         
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed 
as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. The other ﬁnancial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above 
tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.        
  
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax and equity through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings and cross currency swaps in respect of each currency to 
which the Group has a signiﬁcant exposure to interest rate risk.         
 
Increase in 
basis points
Effect on proﬁt 
before tax gain 
(loss)
£m
Effect on 
equity (loss)
£m
2012
UK sterling + 100 2.2 –
US dollar + 100 (1.5) (2.4)
2011
UK sterling + 100 1.5 –
US dollar + 100 (1.8) (9.1)
         
A decrease of 100 basis points would have an equal and opposite effect.       
   Financial Statements
134 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Effect of hedging & derivative ﬁnancial instruments included in the income statement & equity    
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge currency risk associated with expected future sales or purchases for which the 
Group has ﬁrm commitments. The terms of the forward foreign currency contracts are negotiated to match the terms of the commitments. 
During the period two subsidiaries within the Group applied cash ﬂow hedge accounting to these transactions. As at 28 December 2012 one 
of these subsidiaries, LGE Process Ltd, was disposed of and the hedge relationship discontinued with the existing hedge reserve balance of 
£0.2m charged to the income statement. All other forward foreign currency contracts, while representing commercial hedges, are not subject 
to cash ﬂow hedge accounting with all fair value movements being recognised in the income statement.     
     
The net carrying amount, maturity dates and the amounts recognised for the period in proﬁt or loss and equity for each derivative ﬁnancial 
instrument are set out below.          
         
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
Net carrying 
amount
£m Maturity dates
Gain/(loss) 
recognised in 
proﬁt or loss 
£m
Gain 
recognised 
in equity 
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges 0.1 2013 (0.9) 1.0
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (0.3) 2013 – 1.4
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.5) 2013 to 2018 0.4 4.9
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through proﬁt or loss (10.4) 2012 to 2017 (1.7) –
(11.1) (2.2) 7.3
              
52 weeks ended 30 December 2011
Net carrying 
amount
£m Maturity dates
Gain 
recognised in 
proﬁt or loss 
£m
Gain/(loss) 
recognised in 
equity 
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges (2.1) 2012 to 2013 1.5 (1.2)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (0.4) 2012 – (0.1)
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (27.2) 2012 to 2018 0.2 1.0
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through proﬁt or loss (3.4) 2012 to 2017 4.3 –
(33.1) 6.0 (0.3)
The £0.4m gain (2011: £0.2m) recognised in proﬁt or loss in respect of cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges reﬂects 
the beneﬁt of US dollar/sterling interest rate differential. The Group’s forward foreign currency contracts subject to cash ﬂow hedge 
accounting which were deemed to be ineffective during the period resulted in a net charge to the income statement of £nil (2011: £nil). 
        
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
135 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Foreign exchange risk         
The Group considers the most signiﬁcant foreign exchange risk relates to the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Euro and United States dollar. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in these foreign currency exchange rates with all other 
variables held constant. The sensitivity analysis shows the effect on proﬁt or loss in respect of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency, including payables, receivables, borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts but excluding all ﬁnancial assets and 
liabilities qualiﬁed as either cash ﬂow or net investment hedges. The sensitivity analysis also shows the effect on equity in respect of ﬁnancial 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency qualifying as either cash ﬂow or net investment hedges including forward foreign 
currency contracts, borrowings and cross currency swaps. The sensitivity analysis below has been presented to demonstrate the impact  
of a 25% strengthening of the relevant functional currency against the currencies shown below and therefore give an indication of the 
transactional foreign exposure that exists at a subsidiary level across the Group.       
  
Increase in 
currency 
rate
Effect on 
proﬁt gain 
(loss)
£m
Effect on 
equity gain 
(loss)
£m
2012
Australian dollar +25% 0.3 –
Canadian dollar +25% – –
Euro +25% 4.9 0.7
US dollar +25% 5.0 183.3
2011
Australian dollar +25% 0.3 –
Canadian dollar +25% 0.5 –
Euro +25% (12.6) (1.4)
US dollar +25% 9.6 183.7
         
As noted above, the Group does not hedge translational exposure arising from proﬁt and loss items. The Group’s operating proﬁt from 
continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was denominated in the following currencies.   
      
2012
£m
2011
£m
US dollar 302.5 253.5
Australian dollar 57.4 57.0
Euro 36.4 27.7
Canadian dollar 34.9 29.5
Brazilian real 7.8 11.7
Chilean peso 31.3 24.4
South African rand 8.8 8.4
United Kingdom pound (19.2) (18.8)
Other 25.7 19.3
Operating proﬁt from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 485.6 412.7 Financial Statements
136 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
31. Capital management         
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains robust capital ratios in order to support its business and 
maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. 
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or 
issue new shares. The Group monitors capital using the following indicators.       
  
Gearing ratio         
Gearing comprises net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises cash and short-term deposits and interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings (note 26).         
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
2011
Net debt (£m) 688.9 673.2
Total equity (£m) 1,310.3 1,117.5
Gearing ratio (%) 53 60
         
Net debt to EBITDA cover         
Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating proﬁt from continuing operations before exceptional items, depreciation, 
intangibles amortisation and impairment.         
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
2011
Net debt (£m) 688.9 673.2
Operating proﬁt (£m) 469.1 407.9
Exceptional items included in operating proﬁt (note 5) (£m) (20.2) (19.0)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment (£m) 86.1 61.5
EBITDA (£m) 535.0 450.4
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.3 1.5
         
Interest cover         
Interest cover comprises operating proﬁt from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation divided by net 
ﬁnance costs (excluding exceptional items and other ﬁnance costs).        
 
2012 2011
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (£m) 485.6 412.7
Net ﬁnance costs (excluding exceptional items and other ﬁnance costs) (£m) 41.3 15.1
Interest cover (ratio) 11.8 27.3
          
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
137 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The Group’s banking arrangements also require the calculation of net debt to EBITDA and interest cover as part of the bi-annual ﬁnancial 
covenant certiﬁcations. For the purposes of the covenants required by the Group’s lenders, the net debt is to be converted at the exchange 
rate used in the preparation of the Group’s income statement and cash ﬂows, ie. average rate. In addition, proﬁts of businesses acquired  
in the ﬁnancial year have to be included as if the acquisitions occurred at the start of the ﬁnancial year. The covenant calculations for the 
purposes of the Group’s lenders are shown below.         
         
Net debt to EBITDA cover – lender covenants basis         
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
2011
Net debt at average exchange rates (£m) 719.8 652.5
Operating proﬁt* (£m) 471.7 436.2
Exceptional item included in operating proﬁt (note 5) (£m) (20.2) (19.0)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment* (£m) 86.3 67.2
EBITDA* (£m) 537.8 484.4
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.3 1.3
         
Interest cover – lender covenants basis         
         
2012 2011
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* (£m) 488.2 441.7
Net ﬁnance costs (excluding exceptional items and other ﬁnance costs) (£m) 41.3 15.1
Interest cover (ratio) 11.8 29.3
          
* Adjusted for current year acquisitions.         
         
32. Exchange rates         
The principal exchange rates applied in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements were as follows.     
    
 2012 2011
Average rate (per £)
US dollar 1.58 1.60 
Australian dollar 1.53 1.56 
Euro 1.23 1.15 
Canadian dollar 1.58 1.59 
Brazilian real 3.10 2.68 
Chilean peso 770.51 774.99 
South African rand 13.01 11.64 
Closing rate (per £)
US dollar 1.62 1.55 
Australian dollar 1.56 1.51 
Euro 1.22 1.20 
Canadian dollar 1.61 1.58 
Brazilian real 3.30 2.89 
Chilean peso 775.72 805.90 
South African rand 13.69 12.53
 
33. Events after the balance sheet date         
         
On 31 December 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of Mathena, Inc. for an initial cash consideration of US$240m (£148m) with 
potential additional payments of US$145m payable over two years, contingent upon meeting proﬁt growth targets. 
On 20 February 2013, the Group announced the acquisition of R Wales and Cheong foundry and the agreement to acquire a heavy bay 
foundry in South Africa for a total combined consideration of £55m.
        
No further disclosures have been provided under IFRS3 in respect of business combinations after the balance sheet date on the basis that 
the initial accounting is not yet complete.          Financial Statements
138 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
We have audited the Company ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 which comprise  
the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 18. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation  
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (UK GAAP).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance 
that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.  
In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Company ﬁnancial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 28 December 2012;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with UK GAAP; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
Company ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 – the Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012.
James Douglas Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
27 February 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of The 
Weir Group PLC IV
III
II
I
139 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
 Notes 
28 December
2012
£m
30 December
2011
£m
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets 3 1.2 0.8 
Intangible assets 4 1.7 – 
Investments 5 2,245.6 1,597.5 
Total ﬁxed assets 2,248.5 1,598.3 
Current assets 
Debtors 6 38.2 30.3 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11 9.0 17.6 
Cash at bank & in hand * 321.6 47.3 
Total current assets 368.8 95.2 
Creditors falling due within one year 
Creditors 7 697.6 568.7 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11 19.2 29.6 
Total current liabilities 716.8 598.3 
Net current liabilities 348.0 503.1 
Total assets less current liabilities 
1,900.5 1,095.2 
Creditors falling due after more than one year 
Loans 8 1,318.7 694.4 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11 1.4 15.5 
Total creditors falling due after more than one year 1,320.1 709.9 
Provisions 
9 2.1 5.4 
Net assets excluding retirement beneﬁts 
578.3 379.9 
Retirement beneﬁts 
10 1.0 1.0 
Net assets including retirement beneﬁts 
577.3 378.9 
Capital & reserves 
Share capital 12 26.7 26.6 
Share premium 13 38.0 38.0 
Treasury shares 13 (5.6) (5.6)
Capital redemption reserve 13 0.5 0.5 
Special reserve 13 1.8 1.8 
Proﬁt & loss account 13 515.9 317.6 
Total equity 
577.3 378.9 
          
 * The cash at bank & in hand includes £149.4m of short term deposits.          
 
Approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2013        
 
Keith Cochrane  Jon Stanton       
Director   Director          
Company Balance Sheet  
at 28 December 2012   Financial Statements
140 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
1. Accounting policies            
The accounting policies which follow have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these ﬁnancial statements.   
         
Basis of preparation             
The Company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards.   
         
Foreign currency translation           
The presentation and functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into  
the Company’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated  
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised  
in the proﬁt and loss account except when hedge accounting is applied.       
     
Tangible assets             
Tangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at rates of 7.5%  
for ofﬁce equipment and 25% for computer equipment.         
   
Intangible assets            
Intangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is amortised over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at the rate of 25%  
for purchased software.            
Investments            
Investments in subsidiaries are held at historical cost less a provision for impairment.      
      
Deferred tax             
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, 
with the exception that deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that 
there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.   
         
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.     
       
Post-employment beneﬁts             
The Company and other UK subsidiaries of the Group participate in multi-employer deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans which are set up under 
separate trusts. These plans are operated on a basis that does not enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying 
assets and liabilities and, in accordance with FRS17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the plans as if they are deﬁned 
contribution plans.            
            
In addition, the Company has unfunded unapproved pension promises. Contributions are made to the plans on the advice of an independent 
qualiﬁed actuary. Pension plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high 
quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Company’s 
unfunded unapproved pension promises expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating proﬁt. The increase 
in the period in the present value of the plan’s liabilities, arising from the passage of time, is included in other ﬁnance costs. Actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.       
     
Contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are charged to the proﬁt and loss account when they become payable.   
         
Leases            
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.    
        
Notes to the Company Financial Statements IV
III
II
I
141 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Share-based payments            
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), the Executive 
Bonus Scheme (‘EBS’) and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives.    
         
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reﬂect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period  
due to failure to satisfy service conditions or performance conditions.         
    
The EBS is determined as a percentage of the annual bonus. This percentage is matched by the Company with a share award that will  
vest on the third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continues to hold the original bonus shares awarded and continues  
to be employed by the company at the date of vesting. The EBS includes a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior 
employees. The fair value of the matching and strategic elements of the EBS is determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost  
is recognised on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that  
is based on the fair value of the awards. The fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the 
conditions on which the award was granted are modiﬁed.          
   
As permitted by FRS20, the Company has applied FRS20 ‘Share-based Payment’ retrospectively only to equity-settled awards that had  
not vested as at 1 January 2005 and were granted on or after 7 November 2002.       
     
Financial assets & liabilities            
The Company’s principal ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and 
ﬁxed rate notes, cash and short-term deposits.          
  
A ﬁnancial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.   
         
A ﬁnancial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing ﬁnancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modiﬁed, such an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such  
that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in proﬁt or loss.  
          
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments           
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate 
movements. Additionally, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold  
or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.          
   
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair value 
of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows based on spot and forward foreign 
exchange rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future  
cash ﬂows based on interest rate curves and spot foreign exchange rates. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the proﬁt and 
loss account, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions speciﬁed by FRS26 are met. Hedge accounting is applied in 
respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under FRS26 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant 
hedging relationships will be classiﬁed as a cash ﬂow hedge or fair value hedge.        
     
To the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than  
in the proﬁt and loss account. When the hedged item is recognised in the ﬁnancial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised 
in equity will be either recycled to the proﬁt and loss account or, if the hedged item results in a non-ﬁnancial asset, will be recognised as 
adjustments to its initial carrying amount.           
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity  
is transferred to net proﬁt or loss for the period.          
  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS29 and has not disclosed information required by that standard in relation  
to derivative ﬁnancial instruments as the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS7.           
 
Treasury shares            
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classiﬁed in shareholders equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the 
original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, 
issue or cancellation of equity shares.           Financial Statements
142 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
2. Proﬁt attributable to the Company         
The proﬁt dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £267.2m (2011: £11.6m). In accordance with the concession granted under section 408 
of the Companies Act 2006, the proﬁt and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in these ﬁnancial statements. 
        
         
Dividends paid & proposed         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2011: 25.8p (2010: 21.0p) 54.8 44.3
Interim dividend for 2012: 8.0p (2011: 7.2p) 16.9 15.2
71.7 59.5
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2012: 30.0p (2011: 25.8p) 63.8 54.5
         
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, at the date the ﬁnancial statements were 
approved and authorised for issue. The ﬁnal dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between  
the date of approval of the report and ﬁnancial statements and the record date for the ﬁnal dividend.     
    
Directors         
Details of directors remuneration, beneﬁts and LTIP awards are included in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 80.   
      
Auditors remuneration         
The total fees payable by the Company to Ernst & Young LLP for work performed in respect of the audit of the Company were £13,000  
(2011: £13,000). Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in these accounts as the 
Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, in which the Company is included, are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. 
        
3. Tangible assets         
Ofﬁce & 
computer
equipment
£m
Cost
At 30 December 2011 1.8 
Additions 0.9 
Reclassiﬁcations to intangible assets (0.9)
At 28 December 2012 1.8 
Aggregate depreciation
At 30 December 2011 1.0 
Charge for year 0.2 
Reclassiﬁcations to intangible assets (0.6)
At 28 December 2012 0.6 
Net book value at 30 December 2011
0.8
Net book value at 28 December 2012
1.2
         
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
143 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
4. Intangible assets         
Purchased
software
£m
Cost
At 30 December 2011 – 
Additions 1.5 
Reclassiﬁcations from tangible assets 0.9 
At 28 December 2012 2.4 
Aggregate amortisation
At 30 December 2011 – 
Charge for year 0.1 
Reclassiﬁcations from tangible assets 0.6 
At 28 December 2012 0.7 
Net book value at 30 December 2011
–
Net book value at 28 December 2012
1.7
         
5. Fixed asset investments         
Subsidiaries
Shares
£m
Loans
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 December 2011 592.7 1,010.4 1,603.1 
Additions 145.2 595.9 741.1 
Repayments – (93.0) (93.0)
At 28 December 2012 737.9 1,513.3 2,251.2 
Impairment
At 30 December 2011 & at 28 December 2012 0.2 5.4 5.6
Net book value at 30 December 2011
592.5 1,005.0 1,597.5 
Net book value at 28 December 2012
737.7 1,507.9 2,245.6
 
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company are listed on page 151.      
   
6. Debtors         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts recoverable within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 32.8 21.3 
Tax recoverable – 0.8 
Deferred tax recoverable (note 14) 2.3 5.7 
Other debtors 2.6 1.9 
Prepayments & accrued income 0.5 0.6 
38.2 30.3
 
7. Creditors         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 114.7 197.0 
Loans from subsidiaries 544.8 345.2 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 9.6 2.0 
Tax payable 0.5 – 
Other taxes & social security costs 1.3 2.0 
Other creditors 4.8 4.3 
Accruals & deferred income 21.9 18.2 
697.6 568.7
  Financial Statements
144 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
8. Loans         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts due are repayable as follows
Less than one year
– bank loans 58.3 85.9
– loans from subsidiaries 544.7 345.2
More than one year but not more than two years
– bank loans 242.7 304.4 
– loans from subsidiaries 11.9 – 
More than two years but not more than ﬁve years
– bank loans – 231.8
– ﬁxed rate notes 67.7 70.1
More than ﬁve years
– ﬁxed rate notes 703.7 88.1 
– loans from subsidiaries 292.7 – 
1,921.7 1,125.5 
Less current instalments due on:
– bank loans (58.3) (85.9)
– loans from subsidiaries (544.7) (345.2)
1,318.7 694.4
 
The loans from subsidiaries with a maturity greater than ﬁve years are repayable in 2018 and have an interest rate of 6.37%. These loans are 
not secured.         
         
Details of the interest and repayment terms of the bank loans and ﬁxed rate notes can be found in note 30 to the Group Financial Statements. 
        
9. Provisions         
Subsidiaries
£m
Discontinued 
operations warranty 
& indemnity
£m
Total
£m
At 30 December 2011 1.3 4.1 5.4 
Reallocation of opening provision (0.2) 0.2 – 
Released – unutilised – (3.3) (3.3)
At 28 December 2012 1.1 1.0 2.1
 
Subsidiaries         
As at 28 December 2012, a provision of £1.1m (2011: £1.3m) has been made against the deﬁciency of underlying net assets in certain 
subsidiaries. It is expected that this amount will be settled within one year of the balance sheet date.     
    
Discontinued operations warranty & indemnity         
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations include provision for warranty and indemnity exposures under asset and share agreements. 
The provision as at 28 December 2012 is based on management’s current best estimate of the remaining liabilities. The actual outcome may 
differ, and in some cases, this will be dependent on the outcome of legal proceedings. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be 
incurred within two years of the balance sheet date.         
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
145 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
10. Retirement beneﬁts         
The net pension liability in respect of the Company unapproved plan is reﬂected on the Company’s balance sheet. The liabilities of the 
Company unapproved plan are shown below. 
        
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of plan liabilities (1.4) (1.4)
Related deferred tax asset (note 14) 0.4 0.4 
Net pension liability
(1.0) (1.0)
         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Recognised in the proﬁt & loss account
Interest cost on plan liabilities 0.1 0.1
Other ﬁnance costs 0.1 0.1
         
The major assumptions used by the actuary for the Company unapproved plan were as follows.     
    
2012
%
2011
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 2.9 
Discount rate 4.3 4.8 
Inﬂation assumption 2.9 3.1
 
The mortality assumptions used were as follows.         
2012
Years
2011
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 21.8 20.9 
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.3 23.7 
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.6 23.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.3 25.8
 
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to an employee retiring in 2032  
(in 20 years time).         
         
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are analysed as follows.      
   
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 1.4 1.3
Interest cost 0.1 0.1
Beneﬁts paid (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial losses – 0.1
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 1.4 1.4
         
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.        
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening plan assets – –
Employer contributions 0.1 0.1
Beneﬁts paid (0.1) (0.1)
Closing plan assets – – Financial Statements
146 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
10. Retirement beneﬁts (continued)         
History of experience gains & losses         
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.1) (1.1)
Deﬁcit in the plans (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.1) (1.1)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities – ––––
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities – (0.1) (0.2) – (0.1)
         
In addition, the Company also participates in the deﬁned beneﬁt plan arrangements within The Weir Group Pension & Retirement Savings 
Scheme and The Weir Group 1972 Pensions and Life Assurance Plan for Senior Executives. These deﬁned beneﬁts plans are funded 
multi-employer plans which are operated by The Weir Group PLC and which are run on a basis that does not enable individual companies  
to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities. In accordance with FRS17, the Company accounts for its contributions to these 
plans as if they were deﬁned contribution plans. While assets and liabilities in respect of these plans are not reﬂected on the Company’s 
balance sheet, details of these are set out below.          
         
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualiﬁed actuaries on the basis of annual valuations using the projected 
unit method. The Company made special contributions of £7.5m in 2012 (2011: £6.6m) in addition to the employers’ regular contributions.  
The special contributions for 2013 are expected to be £12.1m, reducing to £9.6m in 2014. The total contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt plans 
in 2013 are expected to be £14.4m (2012: £9.6m).         
         
Plan assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall expected rates of return are established by 
applying published brokers forecasts to each category of plan assets and allowing for plan expenses. The actual return on plan assets in the 
period was a gain of £63.6m (2011: £31.7m).          
         
The assets and liabilities of the plans and the long-term expected rates of return are as follows.     
    
2012
%
2012
£m
2011
%
2011
£m
Equities 6.8 156.9 7.6 150.2 
Bonds 3.4 121.3 3.4 91.4 
Insurance policy 4.3 348.2 4.8 335.3 
Other 0.5 7.6 2.6 14.8 
Fair value of plan assets 634.0 591.7 
Present value of plan liabilities (708.5) (660.9)
Net deﬁcit in the plans (74.5) (69.2)
         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Recognised in the proﬁt & loss account
Current service cost 2.0 1.3
Past service gain – (19.0)
Expected return on plan assets (30.5) (32.2)
Interest cost on plan liabilities 31.1 33.0
Other ﬁnance costs 0.6 0.8
Taken to the statement of total recognised gains & losses
Actual return on plan assets 63.6 31.7
Less: expected return on plan assets (30.5) (32.2)
33.1 (0.5)
Other actuarial losses (45.3) (41.6)
Actuarial losses recognised in the statement of total recognised gains & losses (12.2) (42.1)
         
The past service gain of £19.0m in 2011 was as a result of a decision by the Trustees of The Weir Group Pension and Retirement Saving Scheme 
that, following the Government’s recent change in legislation, certain elements of pension would increase in line with Consumer Prices Index 
(CPI) rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI). This decision was announced to the members of the scheme in July 2011. The past service 
gain was recognised last year as an exceptional item in the Consolidated Income Statement.      
    
         
         
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
147 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The major assumptions used by the actuary were as follows.         
2012
%
2011
%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.9 3.1
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
Pre 6 April 2006 service 2.9 2.9
Post 6 April 2006 service 2.1 1.9
Discount rate 4.3 4.8
Inﬂation assumption 2.9 3.1
         
The mortality assumptions used were as follows.         
2012
Years
2011
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 21.8 20.9 
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.3 23.7 
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.6 23.0 
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.3 25.8
 
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The ‘current’ disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with ‘future’ being that relating to an employee retiring in 2032  
(in 20 years time).         
         
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are analysed as follows.     
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 660.9 632.6
Current service cost 2.0 1.3
Past service gain – (19.0)
Interest cost 31.1 33.0
Beneﬁts paid (30.9) (29.4)
Contributions by employees 0.1 0.8
Actuarial losses 45.3 41.6
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 708.5 660.9
         
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.        
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening plan assets 591.7 580.6
Expected return on plan assets 30.5 32.2
Employer contributions 9.5 8.0
Contributions by employees 0.1 0.8
Beneﬁts paid (30.9) (29.4)
Actuarial gains (losses) 33.1 (0.5)
Closing plan assets 634.0 591.7
         
History of experience gains & losses         
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Fair value of plan assets 634.0 591.7 580.6 539.8 487.7
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (708.5) (660.9) (632.6) (599.2) (500.2)
Deﬁcit in the plans (74.5) (69.2) (52.0) (59.4) (12.5)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 14.5 0.9 (2.8) (10.6) (10.0)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities (59.8) (42.5) (22.3) (111.6) 70.7
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 33.1 (0.5) 24.0 64.4 (119.8)
         
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses is £265.1m (2011: £252.9m).  
       
          Financial Statements
148 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
11. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current assets
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments due within one year
Forward foreign currency contracts 8.1 16.5 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments due after more than one year
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.9 1.1 
9.0 17.6 
Creditors falling due within one year
Cross currency swaps 9.1 12.9 
Forward foreign currency contracts 10.1 16.7 
19.2 29.6 
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Cross currency swaps 0.9 14.3 
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.5 1.2 
1.4 15.5
 
The ﬁgures in the above table are inclusive of derivative ﬁnancial instruments where the counterparty is a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC. 
        
12. Share capital         
2012
£m
2011
£m
Allotted, called up & fully paid
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each 26.7 26.6
 
         
2012
Number
Million
2011
Number
Million
Shares allotted
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.6 0.2 
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 1.7 2.1 
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards (0.6) (0.4)
At the end of the period 1.1 1.7 
Equity settled share-based payments
LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the period 1.7 2.3
         
Further details of the equity settled share-based payments and the associated cost for the period can be found in note 28 to the Group 
ﬁnancial statements.         
         
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
149 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
13. Reserves         
Share 
premium
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Proﬁt & loss 
account
£m
At 31 December 2010 38.0 (6.8) 0.5 1.8 356.7 
Proﬁt for the period – – – – 11.6 
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt plans – – – – (0.1)
Dividends – – – – (59.5)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 10.1 
Exercise of LTIP awards – 1.2 – – (1.2)
At 30 December 2011 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 1.8 317.6 
Proﬁt for the period – – – – 267.2 
Dividends – – – – (71.7)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 4.9 
Purchase of shares – (2.0) – – –
Exercise of LTIP awards – 2.0 – – (2.1)
At 28 December 2012 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 1.8 515.9 
         
The proﬁt and loss account above is stated after deducting an accumulated loss in respect of retirement beneﬁts of £1.0m (2011: £1.0m). 
        
14. Balance sheet – deferred tax         
Deferred tax
asset
£m
At 30 December 2011 6.1 
Included in proﬁt for the period (0.8)
Credit for the period included in equity (2.6)
At 28 December 2012
 2.7 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Included in debtors (note 6) 2.3 5.7 
Included in retirement beneﬁts (note 10) 0.4 0.4 
2.7 6.1 
Other timing differences 2.3 5.7 
Retirement beneﬁts 0.4 0.4 
2.7 6.1
 
15. Operating lease commitments         
2012
£000
2011
£000
As at 28 December 2012, annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of ofﬁce 
equipment amounted to 9 9 
of which payable in respect of operating leases ending in the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 9 9 
          Financial Statements
150 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
16. Contingent liabilities & legal claims          
Guarantees         
The Company has given guarantees in relation to the bank and other borrowings of certain subsidiary companies. The net funds of the 
companies party to these facilities as at 28 December 2012 amounted to £228.8m (2011: £125.2m).     
    
Legal claims         
The company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course  
of business.          
         
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion and Order was ﬁled with the United States District Court, Southern District of New York dismissing the  
claim against the Company (being one of many companies targeted) relating to a civil action for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food 
programme which was raised in the US. Subsequently the Iraqi Government ﬁled notice of appeal and at the time of writing there has been 
no ruling by the Court on this appeal. We will continue to defend this action vigorously.      
   
To the extent not already provided for, the directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually  
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s ﬁnancial position.      
         
17. Related party disclosures         
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS8 from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly owned  
by a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC. The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with 
non-wholly owned related parties for the relevant ﬁnancial year and outstanding balances at the period end.    
Related party
Management 
charge
£m
Amounts 
due by
£m
Weir Minerals (India) Private Ltd 2012 0.4 0.1 
2011 0.4 0.4 
         
18. Financial risk management objectives and policies         
A description of the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies is provided in note 30 to the Group ﬁnancial statements.  
        
These ﬁnancial risk management objectives and policies also apply to the Company.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Continued IV
III
II
I
151 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Name
Country of 
registration or 
incorporation
% equity 
interest 
2012
Subsidiaries
American Hydro Corporation USA 100 
EnviroTech Pumpsystems Inc USA 100 
Gema Industrigummi AB Sweden 100 
Linatex Rubber Products Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 
Mesa Manufacturing Inc USA 100 
Multiﬂo Pumps Pty Ltd Australia 100 
Seaboard Holdings Inc USA 100 
Shengli Oilﬁeld Weir Highland Pumps Company Ltd China 60 
Specialised Petroleum Manufacturing Ltd Scotland 100 
SPM Flow Control Inc USA 100 
SPM Flow Control Ltd Canada 100 
Vulco SA Chile 99 
Weir Canada Inc Canada 100 
Weir do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100 
Weir Engineering Services Ltd Scotland 100 
Weir Floway Inc USA 100 
Weir Gabbioneta Srl Italy 100 
Weir Hazleton Inc USA 100 
Weir India Private Ltd India 100 
Weir International Co. Ltd South Korea 60 
Weir Minerals Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 
Weir Minerals Australia Ltd Australia 100 
Weir Minerals Europe Ltd England & Wales 100 
Weir Minerals Netherlands BV Netherlands 100 
Novatech Holdings Inc USA 100 
Weir Power & Industrial France SAS France 100 
Weir Slurry Group Inc USA 100 
Weir Solutions FZE Dubai 100 
Weir SOS Ltd The Bahamas 100 
Weir Valves & Controls UK Ltd* England & Wales 100 
Weir Valves & Controls USA Inc USA 100 
Weir Valves & Controls (Suzhou) Co. Ltd China 100 
Ynﬁniti Engineering Services SL Spain 77 
Joint ventures
Weir Arabian Metals Company Saudi Arabia 49 
Wesco LLC UAE 49
 
* Company whose shares are owned directly by The Weir Group PLC.   
   
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation  
to subsidiary undertakings whose results or ﬁnancial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the ﬁnancial statements.  
 
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is attached to the annual return of the The Weir Group PLC ﬁled at Companies House. 
Group products
In this Report, the following trademarks are registered in one or more countries: 
WARMAN is a trademark of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd and Weir Group African IP Ltd; CAVEX is a trademark of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd; VULCO is a 
trademark of Vulco SA; LINATEX is a trademark of Linatex Ltd; SPM is a trademark of S.P.M. Flow Control, Inc; SEABOARD is a trademark of Seaboard 
International, Inc; NOVATECH is a trademark of Novatech, LLC; MESA is a trademark of Mesa Manufacturing, Inc; GABBIONETA is a trademark of Weir 
Gabbioneta Srl; WEIR OIL & GAS SERVICES is a trademark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd; ALLEN STEAM TURBINES is a trademark of Weir Engineering 
Services Ltd; AMERICAN HYDRO is a trademark of American Hydro Corporation; ATWOOD & MORRILL and TRICENTRIC are trademarks of Weir Valves  
& Controls USA, Inc; BDK is a trademark of Weir India Pvt Ltd; BATLEY VALVE, BLAKEBOROUGH, HOPKINSONS and MAC VALVE are trademarks of Weir 
Valves & Controls UK Ltd; SARASIN-RSBD and SEBIM are trademarks of Weir Power & Industrial France SAS; WEMCO is a trademark of FLSmidth A/S  
used under licence by companies forming part of The Weir Group PLC; WEIR is a trademark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd.  
Principal Companies of the Group
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group are as follows. Financial Statements
152 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Shareholder information
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are: 
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol, BS99 6ZZ 
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus 
Telephone: 0870 707 1402 
Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certiﬁcate, etc. should be addressed  
to Computershare. 
Investor Centre 
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare. This service allows you to view your share portfolio 
and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, update payment 
instructions and receive your shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
and enter your Shareholder Reference Number (‘SRN’) and Company Code WEP. This information can be found on your share certiﬁcate  
or dividend tax voucher.
Dividends
2012 ﬁnal dividend 
The directors have recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 30.0p per share, for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012. Payment of this dividend  
is subject to approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. Key dates relating to this dividend are given below: 
Ex dividend date   1 May 2013
Record date   3 May 2013 
Final day for receipt of DRIP elections   9 May 2013
Annual General Meeting   1 May 2013
Payment date   31 May 2013
Dividend payments
You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways. Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your 
registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: 
 – Direct payment to your bank
 Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account. This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques 
becoming lost or delayed in the post. To switch to this method of payment you can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or download 
a dividend mandate form from the FAQ section of the Company’s website (weir.co.uk), under ‘Shareholder Information’ in the ‘Investor’ 
section. Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have. A Consolidated 
Tax Voucher (‘CTV’) detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent you once a year either electronically or to your 
registered address. In 2013, the CTV will be dispatched with the November 2013 dividend payment and contain the tax and payment 
information for dividends paid during the 2013/2014 tax year.
 – Dividend Reinvestment Plan (‘DRIP’)
 The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare regulated DRIP to use their dividend to purchase further 
Weir Group shares. Instead of receiving cash, shareholders receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking 
into account related purchase costs. Any residual cash will be carried forward and added to their next dividend. If you wish to participate 
in the DRIP, you can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or alternatively, you can complete a DRIP mandate form obtainable from 
Computershare.
 – Global Payment Service
 If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries. This may make it possible  
to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency. Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from  
each individual payment before conversion into your local currency. This service can be set up at www.investorcentre.co.uk or by 
contacting Computershare. 
Capital gains tax
For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p. This 
market value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided 
into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993. Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the 
basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share 
for every ﬁve ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary 
shares held.  IV
III
II
I
153 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Communications
Annual and Interim Reports
The Weir Group publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year. The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders who have elected to 
receive a hard copy through the post as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive e-communications (see below). 
The Interim Report is published on the Company’s website and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request. 
E-communications 
The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access shareholder documents, such as Annual Reports and Notices of the AGM,  
via e-communications rather than receiving printed documents in the post. To sign up for e-communications, please register at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. In order to do this, you will need your SRN which can be found on your share certiﬁcate or on your dividend  
tax voucher. Once registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide your email address.  
We will then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are available on the Company’s website.
Company website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Company’s corporate website (weir.co.uk), which contains a wealth of information about the Weir 
Group. The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, recent news from 
the Group and product information. The Investor section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details on the share price, 
our ﬁnancial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a ‘Frequently asked questions’ section. Current and past Annual and 
Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Share dealing services
Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange. 
Internet share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of £30. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases. 
There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal. Real time dealing is available during market hours (08:00 to 16:30 Monday to 
Friday excluding bank holidays). In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours. Up to 90 day limit orders 
are available for sales. To access the service, log on to www-uk.computershare.com/Investor/ShareDealing.asp. Shareholders should have 
their SRN available. The SRN appears on share certiﬁcates and tax dividend vouchers. Please note that, at present, this service is only 
available to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions. Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries.
Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, plus £35. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases. You can contact 
Computershare on 0870 703 0084. Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call. The SRN appears on share certiﬁcates 
and tax dividend vouchers. Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402. Please note this service is, 
at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK and Ireland.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions. Computershare Investor Services 
plc is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC. Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should 
obtain independent ﬁnancial advice. Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he/she 
originally invested.
Voting
Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy.
Shareholder alerts
Unsolicited investment advice and fraud 
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. Share scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced 
or even non-existent shares. 
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors. 
Whilst usually by telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar. Shareholders  
are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free 
company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
 – Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and take a note of any other details they provide, such as a telephone 
number or address.
 – Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Finance Services Authority (‘FSA’) by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister.
 – Report any approach from such organisations to the FSA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fsa.gov.uk/scams, where you can 
also ﬁnd out about the latest investment scams. You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234. 
 – If calls persist, hang up.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised ﬁrm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme. Financial Statements
154 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
Glossary
AGM Annual General Meeting
Appleby EBT Employee beneﬁt trust (Appleby Trust (Jersey) Ltd)
Board The Board of Directors of The Weir Group PLC
bps Basis points
capex Capital expenditure
Company The Weir Group PLC
Director A Director of The Weir Group PLC
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax
EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
EHS Environment, health and safety
elastomer An elastic polymer used in pump linings
emerging markets Asia-Paciﬁc, South America, Africa and the Middle East
EPCs Engineering, Procurement and Construction Companies
EPS Earnings per share
Excellence Committees Weir Group Management Committees ensuring best practice
free cash ﬂow Net cash ﬂow generated from continuing operations excluding the cash impact in relation  
to acquisitions, disposals and net proceeds from/repayments of borrowings
Group The Company together with its subsidiaries
HR Human resources
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP
Input Orders received from customers
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation
Kleinwort EBT Employee beneﬁt trust (Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Ltd)
like for like On a consistent basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions
low carbon industries Nuclear, wind, hydro, solar, biomass and geothermal industries
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
mill circuit The various stages of extracting and processing ore
Oil & Gas Forum An initiative to develop products and services for the North American upstream oil and gas markets 
by leveraging the expertise of all three Weir divisions
operating margin Operating proﬁt including our share of results of joint ventures divided by revenue
ordinary shares The ordinary shares in the capital of the Company of 12.5p each
PBTA Proﬁt before tax and amortisation
Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc
R&D Research and development
ROCE (like for like) Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Seaboard and Novatech EBIT and exceptional items)  
divided by average net assets excluding net debt, pension deﬁcit (net of deferred tax asset)  
and Seaboard and Novatech net assets
RPI UK Retail Prices Index
subsidiary An entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company
TIR Total Incident Rate (medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided  
by 200,000 hours worked)
TSR Total Shareholder Return comprising dividends paid on ordinary shares and the increase or decrease 
in the market price of ordinary shares
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
WTI West Texas Intermediate IV
III
II
I
155 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes Financial Statements
156 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes Financial Calendar
Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal dividend 
1 May 2013
Record date for ﬁnal dividend 
3 May 2013
Shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend.
Annual General Meeting 
1 May 2013
Final dividend paid 
31 May 2013
Cautionary Statement
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements with 
respect to the ﬁnancial condition, operations and performance  
of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty 
since future events and circumstances can cause results and 
developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The 
forward-looking statements reﬂect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed  
as a proﬁt forecast.
Registered Ofﬁce and Company Number
Clydesdale Bank Exchange
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB
Scotland
Registered in Scotland
Company Number 2934
It is important that our Annual Report is produced in an 
environmentally responsible manner, including the sourcing of 
materials. The Annual Report is printed in the UK by CPI Colour,  
a Carbon Neutral printing company, using vegetable-based inks.  
The material is Symbol Freelife Satin (cover) and Arcoprint EW (text).  
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both have ISO 14001 
accreditation for environmental management. The Weir Group PLC
Clydesdale Bank Exchange
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland
Telephone: +44 (0)141 637 7111
Facsimile: +44 (0)141 221 9789
Email: investor-relations@weir.co.uk
Website: weir.co.uk
