 AWG Plc
Anglian House
Ambury Road
Huntingdon
Cambridgeshire 
PE29 3NZ
www.awg.com
AWG Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
www.awg.com
Ref no: AWG080/06/04
ENVIRONMENT STATEMENT
The paper stock used throughout this
report is manufactured using advanced
environmentally friendly technologies
and European environmental legislation
is strictly followed. The paper ON Offset
is made from Elemental Chlorine Free
pulp (ECF). The pulp for this sheet is
obtained from sustainable wood forests.  AWG Plc
AWG Plc's operations principally relate to Anglian Water, the group's
regulated water and wastewater company that is based in the east 
of England. The group also includes an Infrastructure Management Business,
which builds and maintains public infrastructure through private ﬁnancing,
construction and support services.
Anglian Water
Regulated water, wastewater and environmental service
provider to domestic and industrial customers in eastern
England and Hartlepool.
Infrastructure Management Business
AWG Utility Services
Provider of infrastructure maintenance, renewals,
installation and specialist services to the gas, water,
telecoms and electricity sectors
AWG Government Services
Arranger of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects and
providers of specialist technical and facilities management
solutions to the public sector
AWG Construction Services
Designer, manager, constructor and maintainer of client
assets via both one-off and long-term framework contracts
Following a review the structure of the IMB has been changed
(see page 12 for details).
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate
Group publications
AWG Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Anglian Water Services Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2004
Environment Report 2004
Drinking Water Quality Summary Report 2003
To receive a copy of any of these publications 
please call Freephone 0800 919 155.
Disability and Discrimination Act
AWG Plc shareholder communications are available 
in alternative formats in order to provide better access 
to information for those with disabilities. 
For more information on audio tape, braille and 
large print versions please call 0870 600 3953 or, 
for shareholders with hearing difﬁculties, textphone
0870 600 3950.
Contents
1 Operational highlights
2 Chairman’s statement
4 Group Chief Executive’s 
questions and answers
6 Operating and ﬁnancial review 
22 Board of Directors 
24 Directors’ report
26 Corporate governance 
28 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
29 Remuneration report 
35 Independent auditors’ report
36 Group proﬁt and loss account 
37 Statement of group total 
recognised gains and losses 
Statement of movement 
in group shareholders’ funds
38 Group and company balance sheets
39 Group cash ﬂow statement 
40 Notes to the group cash ﬂow statement 
43 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements 
74 Group ﬁnancial history 
75 Shareholder information
front cover
A view over Grafham Water, Cambridgeshire,
which supplies more than three quarters of a
million customers. Operational highlights
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 1
2004 2003 Change
Group turnover £1,759.6m £1,740.0m +1.1%
Operating profit* £341.6m £325.9m +4.8%
Total operating profit £305.4m £248.7m +22.8%
Profit before interest £183.9m £247.5m – 25.7%
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (£79.8m) (£42.4m) – 88.2%
Earnings per share** 50.6p 25.0p +102.4%
Loss per share (52.0p) (26.4p) – 97.0%
Payment to shareholders 47.2p 46.0p +2.6%
Group turnover £1,759.6 million
(2003: £1,740.0 million)
Operating profit* £341.6 million
(2003: £325.9 million)
Payments per share increased in line
within inflation to 47.2 pence 
(2003: 46.0 pence)
Forward order book for infrastructure
management business £1.77 billion
(2003: £1.86 billion)
* Before operating exceptional items of £22.7 million (2003: £63.4 million) and goodwill amortisation of £13.5 million 
(2003: £13.8 million)
** Before loss per share on exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and related tax, of 102.6 pence (2003: 51.4 pence) Chairman’s statement
2 AWG Plc
I was Chief Executive as well as Chairman for nine months of the
year until we recruited Jonson Cox as Group Chief Executive in
January 2004.
The group reported a mixed set of results, with a strong set of
figures from Anglian Water and a disappointing performance
from the Infrastructure Management Business (IMB). Turnover
was in line with last year and operating profits before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation rose to £341.6 million (2003:
£325.9 million). Exceptional charges of £144.2 million, goodwill
amortisation of £13.5 million and net interest of £263.7 million
led to a loss before tax of £79.8 million. This translated to a loss
per share of 52.0 pence, compared with a loss per share of 26.4
pence last year.
The effect of having more than half of our customers metered
was seen in Anglian Water during the hot, dry summer. Drinking
water quality continued to improve, all of our 46 bathing waters
passed the mandatory standards and an Ofwat report for 2002/03
showed Anglian Water has the lowest water leakage rate in
England and Wales. 
In April 2004 Anglian Water submitted a significantly 
revised business plan as part of the ongoing regulatory review. 
In preparing the plan, the board considered the choices to be
made between investment, service and quality improvements 
and the impact these would have on prices to customers.
Reducing the level of capital expenditure enabled Anglian Water
to propose the lowest price increase in customers’ bills of any
water and wastewater company in England and Wales. We await
Ofwat’s draft determination in August 2004, but meanwhile 
we have considerably strengthened our regulatory management
by appointing a Director of Regulation in Anglian Water.
In a challenging marketplace the overall performance of the 
IMB was disappointing. Acceptable results from Utility Services, 
a development gain on the disposal of the Tay wastewater PFI
and profits from other PFI activities in Government Services 
were offset by a poor underlying performance in the other
divisions. Construction Services’ margins were disappointing. 
The harvesting strategy continued in Developments and
Commercial Services, which has been renamed AWG Property. 
A review of AWG Property is underway and will be completed 
by the half-year. Since the year-end, the IMB management has
been strengthened by the appointment of a Chief Operating
Officer and divisional Finance Director.
The major impact on our results, however, was the level of
exceptional charges, largely caused by the disposal and closure
costs of our non-core international businesses. The size of these
charges underlines the dangers of investing overseas in a large
number of disparate countries. In spite of the exceptional costs,
most of which were non-cash, the board is convinced the
decision to exit the international business was the correct one
and that it will be to the benefit of shareholders. This is the third
consecutive year of substantial exceptional costs which over three
years have exceeded £450 million. The bulk of these costs have
related to non-core activity and the board is determined that
shareholders’ interests will be protected to a greater extent 
in the future.
The board is now proposing a final payment to shareholders of
33.2 pence, which together with the interim payment of 14.0
pence per share, would make a total payment of 47.2 pence. 
The payment is in line with AWG’s commitment to maintaining
annual payments per share in line with inflation until the end 
of the current regulatory review period in March 2005.
This final payment will be made in the form of redeemable
shares, a practice the group has followed since March 2000. 
Peter Hickson
Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
Since Jonson Cox joined as Group Chief Executive in January this
year, he has initiated a review of all our businesses. It is clear that
Anglian Water is centrally important to the group and we intend
to increase its operational focus. At the same time, by
concentrating on improving current operations, the IMB is
expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash
oriented and build its order book. In doing so, the aim is for 
the IMB to support the group’s ability to make payments to
shareholders. To create a single identity for the IMB we intend to
re-brand it using the Morrison name.
The process of operational and strategic change has meant there
have been a number of board changes during the year. Executive
Directors Tony Eckford and Euan McEwan left in September and
April respectively. Group Finance Director Elliott Mannis will leave
AWG at the end of June 2004 and the search for a successor is
underway. Non-Executive Director Jim Cronin retired in July and
Andrew Carr-Locke joined as a Non-Executive Director in October. 
Management changes have already taken place and the process
is expected to continue. It is important that as part of such
change, we are able to attract and retain the right people in
what is a highly competitive marketplace. Details of our
remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report on
page 29. This report contains information about a new Long-
Term Incentive Plan which we are proposing as a resolution at
the Annual General Meeting. I believe an appropriate incentive
scheme is essential in order to motivate our senior management
and I hope shareholders will support the resolution.
During the past year, we have also addressed a number 
of corporate governance provisions of the Combined Code. 
In particular, we have examined carefully the effectiveness 
of the board. As Chairman, I have the responsibility for ensuring
that the board can and will provide positive and effective
challenge and support to the Executive team. With Jonson
leading the Executive team, its emphasis must be on delivering
returns to shareholders on a consistent basis. I believe we now
have the basis of an effective partnership which, with a strong
board and management team, will be fully capable of directing
AWG’s future.
The immediate objective is to secure the best regulatory
settlement possible and to continue to strengthen the group’s
management. We must continue to improve financial and
operational controls whilst at the same time refocusing the IMB
so it can make a positive contribution. I have every confidence
that we shall be able to achieve these objectives, which will prove
to be of benefit to both the group and shareholders.
Peter Hickson
2 June 2004
It is clear that Anglian Water is centrally important to the
group and we intend to increase its operational focus. The IMB
is expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash
oriented and build its order book. Group Chief Executive’s questions and answers
The way forward
I’m passionate about utility businesses, particularly water utilities.
I saw this as an excellent opportunity to manage a water and
infrastructure management company.  AWG has historically
enjoyed a good reputation amongst its peers and with the
Regulator.  Today the company is in need of reinvigoration 
and focus ahead of the next five-year asset management period.
The non-water operation of AWG also presents the challenge of
defining its role within the group, and how it can deliver greater
value to AWG’s shareholders.
I’ve been very impressed not only by the quality and experience
of staff around the business, but also by their resilience. The past
three years have seen the distraction of different strategies and
projects, the debt refinancing, acquisitions and international
diversification. Throughout this period our people have remained
resolutely focused on doing their jobs. The group has many
strengths; with a clearer direction, I am confident that we will 
be able to deliver improvements across the group.
First and foremost, the focus over the past three months 
has been on the regulatory review. At the same time, we’ve
carried out a business review, which has set out a direction 
for the next 12 to 24 months. The review underlined the
importance of Anglian Water to the group, and its position at
the heart of the business. Secondly, the review has led us into
some of the changes that we’ve made in the Infrastructure
Management Business to bring that business back to focus 
on operational delivery.
Jonson Cox
Group Chief Executive
What attracted you to AWG?
What has impressed you most
since joining AWG?
What has been your main focus
since joining the group?
4 AWG Plc The group has many strengths; with a clearer direction, 
I am confident that we will be able to deliver improvements
across the group.
Anglian Water is focused on the regulatory review and 
in preparing itself to work with the final determination. 
In our final business plan we confronted the hard choices 
that had to be made between investment, service and quality
improvements and the impact on customers’ bills. As a result 
we were able to significantly reduce the capital expenditure 
and propose the lowest bill increases of any major water and
infrastructure company. One thing is clear – the next five-year
period will set new challenges and we need to meet them.
The business review considered a range of alternatives for the
Infrastructure Management Business, but we decided that the
option that offered the most scope to add value for AWG was to
keep it within the group. We have therefore strengthened the
management of the team and focused it on improving margins,
generating cash and building its order book with blue-chip clients,
many of whom it already serves. Our property business has been
separated out from the IMB and will be reviewed in the first half
of the next financial year.
During the year we have successfully sold the majority of our
international business, which has considerably increased our 
focus on the UK. This process has, however, given rise to a large
proportion of the exceptional charges we announced this year.
Our business review underlined the importance of Anglian Water
to the group and in delivering a consistent yield to our equity
investors. We are therefore very conscious of the importance of
the dividend to our investors. This year we have again delivered
on our policy of maintaining our payments to shareholders in real
terms. However, in common with other utilities in the sector, 
our ability to maintain this policy will depend upon the outcome
of the regulatory determination. 
What are your priorities for the
Anglian Water business?
And your non-water business?
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
What can you say about the
sustainability of the dividend 
going forward? 6 AWG Plc
Through its leakage controls and domestic metering programme, 
Anglian Water has achieved one of the best records in demand
management in the UK.
Demand management
An Anglian Water engineer updating information
of the underground pipe network using Strumap,
a geographical information system developed 
by Geodesys, part of the AWG group.
Strumap enables Anglian Water to store and
update information on its network of pipes. 
The database is accessible 24 hours a day 
to local authorities and other utilities. Operating and financial review
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
Introduction
The following Operating and Financial Review describes AWG’s
operations and structure, as well as providing a commentary 
on the group’s financial performance for the year ended 
31 March 2004. 
Its aim is to give the reader a broader understanding of AWG 
by describing the nature of the markets in which AWG operates,
as well as how wider social, economic and political change can
impact upon the group.
Business overview
AWG principally comprises two divisions: Anglian Water, 
and an Infrastructure Management Business (IMB). 
Anglian Water is a regulated water and wastewater company
based in the east of England. The IMB builds and maintains 
public infrastructure through private financing, construction and
support services. The IMB operates primarily in the utility, urban
regeneration, health, education and transport sectors. Anglian
Water contributes 40.6 per cent of the group’s turnover
(including joint ventures) and 93.4 per cent of its operating 
profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Anglian Water manages the infrastructure it owns and provides
services directly to customers. By contrast, the IMB provides
services to clients that own, or wish to own, assets or
infrastructures. The IMB also manages a number of PFI projects,
some of which are not held for the long-term and will be sold
when the Directors believe the optimum gain can be realised.
Infrastructure management skills are common to both sides 
of the business. Such skills require a detailed understanding 
of the characteristics and capabilities of an asset in order to take
decisions that will result in the optimum balance of performance,
efficiency, and cost over its lifetime.
The group also owns a property business and a small number of
international water and wastewater contracts. Over the past two
years, a large proportion of the property portfolio has been sold
to realise cash and the future strategy of this division is currently
being reviewed. The remaining international contracts are those
that have yet to be sold or closed, following the group’s decision
to exit the international market in order to focus on the UK.
Operating and financial review
Financial performance
Turnover, including the group’s share of joint venture turnover,
improved in the second half and ended slightly ahead of the
previous year. Reduced turnover arose from the harvesting
strategy within AWG Property (formerly Developments and
Commercial Services), together with international disposals
completed part way through the year, but this was offset 
by increases in Anglian Water and the IMB.
Total operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation was £341.6 million (2003: £325.9 million). Total
exceptional charges before tax for the group were £144.2 million.
This comprises £88.3 million in respect of the losses on disposal of
businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic and Sweden, £33.2 million
on other disposals and business closures, a £10.0 million charge
against the property portfolio and other items of £12.7 million. 
Goodwill amortisation in the year was £13.5 million 
(2003: £13.8 million).
Total operating profit, including the group’s share of operating
profits in joint ventures, after exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, was £305.4 million (2003: £248.7 million). Net
interest payable was £263.7 million (2003: £289.9 million which
included £70.0 million of exceptional interest charges in relation
to the refinancing of Anglian Water). Profit before tax, exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation was £77.9 million (2003: £106.0
million). After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, the
loss before tax was £79.8 million (2003: £42.4 million).
The tax credit before exceptional items was £4.3 million (2003:
£37.5 million charge). There was a tax credit on exceptional items
of £4.2 million (2003: £27.8 million), resulting in an overall tax
credit of £8.5 million (2003: £9.7 million charge). This includes a
credit of £10.1 million (2003: £20.0 million charge) for deferred
tax, which principally results from changes in discount rates. 
Earnings per share, before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation, were 50.6 pence (2003: 25.0 pence). The
improvement reflects the tax credit and the reduced number 
of ordinary shares in issue following the share consolidation on 
13 June 2003. After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation,
the loss per share was 52.0 pence (2003: 26.4 pence).
Trenchless, directional drilling technology was
used by the Anglian Water drilling crews to install
the new sewer system near Grimsby. As well as
cost and time savings, the work has been carried
out with minimal disruption. Following the
success of the project, it is planned to continue
this approach in the future. Operating and financial review continued
8 AWG Plc
Shareholder return 
A £1.00 per share return of capital was made in July 2003 at a
cost of £169.4 million. The board proposes a final payment to
shareholders of 33.2 pence per share, which equates to £47.4
million (2003: £57.5 million). Together with the interim payment
of 14.0 pence per share, this makes a total payment of 47.2
pence per share (2003: 46.0 pence), up 2.6 per cent on the
previous year.
The further payment will be made in the form of redeemable
shares. The record date for the final ordinary payment will 
be close of business on 18 June 2004 and the shares may 
be redeemed in September 2004.
Cash
The cash flow from operating activities increased by £50.2 million
to £515.3 million (2003: £465.1 million). This was largely
attributable to the improved operating profit in Anglian Water
and the contribution from the ongoing disposal of the property
portfolio. 
Net debt
Net debt fell by £30.5 million to £3,190.6 million (2003:
£3,221.1 million), which reflects the proceeds from business
disposals, net of capital expenditure, payments to shareholders,
and the year-end emphasis on cash.
Pensions
AWG continues to account for pensions in accordance with
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 (SSAP 24).
Applying SSAP 24 results in the company having for its group
pension schemes a net pension prepayment at 31 March 2004 
of £22.1 million. This compares with the FRS 17 pension deficit 
of £166.6 million which includes a deficit of £8.0 million in
respect of the AWG Pension and Life Assurance Plan not
previously reported under FRS 17. One of the reasons for the
difference is that SSAP 24 recommends that the pension scheme
is valued at least once every three years, with the last valuation for
the two main schemes being 31 March 2002. Under FRS 17 the
valuation is updated every year. In addition, the assumptions used
under FRS 17 are different from those in SSAP 24. Under FRS 17
the discount rate used for calculating scheme liabilities is the yield 
on AA corporate bonds, whereas SSAP 24 uses a higher discount
based on the expected return on scheme assets.
AWG made additional pension contributions totalling £9.1 million
in the year (2003: £6.7 million). Future contributions to the 
AWG Pension Scheme will continue to be made in line with
actuarial advice. 
During the year, an approximate funding update was carried out
for the purposes of assessing the cash requirements of the AWG
Pension Scheme for the regulatory periodic review. Although not
a full actuarial valuation and not constituting a ‘later formal
review’ (as defined by SSAP 24) this indicated an actuarial deficit
(after tax) of £145.0 million at 31 March 2003. It is anticipated
that the appropriate level of pensions costs will be an important
part of the forthcoming regulatory settlement.
Treasury management
Group financing, including debt, interest costs and foreign
exchange, is substantially directed by a central treasury team
reporting to the Group Finance Director. Treasury policy continues
to be focused on the efficient and effective management of cash
and financial resources within the group. The group treasury
function actively seeks opportunities to:
• secure funds and invest temporary surplus cash to best
advantage at minimal risk
• actively protect the group’s foreign exchange and interest rate
exposures
• maintain an excellent reputation with providers of finance and
rating agencies
• improve cash management techniques and systems throughout
the group.
AWG’s board, through the treasury advisory group, regularly
reviews treasury policy, organisation and reporting to ensure
continued effectiveness and relevance.
Liquidity
The group’s objective is to maintain flexibility, diversification and
continuity of funding through access to different markets and
debt instruments. At the year-end the group held cash, deposits
and current asset investments of £755.4 million (2003: £414.2
million) and had undrawn committed multi-currency facilities 
of £654.0 million (2003: £633.0 million). These resources are
maintained to ensure liquidity and the continuation of the
investment programme of the group. The maturity profile of the
group’s borrowings is set out in note 20 on pages 59 to 62.
Anglian Water manages the infrastructure it owns and 
provides services directly to customers. By contrast, the IMB
provides services to clients that own, or wish to own, assets 
or infrastructures. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9
Borrowing covenants
With the exception of asset-based funding in Anglian Water, all
group borrowings are raised or guaranteed by AWG Plc, AWG
Group Limited and, in certain instances, its subsidiary companies.
The group treasury function monitors compliance against all
financial obligations and it is group policy to manage its
businesses so as to ensure operation within covenanted
restrictions. 
Interest rates
The group’s policy, as agreed by the board, is to achieve an
optimum mix of funding at indexed, fixed and floating rates of
interest, including the use of interest rate swaps, to manage the
group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At the year-end,
taking into account interest rate swaps, 32.1 per cent (2003: 30.1
per cent) of the group’s borrowings were indexed to inflation,
62.3 per cent (2003: 68.6 per cent) were at fixed rates and 5.6
per cent (2003: 1.3 per cent) were at floating rates. 32.4 per cent
(2003: 28.3 per cent) of the Anglian Water Services group’s gross
borrowings at 31 March 2004 were indexed to inflation, with a
further 62.6 per cent (2003: 71.5 per cent) at fixed rates and 
5.0 per cent (2003: 0.2 per cent) at floating rates. 
Foreign currency
The group has currency exposures resulting from overseas
investments and foreign currency purchases and sales. The group
uses a range of instruments to hedge such exposures. All hedges
are undertaken for commercial reasons with the objective of
minimising the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on net assets
and profits. 
The group’s foreign exchange exposure management policy, as
agreed by the board, is to hedge material transactional exposures
against the reporting currency by means of forward foreign
exchange contracts. 
Net assets are held in a number of currencies and translated 
at prevailing year-end exchange rates. The resulting exposures 
are monitored and, at certain thresholds, are hedged by currency
borrowings, cross-currency swaps, options or forward exchange
contracts. 
Off balance sheet financing
In accordance with current accounting standards, assets and
liabilities within certain joint venture investments in the
Government Services and Property divisions are not included on
the group’s balance sheet. This is because the joint ventures are
accounted for on an equity basis and are not consolidated.
AWG Project Investments, part of the Government Services
division, has an equity investment in nine projects, seven of which
are joint ventures and two are trade investments. The group’s
share of the debt within its joint venture companies is £114.7
million at 31 March 2004. 
AWG Property’s (formerly Development and Commercial Services)
share of the debt within its joint venture companies at 31 March
2004 is £125.9 million. 
The group has guaranteed obligations of joint ventures and
associates totalling £54.7 million (2003: £84.6 million).
International Financial Reporting Standards
An ‘International Accounting Standards Regulation’ was adopted
by the Council of the European Union (EU) in June 2002. 
This regulation requires all EU companies listed on an EU stock
exchange to use endorsed International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB) to prepare their consolidated financial
statements. The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the year
ending 31 March 2006 and hence to the group’s interim financial
statements for the half-year ending 30 September 2005. 
A project team is in place to co-ordinate the transition to IFRS 
and since 2003 has been following a three-phase transition plan:
Preliminary assessment
Completed by the end of 2003, this stage involved identifying UK
accounting differences to date and ranking the potential impact
of each IFRS. 
Detailed impact study
This phase began in mid-2003 and is currently ongoing as new
standards and amendments to existing standards are issued. The
group is intending to complete its analysis of IFRS during 2004/05
and will continue to monitor developments at the IASB. 
River water quality in Anglian Water’s region
remains the best it has been since records began.
Anglian Water’s draft business plan for 2005 to
2010 would see nutrient removal at as many as
85 treatment works, to further improve habitats
such as the Broads and the Wash. Operating and financial review continued
10 AWG Plc
Implementation process
Due to begin by mid-2004, the implementation will include 
the running of a separate IFRS financial reporting consolidation
system, followed by a conversion to IFRS financial reporting
systems throughout the group from 1 April 2005.
It is a complex task to assess the differences between current
accounting policies and IFRS, particularly given that many of the
IFRS have only recently been revised. The adoption of IFRS will
have an impact on the group’s results and its financial position;
however, it is too early to quantify the impact accurately. 
The key areas of difference between current UK accounting
practices and IFRS which affect AWG, are set out below:
• Fixed asset accounting
• Derivative instruments and hedging activities 
• Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
• Deferred taxation
• Goodwill amortisation.
Operational Review
Group operational results
Anglian Water
Anglian Water’s turnover increased 5.5 per cent in the period to
£766.6 million (2003: £726.8 million), while operating profit after
exceptional items was up 18.4 per cent to £318.9 million (2003:
£269.4 million).
The additional revenue arose principally from the regulatory
pricing formula of Retail Price Index + K
1
, together with £8.0
million extra turnover generated in the first half as a result of
additional demand from metered customers during the
exceptionally dry summer. Despite the extreme conditions and the
region’s low rainfall, Anglian Water’s resources remained
satisfactory throughout the period and have recharged to normal
levels during the wet winter months. 
1
Ofwat defines K as the amount by which a company can increase, or must
decrease, its average charge above or below inflation each year to finance its
services and meet its legal obligations. When inflation is included, this is
commonly referred to as the ‘price limit’.
2
Ofwat’s Security of supply, leakage and the efficient use of water 
2002-2003 report
The summer demonstrated the benefit of a customer base where
more than half the domestic customers are metered. At a local
level however, it also highlighted ‘hot spot’ growth areas where
further investment is required in the supply network over the next
five years. These issues are being addressed with Ofwat, the
industry regulator, as part of the price review process.
Operating expenditure (excluding depreciation) for the full year
was £291.7 million (2003: £282.5 million before exceptional
charges of £18.6 million), £10.0 million above the regulatory
determination, reflecting £4.7 million of redundancy costs and
additional costs on sludge. Capital expenditure for the full year
continued to show outperformance against the determination 
at £276.9 million (2003: £263.3 million).
Service quality
Anglian Water continued to perform well against service and
water quality standards. Drinking water quality remained high,
with 99.7 per cent of all water quality tests performed in the
2003 calendar year complying with the regulatory standards
(2002: 99.6 per cent). Overall microbiological compliance for 
the period is at its highest-ever level.
In addition to delivering a quality product, Anglian Water has
further improved the quality of its service delivery. The number of
properties experiencing low water pressure has been reduced, as
have interruptions to supply. Anglian Water has also reduced the
proportion of customers experiencing sewage flooding. Serious
pollution incidents have been reduced and sewage treatment
compliance with Ofwat’s key criteria improved.
All 46 designated bathing waters in Anglian Water’s region
passed the mandatory coliform standards of the Bathing Water
Directive. This is the fifth time in the past seven years that 100 per
cent compliance has been achieved. In addition, 35 of the
region’s bathing waters (76 per cent) also passed the guideline
standard of the Directive. River water quality in the region remains
the best it has been since records began.
Ofwat’s report shows that Anglian Water has the lowest water
leakage rate in England and Wales
2
. Its leakage of five cubic
metres per kilometre of water pipe per day is less than half the
industry average of 11
2
. Combined with the proportion of our
customers on metered supplies at 54 per cent, the low leakage
rate was a significant factor in preserving water resources while 
a very high level of demand was experienced in the hot summer.
Anglian Water met Ofwat’s leakage target for 2003/04.
Anglian Water’s excellent demand management
record is maintained through continual research
and development.
An Anglian Water engineer installing an automatic
metering device, which Anglian Water developed
as part of a joint venture. The device sends
automatic readings every 15 minutes from
commercial customers’ premises to Anglian
Water’s computer network.  In 2003, 99.7 per cent of the 235,570 regulatory water quality tests
complied with the required standards.
Water quality testing
Staff at Anglian Water’s purpose-built laboratory
in Cambridgeshire perform around two million
tests every year to measure quality at all stages 
of treatment and distribution. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Operating and financial review continued
12 AWG Plc
Regulation 
As part of the regulatory review process, Anglian Water submitted
its final regulatory business plan for the review period 2005 to
2010 to Ofwat in April 2004. The final business plan’s capital
investment programme was significantly reduced from 
the draft submission in August 2003. 
In preparing the plan, the company confronted the hard choices
that needed to be made between investment, service and quality
improvements and the impact that these have on prices.
The plan proposes a capital investment programme of £1.8 billion
over the five-year period, which would result in lower bill
increases for Anglian Water customers than for any other water
and wastewater company in England and Wales. 
If accepted, this plan would see the average customer bill rise by
£47 over the five years (at 2002/03 prices), or an average of 3.3
per cent each year. The average K factor over the period would 
be 4.6 per cent. Recognising the concerns of customers, Anglian
Water has evened out price increases across the new asset
management period. 
Ofwat plans to publish its draft determination in August. This will
be followed by a further period of consultation before a final
determination in December 2004.
Infrastructure Management Business (IMB)
The IMB’s results in the former divisional structure, that is Utility
Services, Government Services (incorporating PFI) and
Construction Services are reported above. 
AWG Property (formerly Developments and Commercial Services),
the group’s property division, has been separated from the IMB 
in order to improve the financial transparency of the IMB’s core
operating divisions and is reported separately.
The IMB now comprises Support Services (Utility Services 
and Government Services), Construction Services and Project
Investments.
Turnover for the IMB was £885.7 million (2003: £790.3 million),
an increase of £95.4 million. The primary reason for this was the
£99.9 million increase in Government Services to £219.8 million
(2003: £119.9 million), principally due to the acquisition of
facilities services contracts in Birmingham and London.
Operating profit for the IMB as a whole, excluding bid costs,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, reduced to £26.5
million (2003: £29.7 million). The profit before interest was £0.3
million (2003: £2.8 million).
Utility Services’ operating profit excluding bid costs, exceptional
items and goodwill was £9.6 million (2003: £11.5 million). Profit
before interest was £5.7 million (2003: £6.8 million). The year-on-
year reduction was as a result of margin pressure highlighted in
the first half. This pressure was somewhat alleviated in the second
half. Utility Services’ excellent client list and client retention rate
give it a good platform from which to improve its performance 
in 2005.
Government Services’ operating profit excluding bid costs,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by 35.9
per cent to £17.8 million, due to the acquisition of facilities
services contracts in Birmingham and London, organic growth
and the development gain of £4.3 million from the sale of the 
Tay wastewater PFI project. Profit before interest was £9.4 million
(2003: £1.5 million).
The IMB includes a project investments business that holds
interests in seven joint ventures and two trade investments with an
aggregate book value of £15.2 million. The group’s contribution
to these projects varies, but often includes responsibility for the
construction and operational phases. The group tends not to hold
PFI investments for the long term if it only retains responsibility for
the construction phase and therefore takes development gains
shortly after the construction phase is completed.
Construction Services’ operating loss excluding bid costs,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was £0.9 million
(2003: £5.1 million profit). The loss before interest was £14.8
million (2003: £5.5 million). The year-on-year reduction was due
to an adverse adjudication on the Rockingham speedway contract
highlighted in the first half and the reassessment of costs to
complete on a number of large contracts. Over 80 per cent of
Construction Services’ work has been booked for next year.
Bid costs for the IMB increased in the period to £10.6 million
(2003: £8.9 million). The increase was principally in the
Construction Services division and reflected the bidding activity 
for utility framework contracts and costs on construction projects
of a scale that are unlikely to be undertaken in the future.
IMB performance
2004 Utility Government Construction Total 
Services Services Services IMB
Turnover 280.1 219.8 385.8 885.7
Operating profit (pre bid costs)* 9.6 17.8 (0.9) 26.5
Bid costs (1.4) (3.0) (6.2) (10.6)
Operating profit/(loss) (post bid costs)* 8.2 14.8 (7.1) 15.9
Exceptional items - (0.9) (2.5) (3.4)
Goodwill amortisation (2.5) (4.5) (5.2) (12.2)
Profit/(loss) before interest 5.7 9.4 (14.8) 0.3
* Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
2003 Utility Government Construction Total
Services Services Services IMB
Turnover 278.6 119.9 391.8 790.3
Operating profit (pre bid costs)* 11.5 13.1 5.1 29.7
Bid costs (1.3) (3.1) (4.5) (8.9)
Operating profit (post bid costs)* 10.2 10.0 0.6 20.8
Exceptional items (0.9) (5.5) (0.9) (7.3)
Goodwill amortisation (2.5) (3.0) (5.2) (10.7)
Profit/(loss) before interest 6.8 1.5 (5.5) 2.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
IMB order book
The IMB order book at 31 March 2004 was £1.77 billion. 
The comparative amount at 31 March 2003 was £1.86 billion
(excluding the Tay wastewater PFI of £180.0 million). 
The breakdown was:
£m
Utility Services 337
Government Services (incl. £335 million for PFI) 931
Construction Services 504
Total 1,772
The annual breakdown is as follows:
£m
2004/05 662
2005/06 311
2006/07 143
2007 and beyond 656
The order book is defined as signed orders from customers, less
any turnover taken on those contracts. It also includes an estimate
of the fair value of work due to be completed under framework
contracts.
Optional extensions to framework contracts are excluded until the
client confirms them in writing. With regard to PFI concessions,
the order book recorded is the group share of future concession
income for the remaining life of the concession. All intra-group
orders are eliminated upon consolidation.
AWG Property (formerly Developments and 
Commercial Services) 
Turnover in Developments and Commercial Services fell to £143.9
million (2003: £181.2 million). Operating profit before exceptional
items increased to £4.8 million (2003: £2.1 million) during the
year. This was primarily as a result of the sales of Great Northern
Warehouse and Ocean Point office development. The sales of
property in the year contributed £94.5 million to cash. After
exceptional items of £10.0 million, the loss before interest was
£5.2 million (2003: £0.6 million profit).
Net operating assets reduced to £88.8 million from £159.9 million
at the previous year-end, which reflects the harvesting strategy and
the write-down of certain properties to expected net realisable
value.
The review of Developments and Commercial Services now
underway is expected to be completed in the first half of this year.
Other
During the year the Powermarque vehicle leasing business was sold,
resulting in a net cash inflow of £13.6 million, and the closure of
the rail business was announced. The exceptional loss arising from
these was £9.8 million. 
International
During the year the group moved further towards a UK focus, 
with the sale and closure of most of its international businesses.
The realisation of cash from the sale of AWG’s international
interests is now substantially complete. The process has generated
£103.0 million in cash and has incurred exceptional charges of
£118.5 million. Of this amount, £88.3 million relates to the sale of
the businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic and Sweden. Up to the
date of the disposals, the businesses in Chile, the Czech Republic
and Sweden contributed £17.0 million of operating profit. 
The following table sets out the results of the international business: 
2004 2003
£m £m
Turnover 117.9 209.5
Operating profit before exceptional 
items and goodwill amortisation 14.0 26.2
Exceptional asset impairments (7.7) (7.0)
Loss on disposal/closures of:
- Continuing businesses (22.5) (1.5)
- Discontinued businesses (88.3) -
Goodwill amortisation (1.3) (3.1)
(Loss)/profit before interest (105.8) 14.6
Of the £14.0 million operating profit before exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation, £11.8 million arose in the first half of the
year reflecting the contributions from the Czech and Chilean
businesses prior to their disposal.
Partnership with clients is central to AWG’s
approach. Working alongside clients’ teams
enables greater understanding of all aspects
of service delivery and provides a basis for
achieving continual improvement.
This approach is demonstrated in the Derby
City Council highway maintenance contract
that commenced in August 2003. AWG is expanding its presence across the UK by serving additional 
clients from a number of regional operational centres.
The CityCare joint venture* requires a wide
variety of skills. Here a craftsman restores
a decorative Norwich park gate.
Other primary operational centres include
North Lanarkshire, London and Birmingham.
*CityCare is a joint venture between AWG Facilities Services 
and Cleanaway in partnership with Norwich City Council.
Local Authority outsourcing
14 AWG Plc Operating and financial review continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 15
The transactions in the Czech Republic and Chile all received
competition approval and were completed in the second half. 
The group has a limited number of remaining projects or
contracts that are expected to complete or close over the next
two years. These include projects in Thailand, New Zealand,
Argentina and three projects in China.
Business dynamics
Competitive environment
Water and wastewater
Anglian Water supplies water and wastewater services in the east
of England. Some customers receive both services while others
will receive water or wastewater services only. This is because
those services are provided by other water only or water and
wastewater companies. 
Depending upon their location and consumption levels, some
larger commercial customers can be supplied under competitive
arrangements by other water companies. In the water sector it 
is the industry regulator Ofwat, rather than market forces, that
determines price and service delivery levels. 
Infrastructure management
The IMB operates in a highly competitive environment, 
the intensity of which varies from market to market. 
The IMB faces competition both from companies that offer 
a similar range of services and from those that specialise in
particular disciplines. Where skills gaps exist, or particular
strengths are required for a particular bid, competitors can 
also be partners.
Some markets, such as service provision, tend to be highly
competitive and sensitive to price. In other markets, such as
Private Finance Initiatives (PFI), competition tends to be limited
due to the technical and financial barriers to entry. PFIs are 
a good example of contracts that employ a range of AWG’s
infrastructure skills, from managing the concession to
construction and facilities management. AWG’s construction
business operates in three parts of the infrastructure market -
building, regional civils work and framework contracts for private
sector clients - for example the water utilities.
Regulatory environment
Legislative changes
Anglian Water operates within a highly regulated environment.
Various regulators, as well as UK and European legislation, govern
its operations. The principal regulator, Ofwat, sets price limits
every five years. The review currently underway will set prices for
2005 to 2010.
Other Government bodies - the Environment Agency, 
English Nature and the Drinking Water Inspectorate - monitor
environmental impacts and the standard of drinking water quality.
Anglian Water works closely with regulatory and consumer-
interest bodies to balance optimum operational performance with
regulatory compliance.
Legislative changes and changes in Government policy can affect
the IMB in different ways. Public Private Partnerships (PPP) and
PFIs have been two of the ways in which the current Government
has sought to deliver improvements to public sector schools,
hospitals and roads. 
The IMB’s Facilities Services business has been closely involved
with PPPs since its inception and continues to bid for new
contracts. Facilities Services now provides the outsourced facilities
services of a number of local authorities. 
When staff are transferred from the public to the private sector,
their existing terms and conditions, including pensions, are
covered by TUPE (Transfer of Undertakings Protection of
Employment) Regulations. The terms on which staff are
transferred and the financial implications of TUPE Regulations 
are carefully considered by AWG during contract negotiations.
In 2003 the Government announced that 200,000 new homes
are to be built in southern England to tackle housing shortages.
For the IMB, such schemes and other urban regeneration
initiatives can represent opportunities for its skills in land
remediation, construction or utility contracting work. 
Bayer Crop Science – Civils and maintenance
Bovis Lend Lease consortium – Highways work
and roads connection for shopping centre
Health centre – refurbishment of doctors’ clinic
Boston - Mayflower Housing Association
Housing repair
Cambridge - County Council
Mainly gas repairs
Great Yarmouth - Borough Council
Housing repair
4
2
3
1
Norwich City Council outsourced many of its
maintenance services to CityCare, an AWG 
joint venture. AWG has since won three more
contracts as a direct result.
Norwich – CityCare
Norwich – City Council
Housing repair, highways,
grounds maintenance and refuse collection
Norwich – Private sector
Britvic – refurbishment of warehousing
2
3
4
1
Serving new clients from an existing regional base Operating and financial review continued
16 AWG Plc
Macro-economic environment 
The economy continued to meet the Government’s growth
targets in 2003/4, despite the global recession, faring better than
many countries in Europe and elsewhere. Globally, economic
growth now appears to be improving. The United States’ GDP
growth strengthened in the first quarter of 2004, which is
expected to have a beneficial effect on the UK and potentially 
the markets in which AWG operates.
In the private sector, upgrades to water and electricity networks,
either in response to customers, quality or environmental
directives, are expected to continue. In the case of the electricity
industry, this may be a direct response to recent network failures
in the UK. This planned increased expenditure may benefit Utility
Services, which operates in the water, gas, electricity and
telecommunications markets.
Risk – Anglian Water
Drinking Water Quality
Every day, Anglian Water’s 4.7 million drinking water customers
use more than 1,200 million litres of water, treated at 142 water
treatment works and supplied through 36,800 kilometres of
water mains. It is Anglian Water’s responsibility to ensure that the
water it supplies consistently meets the requirements of the Water
Supply (Water Quality) Regulations 2000 enforced by the Drinking
Water Inspectorate (DWI).
Overall in 2003, 99.7 per cent of the 235,570 regulatory tests
complied with the Government’s standards. Anglian Water
achieved this through a comprehensive monitoring programme
that is in place to assess water quality throughout each of the
treatment and supply stages. Continuous monitoring at treatment
works and other key sites is complemented by extensive
laboratory sampling and analysis. The company has a purpose-
built regional laboratory in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, and a
satellite laboratory located at Lincoln which provides additional
microbiological analysis.
The company has translated all regulatory requirements and
internal standards into detailed policies, standards and
methodologies for water supply hygiene. This ensures the quality
of water supply remains the highest priority by defining targets
and processes in order to maintain the wholesomeness of supply
and provide the basis for hygienic practices in all the company
does. All aspects of water supply are covered, from abstraction at
the source through to delivery of drinking water to the customer.
This includes well-rehearsed practise for implementing
contingencies to mitigate any impact should there be any
deterioration in the quality of water supply. In the financial year
Anglian Water was prosecuted by the DWI for supplying water
unfit for human consumption. The prosecution resulted from a
discolouration and taste event in April 2002 that occurred during
routine mains flushing work.
Demands on water supplies
Anglian Water operates in one of the driest regions in the country,
serving a highly dispersed, but rapidly growing, customer base. 
Its water is supplied through a combination of reservoirs,
boreholes, aquifers and rivers.
The company ensures that water resources keep pace with
demand in a number of ways: by minimising network leakage,
encouraging use of domestic water meters, and educating
customers in ways to be water efficient.
The environment
Anglian Water treats approximately 1,800 million litres of
wastewater each day. After a process of filtration and purification
at one of the 1,076 treatment plants, the water is returned to the
region’s watercourses and the sea. 
One of the results of the £4 billion investment in the region since
privatisation in 1989, is the quality of the water returned to the
environment is of consistently high quality. River water quality is
currently the best it has been since records began, and all 46 of
the region’s bathing waters have passed the mandatory coliform
standards of the EU Bathing Water Directive.
Given the scale of Anglian Water’s operation, there can be
instances where the quality of the water it returns to the
environment falls below the required standard. Regrettably, 
a prosecution by the Environment Agency was upheld during 
the year. This was due to a pumping station failure. 
The company works hard to protect and enhance the
environment and regrets any such incident and is working hard 
to avoid any further occurrences. 
AWG’s expertise in utility contracting is
demonstrated during an overhead electrical 
line refurbishment project for United Utilities. 
Four overhead line teams climbed more
than 350 poles on the 34-kilometre stretch
near Barrow–in-Furness, Cumbria.  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17
Raw materials 
Anglian Water’s business is founded on the management of 
an essential raw material - water. The east of England region 
is one of the driest in the country, with a geographically
dispersed, but rapidly growing, population. It therefore requires
sustainable water management to ensure consistent supplies 
of high-quality water.
This supply can be affected by a significant increase or decrease 
in the rainfall patterns in the region. The summer of 2003 was
particularly dry, which increased the pressure on water supplies.
Despite the additional demand, water resources remained
satisfactory throughout the year and quickly recharged to 
normal levels. 
This was a result of a successful twin-track approach to demand
management: the widespread use of metering and control of
leakage. 54 per cent of Anglian Water’s customer base is metered.
Around 50,000 new meters are installed each year, both at
customers’ request, and as standard in new houses. Leakage has
been significantly reduced since privatisation in 1989 to its current
level of five cubic metres per kilometre of water pipe per day. 
During the past five years Anglian Water has also had to manage
and protect its assets and those of customers from flooding
caused by exceptionally heavy rainfall. The company has been
working with other parties, including the Environment Agency
and local authorities, to see how this multi-organisational
problem can be best managed in the future.
Whatever the rainfall pattern, however, Anglian Water consistently
promotes water efficiency to its customers.
Biosolids
Another key issue facing Anglian Water is the management of
sludge, a by-product of the wastewater treatment process. As
wastewater treatment standards have tightened and regulations
have become more stringent, so the amount of sludge requiring
management has increased. 
Treated sludge, known as biosolids, is now predominantly recycled
to agricultural land, with significant environmental benefits. It is
important, therefore, that the company and the UK water industry
as a whole works to justify and retain the trust of farmers and
consumers.
Anglian Water is already working to the spirit of the draft sludge
regulations that are due to take effect in 2005, and has put
additional control and monitoring processes in place, such as
hazard analysis and critical control points. Its biosolids recycling
operations are also accredited to BS EN ISO 9001:2000 and BS EN
ISO 14001:1996 quality and environmental standards respectively.
Risk – Infrastructure Management Business
Contract management
Both Utility Services and Government Services provide contracting
services, to the utility and public sectors respectively. The private
sector, and increasingly the public sector, recognise the potential
value of outsourcing parts of their operations. It is common
practice for the employees who previously undertook the work 
to transfer with the contract. 
These markets represent an opportunity for AWG’s IMB. However,
outsourcing also involves the recognition and management of
risk. Risk is contained in the requirements of the client and any
penalties for not meeting agreed service levels. It is also contained
in the costs associated with the transfer of staff. AWG works
closely with partners to understand fully all risk-related issues
before accepting work. 
New local authority outsourcing opportunities have risks of 
a similar nature, particularly in providing appropriate employee
terms. Also, the creation of additional value to support
outsourcing arrangements presents varied risks, which AWG 
is experienced in managing in other contexts, such as facilities
management and PPP/PFI work.
Construction
Long-term success in the construction sector requires the manage-
ment of a number of inherent risks. The primary risk is financial:
construction projects are often medium- to long-term, high
turnover activities commanding relatively low margins. Changes 
to project specification, deadlines and budget, whether caused 
by clients, revisions by AWG, or external factors such as economic
climate or weather, can impact on a project’s profitability.
AWG balances these risks across a portfolio of three different
aspects of construction activity – selected building projects,
regional civils work and framework services for utility and 
other clients.
Leakage has been significantly reduced since privatisation 
in 1989 to its current level of five cubic metres per kilometre 
of water pipe per day. Anglian Water is investing in technologies that deliver energy efficiency 
and help to reduce emissions that contribute to climate change.
Alongside investment in wind turbines, 
the company has a programme to install up 
to 12 combined heat and power units fuelled 
by bio-gas (gas produced from wastewater
treatment) over the next three years. The first
four of these units are already in place at
Lowestoft, Northampton, Norwich and 
Dunstable (pictured).  
18 AWG Plc
Renewable energy Operating and financial review continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19
Sustainable development
1
Business context
Sustainable development has a significant influence on the
context in which AWG does business. 
It has helped shape the regulatory environment for Anglian Water
since at least the early 1990s. In April 2006 the regulator Ofwat
will become subject to a statutory requirement to carry out 
its duties in a manner best calculated to contribute to the
achievement of sustainable development. However, Ofwat 
already operates to the spirit of the requirement.
Public infrastructure is an important aspect of sustainable
development, contributing to the quality of life. Many
Infrastructure Management Business clients have obligations
relating to sustainable development. 
AWG has therefore made sustainable development central to the
way it operates. This helps manage risks and adapt to regulatory
change more effectively, reduce costs and add value to the
services offered. 
Principles and policies
AWG defines its contribution to sustainable development as:
Working in a way that improves the quality of peoples’ lives,
respects the natural environment and contributes to prosperity.
AWG has 10 Principles of Sustainable Development (see right
and over) with indicative standards and targets for each.
AWG Principles of Sustainable Development
Principle 1: Compliance
We will ensure that all our activities meet relevant regulation and
legislation at an international, national and local level. Where no
regulations exist, we will endeavour to set our own appropriate
standards.
Principle 2: Products and services
We will ensure that environmental, social, economic, health and
safety impacts associated with assets, products, processes and
services are assessed and addressed over their full life cycle.
Principle 3: Corporate engagement
We will communicate key sustainability issues and seek
sustainable innovative solutions and alternatives; we will talk to,
and forge relationships with, all those who have an interest in our
business, including employees, shareholders, investors, customers,
appropriate authorities, local communities, suppliers and other
organisations.
Principle 4: Contractors, suppliers and joint ventures
We will work with, learn from and educate clients, consultants,
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors through partnerships
designed to develop sustainable activities and best practice.
Principle 5: Employees
We will respect all employees and encourage their development
and training, and ensure they act with integrity, honesty and
fairness in all aspects of our operation. We will encourage all our
employees to balance their work and home life. We will
encourage all employees to develop relationships that allow them
to play an active part in making AWG a sustainable organisation.
Principle 6: Community openness and transparency
We will contribute to and promote the wellbeing of communities
by behaving in a socially responsible manner, by maximising
sustainable benefits and opportunities available to our host
communities and by acting with a local face.
Volunteers from AWG Construction Services 
took part in the Community Service Volunteers
Make A Difference Day, helping to refurbish the
school play area and create a new sensory garden
for children with special needs at the Sketchley
School, Burbage, Leicestershire. 
1
This section is a summary of AWG’s 2003/04 sustainable development performance for the reporting year 2003/04. A full account of that 
performance is published on the website: www.awg.com. Enviros Consulting Limited has verified the full Sustainable Development reporting 
system and confirms that the information contained in this section is both materially accurate and a balanced summary of the full account. Operating and financial review continued
20 AWG Plc
incident noted on page 16; one was brought under drinking
water legislation also noted on page 16 and the other under
health and safety legislation.
Stakeholders, public policy and sustainable development
Stakeholders’ views help shape AWG’s contribution to sustainable
development. 
In January 2004 AWG canvassed stakeholders’ views on
sustainable development and AWG. The majority said that
sustainable development would become more important for the
group over the next five years; none said that it would become
less so. 
Much of AWG’s business is driven by UK public policy and its
focus on sustainable development. The company engages with
suitable organisations, think-tanks, policy-makers and regulators
that shape such policy and is adopting best practice governing
the transparency of companies’ influence on public policy. 
Investing in the community; developing employees 
The company’s approach to community investment is based
predominantly on practical involvement of employees in
community activities, give me five.
give me five
AWG’s give me five scheme allows employees to take up to 30
hours of work time a year, matched by their own time, to get
involved in community activities. The scheme is intended to assist
personal development by linking the skills and experience derived
through volunteering with the employee’s annual appraisal and
personal development plan. 
Participation in give me five has continued to grow. More than
600 employees have made much-appreciated contributions to the
community and fulfiled personal skill development objectives.
Around 100 employees took part in the Community Service
Volunteers Make a Difference Day in October. 
Direct financial support is also given in certain well-defined areas.
Through give me five and donations, AWG continues to meet
Business in the Community’s Per Cent standard
1
. 
The company’s strategy helps to combat climate change 
and also to reduce exposure to energy price changes.
Principle 7: Environment and resource use
We will demonstrate that the development and provision of
products and services has no undue environmental impact, that
they are safe in their intended use, are efficient in their
consumption of energy and natural resources and can be 
re-used, recycled or disposed of in a safe manner.
Principle 8: Sustainable profits
We will promote economic stability and create an efficient and
equitable organisation. We will ensure that profits for the
organisation are derived in a sustainable manner – increasing
financial, social and natural capital. Through this leadership we
will deliver shareholder value and ensure that the organisation is
an attractive long-term asset to a diverse global investment
community.
Principle 9: Reporting
We will set out clear governance that reviews and measures
performance. In this process we will make assessment of
compliance with legal requirements, company requirements 
and these 10 principles. We report progress to the board-level
Sustainable Development Committee, to all our stakeholders, 
at least annually, and to the public.
Principle 10: Continuous improvement
We will develop a framework for continual improvement by
conducting regular audits, to assure progress and management
commitment. We will take into account the latest technical
development, scientific understanding, customer and client 
needs and community expectations. We will ensure that all 
group policies are reviewed regularly to reflect the principles 
of the strategy for sustainable development.
Overall performance - highlights
The key objective for 2003/04 was to improve adherence to the
internal, indicative standards that define each Principle. This
objective has been achieved. The Indicative Standards are now
met or largely met in every part of the group. 
Overall, there were three prosecutions upheld during the year
compared with 13 in 2002/03. One was for the environmental 
1 
The standard for companies contributing at least one per cent of pre-tax profits in cash donations, staff and management time and gifts in kind. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 21
Environmental performance 
Energy use is measured group-wide. About three-quarters of the
group’s carbon dioxide emissions are attributable to operational
energy consumption in Anglian Water; the balance arises from
transport, energy use at the IMB’s permanent sites and offices,
and from the group’s remaining international water and
wastewater contracts.
Anglian Water derives 11 per cent of its energy from renewable
sources and is on target to deliver, by 2010, its planned five per
cent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions compared with 1990.
The company’s energy strategy helps to combat climate change
and also to reduce exposure to energy price changes. 
IMB clients are increasingly interested in energy issues; energy
management services are now part of the package provided in
social housing contracts. 
Utility Services and Anglian Water have sustained last year’s
achievements in respectively reducing their use of virgin aggregate
and reducing the proportion of waste going to landfill. Such
achievements help to offset rising waste disposal costs. 
Environmental management systems conforming to ISO14001 are
in place covering approximately 40 per cent (by turnover) of the
group’s operations. 
Future plans and further information
Each business is now working to a sustainable development
action plan for 2004/05. Longer-term plans are being established
for 2005 onwards. More information, including a full,
independently verified account of sustainable development
performance, is available on the AWG website – www.awg.com. 
Investment for the future
Safety
The health and safety of AWG’s employees is paramount and the
company strives to achieve an incident- and injury-free
environment wherever it operates.
AWG’s health and safety performance has continued to improve
during the year, with no fatal injuries being sustained. The
company is committed to the target set by the Government in
2000 of reducing fatal and major injuries by a minimum of 10 per
cent per annum and reducing work-related ill health by 50 per
cent by 2009/10. 
AWG’s overall accident frequency rate (AFR) for the year was 
0.40 against its target of 0.45. Divisional AFRs ranged from 0.46
by Anglian Water against a target of 0.36, to 0.31 achieved by
Construction Services against a target of 0.36.
Utility Services has again been nominated for a major construction
industry safety culture award. Construction Services’ AFR is
currently among the best of the Major Contractor Group, an
organisation that represents the top construction companies in
the UK. The IMB endeavours to transfer skills and best practices
from its ‘Safety-case driven’ environments in Utility Services to
improve safety results in local authority work.
The introduction of annual statements of intent, which are
designed to focus on key success factors in health and safety,
have ensured a continuing improvement in AWG’s ownership and
management of health and safety issues. 
Skills
AWG is addressing skills shortages by investing in ways to
develop, broaden and safeguard its skills base. 
Utility Services is again running two schemes in conjunction with
its client, National Grid Transco, to provide employment
opportunities for young offenders and people currently on the
unemployment register. 
Construction Services’ success depends on attracting and
developing a first-class skills base and has set up its own NVQ-
accredited training centre, which tailors courses to staff rather
than adapting existing services from external suppliers. It also 
runs an apprentice scheme. 
Government Services has developed learning centres in its
established businesses to raise the skill levels of employees
transferred in to the business from local authorities. 
Outlook
The principal focus for the current year is the regulatory review,
which will be completed in December 2004. The group’s
immediate objective is to continue to seek a satisfactory
determination and prepare the group to meet the challenge.
AWG will continue to strengthen its management team and
improve the operating performance in the IMB.
One of the initiatives introduced by AWG in 
2003 was the use of Envirokerb, a composite
kerb drain made from recycled materials.
Envirokerb was used for the first time on public
roads as part of highway improvement schemes
for Broxtowe Borough Council in May 2003. Board of Directors
22 AWG Plc
1
234
789
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23
5 Andrew Carr-Locke (50) Non-Executive Director
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed a Non-Executive Director of
AWG in October 2003. He has been Group Finance Director 
of George Wimpey Plc since 2001 and was previously Finance
Director of Courtaulds Textiles Plc from 1999 to 2000 and has
held financial and management positions with Eastman-Kodak,
Scott Paper and Diageo between 1974 and 1998. He is a
member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
6 Bill Cockburn CBE TD (61) Deputy Chairman
Bill Cockburn was appointed a Non-Executive Director of AWG 
in January 2003, Deputy Chairman in May 2003 and is the Senior
Independent Director. He was Group Managing Director of BT plc
from 1997 to 2001, Chief Executive of WH Smith plc from 1995
to 1997 and Chief Executive of the Post Office from 1992 to
1995. He is currently Chairman of Parity Group Plc and Deputy
Chairman of Business Post Plc; he was awarded a CBE in 1989
for services to British industry and is Chairman of the School
Teachers Review Body and is a trustee of The Princess Royal Trust
for Carers. 
7 Frances Heaton (59) Non-Executive Director
Frances Heaton was appointed a Non-Executive Director of AWG
in 2002. She was an Executive Director of Lazard from 1987 to
2001, a Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England from
1993 to 2001 and Director-General of the Takeover Panel from
1992 to 1994. She is also a Non-Executive Director of Legal &
General Group Plc. She chairs the Audit Committee.
8 Sue Lyons OBE (51) Non-Executive Director
Sue Lyons was appointed a Non-Executive Director of AWG in
March 2003. Her executive background was principally with
Rolls-Royce, which she joined in 1975 and where she was
Managing Director (defence) Europe from 1998 to 2001. She is 
a Non-Executive Director of National Express Plc and Wagon Plc.
She is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and was
awarded an OBE in 1998 for services to the engineering industry.
She received the European Woman of Achievement Award
(Business Category) in 1999. 
9 Jim McKenna (49) Non-Executive Director
Jim McKenna was appointed a Non-Executive Director of AWG 
in 2000. He is currently UK Chief Executive of LogicaCMG plc
having served on the Logica Plc board since 1993. He is also 
a governor of the University of East London. He chairs the
Remuneration Committee.
1 Peter Hickson (59) Chairman
Peter Hickson was appointed to the AWG board in April 2002
and became Chairman in January 2003. Prior to joining AWG he
was Group Finance Director of Powergen plc from 1996 to 2002,
and Group Finance Director of MAI PLC from 1991 to 1996. He
is a Non-Executive Director of Marconi Corporation plc and a
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and
Wales. He chairs the Nomination Committee.
2 Jonson Cox (47) Group Chief Executive
Jonson Cox was appointed Group Chief Executive of AWG in
January 2004. He was a Director of Kelda Group Plc from 1994
to 2000 when he led the recovery of Yorkshire Water, Kelda’s
principal business. Immediately before joining AWG he was Chief
Executive of business services provider Valpak Limited from 2002
to the end of 2003 and Chief Operating Officer of Railtrack Plc
from 2000 to 2001.
3 Elliott Mannis (42) Group Finance Director
Elliott Mannis was appointed Group Finance Director of AWG 
in July 1998. Prior to joining AWG, he was Group Financial
Controller of Aegis Group plc from 1996 to 1998 and Group
Chief Accountant from 1993 to 1996. He is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of British Columbia (Canada).
4 Roy Pointer (58) Executive Director
Roy Pointer was appointed Executive Director of AWG in 1998
and Chief Executive of Anglian Water Services Limited in May
2003. Since joining Anglian Water in 1988 he has held a number
of posts, including Director of Production from 1994 to 1998
and Director of Engineering from 1992 to 1994. He is a
chartered engineer, a Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers
and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Water and
Environmental Management and has worked in the water
industry since 1974.
Chairman and Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors’ report
24 AWG Plc
The Directors present their report and the audited statements 
of AWG Plc for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The principal activities during the year were water supply and
distribution, wastewater collection and treatment, building and
maintaining infrastructure in the utility, urban regeneration,
social housing, property and highways markets. A summary of
the group’s performance and future prospects is included in the
operating and financial review on pages 7 to 21.
Group results and returns to shareholders
The profit and loss account on page 36 shows the group’s
results and losses for the year. No cash dividends have been paid
during the year. Redeemable shares were issued following the
interim results on the basis of 14.0 pence per share paid up out
of the merger reserve account. A similar issue of redeemable
shares will be made at the rate of 33.2 pence per share,
equivalent to a full year total of 47.2 pence per share.
Additionally, £1.00 for each ordinary share held was returned to
shareholders in June 2003 funded from surplus cash flows from
the group’s operations.
Subsequent events
There have been no material adjusting subsequent events.
Research and development
The group and its subsidiaries have a continuing policy of
undertaking market-focused research and development on
process plant, biosolids treatment and other water and
wastewater-related matters.
Share capital
On 16 June 2003 the company returned £177 million capital 
to shareholders by issuing 1,000 redeemable shares for every
ordinary share held. The ordinary shares were then consolidated
on the basis of 201 new shares for every 250 old shares.
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 30 July 2003, the
company was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary
shares up to a maximum number of 14,267,040 shares. 
Details of AWG Plc’s share capital are shown in note 25 on page
65. Options outstanding under the company’s share option
schemes at 31 March 2004 were as set out below. These include
options granted to Directors as detailed on page 34.
Outstanding options over ordinary shares at 31 March 2004 were:
No. of ordinary shares Date of grant Option price
Sharesave Scheme 25,528 12 December 1996 £4.52
Sharesave Scheme 41,769 10 December 1997 £6.19
Sharesave Scheme 66,886 9 December 1998 £7.12
Sharesave Scheme 513,651 12 January 2000 £4.34
Sharesave Scheme 706,213 31 January 2001 £4.68
Sharesave Scheme 897,837 6 February 2002 £4.20
Sharesave Scheme 3,039,404 31 January 2003 £3.38
Sharesave Scheme 1,108,034 5 February 2004 £4.28
Executive Share Option Scheme 17,999 15 August 1994 £5.375
Executive Share Option Scheme 5,253 10 June 1996 £5.71
Executive Share Option Scheme 9,090 7 November 1996 £5.50
Executive Share Option Scheme 1,485,918 21 December 2001 £5.27
Executive Share Option Scheme 1,536,427 9 July 2002 £5.38
Executive Share Option Scheme 1,702,732 31 July 2003 £5.40
Executive Share Option Scheme 5,703 16 January 2004 £5.26
Phantom Executive Share Option Scheme 222,433 16 January 2004 £5.26
In accordance with UITF Abstract 17 ‘Employee Share Schemes’, the group has taken advantage of the exemption in relation to the
Employee Sharesave Schemes.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable within a period of six months after either the third, fifth or seventh
anniversary of the date of the savings contract. Options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme are exercisable during 
a period commencing on the third anniversary and ending on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Directors 
The current Directors of the company are listed below 
and their biographies are on page 23:
Peter Hickson Andrew Carr-Locke
Jonson Cox Bill Cockburn 
Elliott Mannis Frances Heaton 
Roy Pointer Sue Lyons 
Jim McKenna
All of the Directors served throughout the year except for
Andrew Carr-Locke and Jonson Cox who were appointed on 
2 October 2003 and 15 January 2004 respectively. Other Directors
who served during the year were Jim Cronin, Tony Eckford and
Euan McEwan who resigned on 30 July 2003, 26 September
2003 and 14 April 2004 respectively. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 25
Andrew Carr-Locke and Jonson Cox, having been appointed since
the last AGM, shall retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance
with Article 104 of the company’s Articles of Association and the
Directors shall recommend their reappointment to that meeting
in accordance with Article 127.
Peter Hickson and Frances Heaton shall retire by rotation at the
forthcoming AGM in accordance with Article 121 of the
company’s Articles of Association and, being eligible, shall offer
themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
Elliott Mannis has resigned as a Director with effect from 
30 June 2004.
Directors’ interests
The interests of Directors in the shares of the company and in
options over such shares granted under the company’s Executive
Share Option Scheme and Sharesave Scheme are set out in the
remuneration report on pages 33 and 34.
Substantial shareholders
According to notifications received at 2 June 2004 the following
shareholders held 3.0 per cent or more of the company’s issued
share capital: 
%
Invesco Perpetual 8.89
K Capital Partners L.P. 8.21
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.84
Morley Fund Management Limited 3.18
Policy on the payment of creditors
It is AWG’s policy to provide suppliers of goods and services with
a statement of general conditions of contract. This document is
available from each of the company’s divisions. In general,
regional purchasing agreements are in place with preferred
suppliers and the terms will apply to all transactions. The
company abides by the terms of payment. At 31 March 2004, the
group had 43 days purchases outstanding (2003: 65 days). At 31
March 2004, the company had no trade creditors (2003: nil).
Charitable donations (community investment)
During the year the group made a payment of £1.0 million
(2003: £1.0 million) to the Anglian Water Trust Fund and gave
£180,000 to various community causes. However, it is the
group’s policy that its community investment should be based
predominantly on the practical involvement of employees in
community activities. This involvement is described on page 20.
Employees
Employees are kept informed of changes in the business and
general financial and economic factors influencing the group.
This is done through a systematic approach to employee
communication through regular briefings, presentations,
electronic mailings and the wide circulation of the group
magazine. The group’s intranet is also widely used as a source 
of information. 
The group has introduced an Ethics Policy, which informs all
employees of the group’s approach to a range of ethical issues.
‘Whistle-blowing’ procedures are in place to deal with allegations
of harassment, bullying and other inappropriate behaviour. 
The group continues to invest in the development of its
employees with more than £1.0 million being devoted to skills
and basic management development and leadership. AWG
Construction Services Limited, Purac Limited and AWG Utility
Services have achieved Investors in People status. 
A Sharesave Scheme is in place to encourage participation in the
group’s performance.
The group is an equal opportunities employer and job
applications from disabled persons are fully and fairly considered,
having regard to the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant. In
the event of disability, every effort is made to ensure that
employment continues and appropriate training is given. Career
development and promotion of disabled people, is, as far as
possible, identical to that of other employees.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has indicated its willingness to
continue in office and a resolution proposing its reappointment
will be put to the AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the AGM to be held on 29 July 2004 is
included with this document, together with an explanation of
the business to be conducted at the meeting, and form of proxy.
By order of the board
Patrick Firth
Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel
2 June 2004
Registered Office
Anglian House 
Ambury Road
Huntingdon 
Cambridgeshire 
PE29 3NZ
Registered in England and Wales No. 3936645 Corporate governance
26 AWG Plc
The company believes in high standards of corporate governance
and endorses the principles set out in the Combined Code that
was adopted in 1998. The board confirms that the company has
been in compliance with those provisions throughout the year,
with two exceptions. The roles of Chairman and Group Chief
Executive were temporarily combined following the resignation
of the previous Chief Executive, and that the notice for the 2003
AGM was served according to statutory requirements. 
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which applies
to reporting periods starting on or after 1 November 2003, was
published in July 2003 and has now been incorporated into the
Listing Rules. Changes to the company’s corporate governance
regime, consequent to the new Combined Code, are being
considered, and the report for the year ended 31 March 2005
will be in accordance with the new Combined Code. 
Disclosures in this report are in accordance with the Combined
Code that was adopted in 1998; some additional disclosures,
which will be required by the new Combined Code, have been
included. 
The board
The company is headed by a board currently consisting of nine
Directors with a breadth of business experience. The board meets
regularly and retains responsibility for a schedule of matters
covering strategic, operational, financial and compliance issues. 
It thereby provides leadership to and exercises control over the
company. 
The board met 12 times during the year, of which 10 were
regular meetings and two were required to deal with specific
matters. The regular meetings lasted approximately four hours 
on average. The types of decisions reserved to the board included
approval of financial statements, returns to shareholders,
consideration of significant contracts and appointment of
Directors. Decisions delegated to management included day-to-
day operational matters and contracts for services below £5
million in value.
Attendance at board meetings during the year was as follows:
Number of
Director boards attended Total eligible boards 
Peter Hickson (Chairman) 12 12
Jonson Cox 4 4
Elliott Mannis 12 12
Euan McEwan 12 12
Roy Pointer 12 12
Andrew Carr-Locke 6 7
Bill Cockburn 11 12
Frances Heaton 12 12
Sue Lyons 11 12
Jim McKenna 9 12
Jim Cronin 5 5
Tony Eckford 5 5
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate. However,
between March 2003 and the appointment of Jonson Cox as
Group Chief Executive in January 2004, Peter Hickson acted as
Chief Executive as well as Chairman. 
The Chairman had no other significant commitments during 
the year.
The nine current Directors are comprised of the Chairman, three
Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The board has considered the independence of the Non-
Executive Directors using the criteria set out in provision A.3.1 of
the new Combined Code and has concluded that all of the Non-
Executive Directors are independent and free from any business
or other relationship, which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement.
The board has appointed Bill Cockburn, Deputy Chairman, as
Senior Independent Director, through whom shareholders may
raise any concerns which cannot be conveyed to the board
through the Chairman.
All board appointments are subject to full board approval of
candidates recommended by the Nomination Committee. The
members of the Nomination Committee are listed below.
Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings during the year
was as follows:
Number of Total eligible 
Director committees attended committees 
Peter Hickson (Chairman) 5 5
Andrew Carr-Locke 1 2
Bill Cockburn 4 5
Frances Heaton 5 5
Sue Lyons 5 5
Jim McKenna 4 5
Jim Cronin 2 2
The board receives regular reports on those matters reserved to it
which enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the company.
A board effectiveness evaluation was undertaken in December
2003 which examined the board’s structure, functionality,
objectives, meetings, administration and corporate governance.
The results of that evaluation were considered in February 2004
and various actions identified. The board expects to repeat that
evaluation and to expand it to also cover board committees and
individual Directors in 2004/05.
All Directors are subject to re-election at least every three years 
in accordance with Article 121 of the company’s Articles of
Association. Those Directors who are subject to re-election at the
2004 AGM are identified on page 25. 
Directors’ remuneration
The company has adopted the principles set out in the Combined
Code and has complied with those Code provisions during the
year. Details are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages
29 to 34.  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 27
Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings during the
year was as follows:
Number of Total eligible 
Director committees attended committees 
Jim McKenna (Chairman) 4 7
Andrew Carr-Locke 2 2
Bill Cockburn 6 7
Frances Heaton 7 7
Sue Lyons 7 7
Jim Cronin 4 5
Accountability and Audit
Financial reporting
The company’s financial position and prospects are presented 
in a number of ways during the year to ensure a balanced and
understandable assessment can be made by shareholders and
potential shareholders. This includes:
- Annual Report and Accounts, prepared in accordance with
UK GAAP, which includes an operating and financial
review, statements on Directors’ responsibilities and going
concern
- Interim report and accounts
- Pre close period trading statements which have been
introduced from the financial year beginning 1 April 2003. 
- Announcements regarding developments and contract
wins that may affect the share price of the company are
made as necessary
- Reports to Ofwat regarding the regulated water business
which includes the Annual (June) Return, the Procurement
Plan and the Special Agreements Register.
Internal controls
The system of internal controls seeks to manage and minimise
risk. Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable,
and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss. 
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks faced by the group. The board 
is responsible for internal control. Within defined delegated
authorities, management is responsible for risk assessment and
control. Both project-based and business risks (financial and non-
financial, including those of a social, ethical or environmental
nature) are dealt with in this way through the management
structure. This is complemented by control-risk self assessment,
and performance and contract review meetings where
management report directly to an Executive Director. Operating
divisions provide quarterly written confirmation of their
compliance with financial controls. The control-risk self
assessment is completed by the business annually and is used 
to focus risk management within the business and directs
internal audit planning.
The group policies and standards documents provide guidance 
to the operational businesses and functions about delegated
authorities, independent review of transactions, the bidding
process and project delivery.
The underlying controls are similar in Anglian Water, the IMB and
the Property division. The emphasis on aspects of control varies,
for example in Anglian Water there is a higher priority on
regulatory matters but there is an equal weighting in relation 
to health and safety.
The operating businesses have in the year identified their key
business risks and their relative importance in terms of both
financial and non-financial criteria. Material changes in risk and
control profiles are discussed at performance review meetings
and, for major projects, by the Main Investment Group (MIG).
The MIG provided a further independent peer review of projects
at initiation and thereafter through to commitment. This group
had been delegated authority up to specified levels beyond
which board approval was sought.
The Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee, oversees
risk management practice, the control response within the
business and advises the Audit Committee of issues identified 
as required.
The Executive Directors report to the board material changes 
in the business and the market place that affect the business 
risk profile.
Throughout the year an internal audit function has been in place.
Since June 2002 the internal audit role has been enhanced
through outsourcing to Ernst & Young giving access to a wider
range of experienced auditors. The Head of Internal Audit has
direct access to the Audit Committee if and when required.
The internal audit plan, which is approved annually by the Audit
Committee, focuses on the core financial controls and material
risks faced by the business. The audit plan is supplemented by 
ad hoc audits at the request of the board and management.
Internal audit findings are reported to the board and the 
Audit Committee. 
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of
internal controls in the group that have been, and continue 
to be, upgraded and refreshed. The company has been in
compliance with the Turnbull provisions regarding internal
controls throughout the year.
Audit Committee and auditors
The board has an Audit Committee, chaired by Frances Heaton,
which comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets 
at least three times each year. 
The board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to
monitor and review the integrity of the financial statements,
significant financial reporting judgements, internal controls and
risk management. The committee’s duties therefore also includes
consideration of the effectiveness of the group’s internal and
external audit functions and recommends to the board the
external auditor’s remuneration. The committee also considers
the group’s policy on the provision of non-audit services by the
external auditor and the independence of the external auditor. Corporate governance continued
28 AWG Plc
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings during the year was as
follows:
Number of Total eligible 
Director committees attended committees 
Frances Heaton (Chairman) 3 3
Andrew Carr-Locke 2 2
Bill Cockburn 3 3
Sue Lyons 3 3
Jim McKenna 2 3
Jim Cronin 1 1
Relations with shareholders
The company, largely through the Chairman, Group Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of
Communications, maintains a dialogue with institutional
shareholders throughout the year. This includes regular
presentations, meetings, and press briefings to coincide with
particular events, for example the announcement of final and
interim results and discussion of specific matters as and when
they arise.
The AGM is held at a time and location that the Directors believe
to be convenient to private investors. A presentation of the
business results is made and shareholders are invited to ask
questions.
The company maintains a website, www.awg.com, which
contains details about the company.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the group and company have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the accounts.
Patrick Firth
Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel
2 June 2004
Company law requires the Directors to prepare, each financial
year, financial statements that give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the company and the group, and of the loss 
of the group for that period. In preparing those financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the AWG website. Information published on the website is
accessible in many countries with different legal requirements
relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements, which results in uncertainty regarding legal
requirements.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Remuneration report
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29
The Committee
The Remuneration Committee advises the board on the group’s
policy on executive remuneration and determines the
remuneration packages of each of the Executive Directors.
At 31 March 2004 the committee was made up of the following
Directors:
Jim McKenna (Chairman)
Andrew Carr-Locke
Bill Cockburn
Frances Heaton
Sue Lyons
All committee members served throughout the year except
Andrew Carr-Locke who was appointed on 2 October 2003. Jim
Cronin served during the year until he resigned on 30 July 2003.
Peter Hickson and Jonson Cox attend the meetings but do not
participate in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
The committee has access to advice from the Group Human
Resources and Communications Director, Mike Keohane, and 
the Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel, Patrick Firth. 
The committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants as
external advisors. In addition Kepler Associates has assisted in the
development of the proposed new Long-Term Incentive Plan
(LTIP). Neither advisor provides any other service to the company.
A complete review of all aspects of Directors’ remuneration is
carried out annually, taking into account comparable practice in
similar companies and the financial and operational performance
of the group.
Remuneration policy
In formulating remuneration policy, the committee’s objective 
is to ensure that remuneration policies and practices for the
Executive Directors are consistent with those for the wider body
of senior managers across the group. The policy is designed to
attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors whilst
reflecting their levels of responsibility and experience. In addition,
the current policy aims to align the interests of executives with
those of all the company’s stakeholders by ensuring that the
award of annual bonuses reflects a balance between financial
and non-financial measures. Long-term incentives are designed
to reward the achievement of long-term performance targets.
The remuneration policy is designed to ensure that there is a
significant emphasis on the performance-linked element. To this
end, base salaries are targeted at median when compared with
similar companies in the utilities and support services sectors.
Executives and senior managers are able to achieve upper
quartile earnings via the annual bonus scheme and the Executive
Share Option Scheme (ESOS) only if demanding performance
targets are achieved.
To assess competitive practice, the committee currently reviews
the remuneration packages for Directors and senior executives
against three groups of UK companies:
• Water companies
• Comparable companies with a similar market capitalisation 
or enterprise value
• Support service companies.
Remuneration package
Each Executive Director’s package comprises four elements: base
salary and benefits, annual bonus, participation in an Executive
Share Option Scheme and pension. The benefits comprise a car
or cash equivalent; insurance policies covering disability, personal
accident and health insurance; 30 days’ holiday and, in common
with all UK-based employees, participation in a Sharesave
Scheme. As Chairman, Peter Hickson receives the fees and
benefits detailed on page 32. He does not participate in the
annual bonus, the Executive Share Option Scheme or the
Sharesave Scheme.
Base salary and benefits
Base salary and benefits are reviewed annually, taking into
account competitive practice. The committee targets the median
position when base salary is compared with comparator
companies.
Incentive arrangements
Annual bonus scheme
The Executive Directors and other senior managers participate 
in an annual bonus scheme, which rewards them for achieving
demanding short-term performance targets addressing the
interests of all the group’s stakeholders. The annual bonus for
the year ended 31 March 2004, which was not pensionable, 
was a maximum of 60 per cent of base salary. 
To attain this bonus, performance is assessed using measured
objectives for operating profit after exceptional items, cash flow,
earnings per share and personal targets. Where appropriate,
consideration is given to health and safety and operational
effectiveness, including environmental compliance.
For the coming year the maximum bonus will remain at 60 per
cent of base salary, on the basis that the maximum bonus will
only be paid if demanding targets are met. Performance will 
be assessed against the objectives detailed in the previous
paragraph. Achieving the Business Plan targets will provide 
a payment of 20 per cent of base salary.
The committee recognises that it is in the interests of all
shareholders that Executive Directors build up a personal stake in
the company. Accordingly, the annual bonus scheme provides
that one third of the post-tax annual bonus is required to be
invested in AWG shares for a period of three years. If earnings
per share targets are achieved over this period, participants
receive matching free shares in AWG Plc equal in value to 
the gross amount of the bonus used to buy the shares. 
The performance targets have been the same as for the ESOS,
but for 2004 onwards will be the same as the new Long-Term
Incentive Plan, see over.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 to 2000
From 1997 to 2000 the Executive Directors and some senior
managers received an allocation of shares under a Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP). Under the plan each participant was
allocated a number of shares (with a value not exceeding 100
per cent of base salary per annum). Any release was dependent
on performance against an earnings per share target. As that
target was not achieved, no shares were released. Remuneration report continued
30 AWG Plc
Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 to 2004
An Executive Share Option Scheme replaced the Long-Term
Incentive Plan in 2001. Its participants are the Executive Directors
and a number of senior managers.
Under the scheme, each participant received annual option
grants, equating to a percentage of base salary, which varied
accordingly to seniority up to a maximum of three times base
salary each year. The exercise of options depends on the
company’s growth in earnings per share relative to inflation,
which the committee considered to be the most appropriate way
of measuring the company’s underlying financial performance.
Earnings per share targets are measured from a fixed base,
initially over a three-year period. Conditions apply, so that a
proportion (one third) of the options are exercisable if earnings
per share (EPS) growth exceeds inflation by an average of three
per cent per annum, rising to the full exercise of options if EPS
growth exceeds inflation by 14 per cent per annum. No options
are exercisable if EPS growth is less than an average of three per
cent per annum above inflation. Between three per cent and 14
per cent growth, the proportion of options that may be exercised
increases on a straight-line basis.
There is scope to retest the performance conditions at the end 
of the fourth and fifth financial year, from the same fixed base. 
It is intended that earnings per share as defined in the scheme
rules will be assessed independently by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP and verified by the Remuneration Committee.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were selected for this purpose in
their capacity as the company’s auditors.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2004
A new LTIP will be submitted at the 2004 AGM for approval. 
The proposed LTIP rewards three-year total shareholder return
(with no retesting) against an index of comparable water and
infrastructure-management companies. Awards are normally
expected to be in the range of 25 per cent to a maximum of 120
per cent of salary and to be made only to a limited number of
senior executives. For awards to vest in full, upper decile
performance must be achieved.
In parallel with the introduction of the new LTIP, the company
will also adopt shareholding guidelines for directors and
participating senior executives.
Further details are included in the AGM notice, which is available
on the company’s website, www.awg.com.
Service contracts
All Executive Directors have service contracts with a notice period
of one year. None of the service contracts provides for a pre-
determined amount of compensation in the event of early
termination beyond an executive’s notice period.
Director Date of contract
Jonson Cox 15 January 2004
Elliott Mannis 22 July 1998
Roy Pointer 19 January 1998
New service contracts for Roy Pointer and Elliott Mannis were
issued on 14 June 2000 consequent to the introduction of AWG
Plc as the new holding company under Section 425 of the
Companies Act 1985 (Scheme of Arrangement).
Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements and are
initially appointed under letters of appointment for two three-
year terms. This is subject to re-appointment after the first term,
which is not automatic. Their current terms of appointment
expire on the following dates:
Director Expiry date
Andrew Carr-Locke 1 October 2006
Bill Cockburn 22 January 2006
Frances Heaton 16 January 2005
Peter Hickson 25 April 2005
Sue Lyons 25 March 2006
Jim McKenna 19 January 2006
Performance graph
These graphs illustrate the performance of AWG Plc compared
to the FTSE mid-250 index. The committee considers this to be
the most appropriate broad market equity index for illustrating
the company’s performance relative to other companies with a
similar market capitalisation. The first graph details the period
following AWG’s Scheme of Arrangement in October 2000. 
An additional graph is detailed below illustrating the company’s
performance over a five-year period. 
This graph shows the value, by the end of March 2004, of £100 invested in
AWG on 9 October 2000 (the first day of dealing in the shares after the
Scheme of Arrangement) compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE
mid-250 Index. The other points plotted are the values of the intervening
financial year ends.
AWG FTSE mid-250 Index
Value (£) Value (£)
40 40
60 60
80 80
100 100
120 120
140 140
160 160
20 20
31 Mar 00 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 01
This graph shows the value, by the end of March 2004, of £100 invested in
AWG on 31 March 1999 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE
mid-250 Index. The other points plotted are the values of the intervening
financial year ends.
AWG FTSE mid-250 Index
Value (£) Value (£)
40 40
60 60
80 80
100 100
120 120
140 140
160 160
20 20
31 Mar 99 31 Mar 99 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 01
AWG
FTSE mid-250
AWG
FTSE mid-250 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31
Increase in
transfer
Increase in Increase in value less
Accrued accrued Accrued accrued Directors’ Transfer Transfer Accrued Accrued
pension pension lump sum lump sum contributions value at value at pension lump sum
2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003
£000(1) £000 £000(2) £000 £000(3) £000 £000 £000(1) £000(2)
Tony Eckford 51 4 - - 137 825 685 47 -
Roy Pointer 118 9 308 32 279 2,388 2,109 109 276
Elliott Mannis 38 10 - - 120 340 213 28 -
Euan McEwan 7 4 - - 42 77 32 3 -
(1) The accrued pension entitlement shown is that which is payable at normal retirement age, based on service to the end of the
respective financial year.
(2) The accrued lump sum shown is that which is payable at normal retirement age, based on service to the end of the respective
financial year.
(3) The transfer value of increases has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance 
Note GN11.
Additional accrued Additional accrued Transfer value of the
pension in year lump sum in year increase in benefits
(excluding inflation) (excluding inflation) (excluding inflation)
£000 £000 £000(1)(2)
Tony Eckford 2 - 32
Roy Pointer 7 24 149
Elliott Mannis 9 - 71
Euan McEwan 3 - 35
(1) The transfer value of the increase in benefits includes adjustment of pensions to reflect salary increases granted on promotion as
well as, where relevant, the value of benefits on improvement award.
(2) Excluding Directors’ contributions.
Pensions
The Directors and former Directors in the tables below are
members of the AWG Pension Scheme (AWGPS) (Roy Pointer) or
the AWG Executive Pension Scheme (AWGEPS) (Elliott Mannis,
Euan McEwan and Tony Eckford).
Roy Pointer is a member of the Mirror Image Section of the
AWGPS. The Mirror Image Section’s normal retirement age is 65,
or as early as age 60 on reaching 40 years’ service. The maximum
benefits are attained after 45 years’ service, being a pension of
56 per cent of pensionable salary plus a lump sum of 168 per
cent of pensionable salary. Pensionable salary is base salary and
benefits, excluding bonus payments. Pensions in payment are
increased annually in line with price inflation.
The AWGEPS provides for a maximum pension, at a normal
retirement age of 60, after 20 years’ service, equal to two thirds
of basic salary. Pension benefits are calculated on base salary
only. Pensions in payment are increased annually with price
inflation of up to five per cent.
The AWGPS and AWGEPS are exempt approved pension
schemes, and provide benefits to the extent permitted by Inland 
Revenue limits. The group had established funded, 
unapproved, retirement benefit schemes (FURBS) to provide
benefits above this level in respect of Elliott Mannis and 
Tony Eckford.
The Remuneration Committee regards the AWGEPS and defined
benefit section of AWGPS as closed to new members. All new
Executive Directors and senior managers will be provided with a
defined contribution pension arrangement. This would normally
be within the defined contribution section of the AWGPS,
created in 2002 for new joiners.
For all Executive Directors there is a payment of a lump sum 
in the event of death in service, equivalent to four times salary,
and pensions for their dependents. 
The pensions benefits of Directors in the year to 31 March 2004
are summarised below in accordance with the Companies Act
1985 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority
(rounded to the nearest thousand pounds).
The transfer values disclosed in the two tables above are
actuarially determined to provide for pensions liability and not
sums paid by the company to the individuals concerned. They
cannot meaningfully be added to their annual remuneration.
Tony Eckford and Elliott Mannis participated in funded,
unapproved, retirement benefit schemes (FURBS). Details of the
amounts paid by the company in respect of these arrangements
for the year ending 31 March 2004 are shown in the table of
Directors’ emoluments. Compensation
Salary/ Benefits Annual FURBS/Com- for loss 2004 2003
fees in kind bonus pensation of office Other Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
Peter Hickson (1) 358 20 - - - - 378 60
Executive Directors
Jonson Cox (2) 85 4 60 - - 25 174 -
Elliott Mannis 235 14 66 102 - - 417 585
Roy Pointer 230 24 92 - - 1 347 432
Non-Executive Directors
Andrew Carr-Locke (3) 15 - - - - - 15 -
Bill Cockburn 39 - - - - - 39 5
Frances Heaton 36 - - - - - 36 28
Sue Lyons 30 - - - - - 30 1
Jim McKenna 36 - - - - - 36 31
Past Directors
Jim Cronin (4) 10 - - - - - 10 28
Tony Eckford (5) 104 7 - 98 231 - 440 415
Chris Mellor (6) - - - - 370 - 370 487
Euan McEwan (7) 227 13 12 40 - 5 297 340
Payments to former directors - - - - - - - 130
2,589 2,542
Contributions to defined benefit pension schemes 142 173
1. Peter Hickson received a fee of £150,000 per annum as Non-Executive Chairman. He temporarily assumed the role of Chief Executive
from March 2003 until the appointment of Jonson Cox and received an uplifted fee for that period. 
2. Appointed Group Chief Executive on 15 January 2004; includes under ‘other’ a one-off payment relating to Jonson Cox’s
appointment.
3. Appointed 2 October 2003. 
4. Resigned 30 July 2003.
5. Tony Eckford left the company on 26 September 2003. He received a lump sum payment of £114,757 and phased monthly
payments totalling £57,105 in lieu of compensation for loss of office. In addition he received a contribution of £50,959 into 
a FURBS and £8,902 accrued holiday pay.
6. Chris Mellor’s employment ceased on 19 March 2003. A lump sum payment of £143,675, phased monthly payments totalling
£206,666 and the provision of benefits to a value of £19,607 were made as compensation for loss of office during the year.
Consequent to those termination arrangements, all options under the SAYE and ESOS schemes and matching shares under the
Annual Retained Bonus Scheme (ARBS) lapsed. His contingent interest in shares under the LTIP continued but have now lapsed
subsequent to performance criteria not being met.
7. Euan McEwan’s employment ceased on 14 April 2004, termination arrangements regarding his loss of office have still to be agreed. 
Remuneration report continued
32 AWG Plc
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The board sets the fees for the Non-Executive Directors. For the
year ended 31 March 2004 these fees were £30,000 per annum. 
The Deputy Chairman received additional remuneration of
£10,000 per annum. Jim McKenna and Frances Heaton received
an additional remuneration of £6,000 per annum for chairing
the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee
respectively. 
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive benefits or pension
contributions from the group, nor do they participate in any of
the group’s incentive schemes.
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the Directors of the company for their
services as Directors of the company and (where relevant) 
its subsidiaries are set out below, rounded to the nearest
thousand pounds. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33
Directors’ interests in shares and corporate bonds †
Throughout this report, all interests in shares as at 31 March 2004 are in relation to AWG Plc ordinary shares of 19
181
/201
pence each.
The Directors’ interests in the shares of the company are shown below:
Number of ordinary shares Number of redeemable shares
Beneficial and family interests in shares: 1 April 2003* 31 March 2004 1 April 2003* 31 March 2004
Jonson Cox – 5,000 66,000 –
Elliott Mannis 7,828 11,375 – –
Euan McEwan 7,465 8,739 – 228,760
Roy Pointer 17,094 18,147 – –
Andrew Carr-Locke ––––
Bill Cockburn – 3,000 – –
Peter Hickson 36,875 54,647 – –
Frances Heaton 1,305 1,049 – –
Sue Lyons – 1,850 – –
Jim McKenna 625 502 973,200 576,200
* or date of appointment
On 16 June 2003, the ordinary shares of 16 pence each were consolidated into ordinary shares of 19
181
/201 pence each on the basis of
201 new shares for every 250 old shares.
The figures include ordinary shares held in trust for Directors as the share element of the annual bonus scheme, being at 31 March
2004 (with 31 March 2003 figures in brackets), Roy Pointer 4,332 (1,735), Elliott Mannis 3,284 (1,341) and Euan McEwan 2,738 (0).
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 to 2000 †
Maximum contingent interest in shares under the group’s Long-Term Incentive Plan is set out in the table below:
31 March
1 April 2003 Granted Lapsed 2004*
Elliott Mannis 33,747 – 33,747 Nil
Roy Pointer 33,747 – 33,747 Nil
Tony Eckford (1) 33,747 – 33,747 Nil
*or date of resignation
(1) Employment ceased on 26 September 2003 
Matching share element of annual retained bonus scheme †
Matching shares were allocated on 11 July 2003 at a share price of £5.61. The release of matching shares is subject to the
achievement of performance conditions outlined on page 29.
Maximum contingent interest in matching shares under the group’s annual retained bonus scheme is set out in the table below:
Release date for
outstanding
1 April 2003 Allocated Lapsed 31 March 2004* awards
Elliott Mannis 1,441 4,750 – 6,191 From 9 July 2005
Euan McEwan Nil 4,563 – 4,563 From 9 July 2005
Roy Pointer 2,716 5,857 – 8,573 From 9 July 2005
Tony Eckford (1) 1,441 4,375 5,816 Nil –
*or date of resignation
(1) Employment ceased on 26 September 2003 
Share options
Executive Directors have the right to participate in the employee Sharesave Scheme. Details of Directors’ options are available in the
company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection. The market price of the company’s shares at 31 March 2004
was £5.49 and the range during the year was £4.51 to £5.69.
Options to subscribe for ordinary shares, under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes, granted to, lapsed and exercised
by Directors during the year, are summarised over the page †. Details of these schemes, are shown in the remuneration report.
† denotes auditable elements of the remuneration report Remuneration report continued
34 AWG Plc
Options outstanding Options outstanding Exercise period for
1 April 2003 Options granted Options exercised as at 31 March 2004 outstanding options
Weighted
Options average
Option cancelled Option exercise
Number Number price (£) Number Number price (£) Number price (£) From To
Sharesave scheme options
Elliott Mannis (1) 2,232 2,155 4.28 – 2,232 4.34 2,155 4.28 01/04/07 30/09/07
Euan McEwan (2) 5,251––––– 5,251 3.38 01/04/10 30/09/10
Roy Pointer (1) 3,251 1,293 4.28 – 892 4.34 3,652 4.14 01/04/04 30/09/07
Tony Eckford (3) 4,859 – – 3,972 887 3.38 Nil – –
Executive share options
Jonson Cox (4) – 228,136 5.26––– 228,136 5.26 16/01/07 16/01/14
Elliott Mannis 233,062 130,555 5.40––– 363,617 5.35 21/12/04 31/07/13
Euan McEwan (2) 117,332 128,888 5.40––– 246,220 5.39 09/07/05 31/07/13
Roy Pointer 243,480 127,777 5.40––– 371,257 5.35 15/08/97 31/07/13
Tony Eckford (3) 233,062 – – 84,430 – – 148,632 5.31 21/12/04 09/01/06
(1) Elliott Mannis and Roy Pointer exercised 2,232 and 892 Sharesave options respectively on 7 July 2003 at the option price of £4.34.
The mid-market closing price at the date of exercise was £5.57. 
(2) Employment ceased on 14 April 2004. The termination arrangements, including pension, regarding Euan McEwan’s loss of office
have still to be agreed.
(3) Employment ceased on 26 September 2003. Under the SAYE scheme rules he was allowed to continue to save into his SAYE
scheme for six months after his date of leaving and was then allowed to exercise 887 Sharesave options on 4 March 2004 at the
option price of £3.38. The mid-market closing price at the date of exercise was £5.615. Under the ESOS rules his ESOS options
have been reduced proportionately in line to reflect the period he served against the performance period.
(4) Jonson Cox was granted 5,703 options under the ESOS scheme and 222,433 ‘Phantom Awards’ under a Schedule (Grants of
Phantom Awards) to that scheme.
All Executive Share Options, apart from the 10,418 granted to Roy Pointer prior to 1996, are subject to performance targets, details of
which are on page 30.
Anglian Water Services Financing Plc Bonds †
Interests of Directors in bonds issued by Anglian Water Services Financing Plc, (£275 million class B bond at 7.882 per cent interest
until 2012) a wholly owned subsidiary, are as follows:
1 April 2003 31 March 2004
Elliott Mannis £25,000 £25,000
Roy Pointer £30,000 £30,000
There have been no changes to the shareholdings, options, bonds or awards shown at 31 March 2004 in the tables above, except 
as follows:
– on 1 April 2004 Roy Pointer exercised 1,241 Sharesave options at the option price of £4.68. The mid-market closing price at the date
of exercise was £5.50.
– on 2 June 2004 Jonson Cox purchased 2,500 ordinary shares at a price of £6.24.
– on 2 June 2004 Jonson Cox and Roy Pointer purchased 1,927 and 1,220 ordinary shares respectively and were awarded 3,212 and
2,034 Matching shares respectively in accordance with the Annual Retained Bonus Scheme (ARBS). On 10 June 2004, Roy Pointer’s
entitlement under the ARBS was corrected by his purchase of 1,735 shares at £6.17 and the award of a further 2,892 matching
shares at the price extant at 2 June 2004 (£6.225).
On behalf of the board
Jim McKenna
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
2 June 2004
† denotes auditable elements of the remuneration report Independent auditors’ report
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 35
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the group profit and loss account, the group and company balance sheets,
the group cash flow statement, the statement of group total recognised gains and losses, the statement of movement in group
shareholders’ funds and the related notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting
policies set out in the statement of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A 
to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors’ remuneration report (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities. The Directors are also responsible
for preparing the Directors’ remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements
and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. The other information comprises only the
Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ remuneration report, the Chairman’s statement, the Group Chief Executive's
questions and answers,  the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report 
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s or group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part
of the Directors’ remuneration report. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors’
remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 March 2004 and 
of the loss and cash flows of the group for the year then ended;
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• those parts of the Directors’ remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
2 June 2004 Group profit and loss account
for the year ended 31 March
36 AWG Plc
2004 2003
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items and items and items and items and
goodwill goodwill goodwill goodwill 
amortisation amortisation Total amortisation amortisation Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
2 Group turnover:
Total continuing group and share of joint ventures 1,803.1 – 1,803.1 1,763.2 – 1,763.2
Less: share of turnover of joint ventures (129.4) – (129.4) (142.8) – (142.8)
Continuing operations 1,673.7 – 1,673.7 1,620.4 – 1,620.4
Discontinued operations 85.9 – 85.9 119.6 – 119.6
1,759.6 – 1,759.6 1,740.0 – 1,740.0
Operating costs before depreciation 
and amortisation of intangible assets (1,246.9) (22.7) (1,269.6) (1,230.6) (55.4) (1,286.0)
Depreciation net of amortisation 
of grants and contributions (180.5) – (180.5) (190.5) – (190.5)
Amortisation of intangible assets (0.7) (13.5) (14.2) (0.5) (13.8) (14.3)
Goodwill impairment ––– – (4.4) (4.4)
3 Group operating costs (1,428.1) (36.2) (1,464.3) (1,421.6) (73.6) (1,495.2)
Continuing operations 313.2 (34.9) 278.3 287.1 (70.5) 216.6
2 Discontinued operations 18.3 (1.3) 17.0 31.3 (3.1) 28.2
5 Group operating profit 331.5 (36.2) 295.3 318.4 (73.6) 244.8
Share of operating profit in joint ventures 
(all continuing operations) 10.1 – 10.1 7.5 (3.6) 3.9
Total operating profit: group and share of joint ventures 341.6 (36.2) 305.4 325.9 (77.2) 248.7
4 Loss on disposal and closure of businesses: 
Continuing operations – (33.2) (33.2) – (1.2) (1.2)
Discontinued operations – (88.3) (88.3) –––
– (121.5) (121.5) – (1.2) (1.2)
2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 341.6 (157.7) 183.9 325.9 (78.4) 247.5
6 Interest payable (net) (263.7) – (263.7) (219.9) (70.0) (289.9)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 77.9 (157.7) (79.8) 106.0 (148.4) (42.4)
7 Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 4.3 4.2 8.5 (37.5) 27.8 (9.7)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 82.2 (153.5) (71.3) 68.5 (120.6) (52.1)
Equity minority interest (6.2) – (6.2) (9.5) – (9.5)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 76.0 (153.5) (77.5) 59.0 (120.6) (61.6)
8 Dividends – non-equity (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3)
Retained profit/(loss) 75.7 (153.5) (77.8) 58.7 (120.6) (61.9)
9 Earnings/(loss) per share – basic 50.6p (102.6)p (52.0)p 25.0p (51.4)p (26.4)p
9 Earnings/(loss) per share – diluted – – (52.0)p – – (26.4)p
Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation are analysed in note 4.
There was no difference between the loss on ordinary activities before taxation and the loss for the financial year stated above, 
and their historical cost equivalents. Statement of group total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31 March
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 37
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Loss attributable to group shareholders (77.5) (61.6)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments (0.2) (4.2)
26 Total recognised gains and losses since the last annual report and financial statements (77.7) (65.8)
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Total recognised gains and losses for the year (77.7) (65.8)
8 Dividends paid and proposed on non-equity shares (0.3) (0.3)
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves, 
now reinstated and written off against profit for the year 15.6 3.5
25 Issue of shares 1.4 2.6
Return of capital – cancellation of ‘C’ shares – (500.9)
26 Redemption of redeemable shares (248.6) (110.6)
26 Share issue costs (0.4) (0.2)
Decrease in shareholders’ funds (310.0) (671.7)
26 Opening shareholders’ funds 917.4 1,589.1
Closing shareholders’ funds 607.4 917.4
Statement of movement in group shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31 March Group and company balance sheets
at 31 March
38 AWG Plc
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
12 Intangible assets 206.1 258.7 – –
13 Tangible assets 3,832.2 4,116.3 – –
14 Investments
Joint ventures:
– Share of gross assets 316.6 376.0 – –
– Share of gross liabilities (314.9) (366.1) – –
22 – Amounts included in provisions 13.1 9.4 – –
14.8 19.3 – –
Associates 0.1 0.2 – –
Other investments 3.7 3.7 1,994.1 1,994.3
Total investments 18.6 23.2 1,994.1 1,994.3
4,056.9 4,398.2 1,994.1 1,994.3
Current assets
16 Stock 136.0 203.3 – –
17 Debtors 484.2 562.6 90.3 32.7
18 Investments – 18.8 – –
Cash at bank and in hand 755.4 395.4 1.1 6.5
1,375.6 1,180.1 91.4 39.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
19 Short-term borrowings (45.9) (60.5) – –
19 Other creditors (609.4) (650.0) (6.5) (16.4)
(655.3) (710.5) (6.5) (16.4)
Net current assets 720.3 469.6 84.9 22.8
Total assets less current liabilities 4,777.2 4,867.8 2,079.0 2,017.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
20 Loans and other borrowings (3,900.1) (3,574.8) (791.0) (791.0)
21 Other creditors (93.6) (97.5) – –
(3,993.7) (3,672.3) (791.0) (791.0)
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges (173.9) (165.9) – (0.6)
Net assets 609.6 1,029.6 1,288.0 1,225.5
Capital and reserves
25 Called up share capital 44.6 38.2 44.6 38.2
26 Share premium account 6.9 6.0 6.9 6.0
26 Capital redemption reserve 600.9 352.3 600.9 352.3
26 Other reserves – – 557.6 812.5
26 Profit and loss account (45.0) 520.9 78.0 16.5
Total shareholders’ funds 607.4 917.4 1,288.0 1,225.5
Equity minority interest 2.2 112.2 – –
Capital employed 609.6 1,029.6 1,288.0 1,225.5
Shareholders’ funds are analysed as:
Equity 591.3 907.6 1,271.9 1,215.7
Non-equity 16.1 9.8 16.1 9.8
607.4 917.4 1,288.0 1,225.5
The notes on pages 43 to 73 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the board of Directors on 2 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Hickson Elliott Mannis
Chairman Group Finance Director Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 39
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
a Net cash inflow from operating activities 515.3 465.1
Dividends received from joint ventures 3.4 4.0
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 23.0 26.9
Interest paid (223.1) (210.8)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (9.8) (11.4)
Cash flows treated as finance costs under FRS4 (1.8) (24.0)
Dividends received from trade investments – 0.2
Dividends paid to minority interests (4.1) (4.1)
Non-equity dividends paid (0.3) (0.3)
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (216.1) (223.5)
Taxation
Taxation received 1.7 9.2
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of intangible fixed assets – (14.1)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (308.4) (314.6)
Grants and contributions received 18.6 16.8
Disposal of tangible fixed assets 16.3 33.1
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (273.5) (278.8)
Acquisitions and disposals
Payments to acquire trade investments and joint ventures (1.5) (5.6)
b Payments to acquire subsidiary undertakings (net of cash and overdrafts acquired) – (15.2)
c Receipts from sales of businesses (net of cash and overdrafts disposed of) 142.3 3.3
Receipts from sales of fixed asset investments 1.3 21.0
Net cash inflow for acquisitions and disposals 142.1 3.5
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 172.9 (20.5)
Management of liquid resources
d Increase in short-term deposits and investments (327.2) (97.6)
Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 1.4 2.6
Return of capital (169.4) (500.9)
Redemption of redeemable shares (79.2) (110.6)
e Increase in loans 464.1 2,302.2
e Repayments of amounts borrowed (19.3) (1,473.9)
e Capital element of finance lease rental payments (27.5) (34.4)
Net cash inflow from financing 170.1 185.0
d Increase in cash 15.8 66.9
Included within net cash inflow from operating activities, net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of 
finance and net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment are amounts in relation to disposed subsidiaries 
of £(5.7) million, £(7.9) million and £(10.3) million respectively.  Notes to the group cash flow statement 
40 AWG Plc
(a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating profit 295.3 244.8
Dividends received from trade investments – (0.2)
Depreciation (net of amortisation of deferred grants and contributions) 180.5 190.5
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14.2 18.7
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (1.0) (0.5)
Impairment of trade investments – 3.3
Net movements on provisions 4.0 (1.9)
Closure costs charged after operating profit (2.0) –
491.0 454.7
Decrease/(increase) in working capital:
Stock (10.5) (3.0)
Debtors 48.5 24.7
Creditors (13.7) (11.3)
24.3 10.4
Net cash inflow from operating activities 515.3 465.1
The group cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2004 includes net cash outflows of £17.9 million (2003: £75.8
million) in respect of current year exceptional charges and £8.7 million (2003: £46.0 million) in respect of the settlement of prior
year exceptional charges. 
(b) Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings
2004 2003
£m £m 
Net assets acquired:
Tangible fixed assets – 2.8
Stock and work in progress – 2.9
Debtors – 6.6
Cash at bank and in hand – 0.1
Overdrafts – (3.6)
Other short-term creditors – (8.7)
Loans and other borrowings – (0.1)
Net assets acquired – –
Goodwill arising on acquisition – 15.1
Net consideration – 15.1
Satisfied by:
Cash (including costs) – 11.7
Deferred consideration – 3.4
– 15.1
Net cash outflow in respect of the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings
Total cash paid – 11.7
Cash at bank and in hand of acquired subsidiary undertakings – (0.1)
Overdrafts of acquired subsidiary undertakings – 3.6
Net outflow of cash in respect of the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – 15.2 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 41
(c) Disposal of businesses
2004 2003
£m £m
Net assets disposed of:
Tangible fixed assets 392.9 0.1
Fixed asset investments – 0.1
Stock 77.9 1.3
Debtors 43.6 3.4
Cash at bank and in hand 36.9 1.0
Creditors (49.7) (3.8)
Loans and other borrowings (149.4) –
Intercompany loan (105.9) –
246.3 2.1
Minority interest (113.4) -
Unamortised goodwill (note 12) 39.0 0.2
Goodwill previously written off, now reinstated 9.5 3.5
Group’s share of net assets disposed of 181.4 5.8
Less consideration received on completion (see below) (103.0) (4.6)
Disposal costs (including £4.2 million accrued) 15.5 -
Loss on disposal (£88.3 million discontinued, £5.6 million continuing) 93.9 1.2
Analysis of the net cash inflow in respect of the disposal of businesses:
Consideration received upon completion 103.0 4.6
Disposal costs (11.3) -
Accrued consideration, not yet received (0.9) (0.3)
Net consideration received in cash 90.8 4.3
Part repayment of intercompany loan 88.4 -
Cash at bank of disposed businesses (36.9) (1.0)
Net cash inflow in respect of the disposal of businesses 142.3 3.3
Further details of disposals are given in note 15. Notes to the group cash flow statement continued
42 AWG Plc
(d) Analysis of net debt
Currency
1 April Non-cash translation 31 March
2003 Cash flows Disposals movements movements 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 201.3 14.0 – – – 215.3
Bank overdrafts (3.2) 1.8 – – – (1.4)
198.1 15.8 – – – 213.9
Deposits and investments 212.9 327.2 – – – 540.1
Debt due within one year (57.3) 33.3 10.9 (30.8) (0.6) (44.5)
Debt due after one year (3,574.8) (449.2) 138.5 (5.9) (8.7) (3,900.1)
(3,221.1) (72.9) 149.4 (36.7) (9.3) (3,190.6)
Non-cash movements comprise amortisation of discounts and expenses relating to debt issues, issues of loan notes as deferred
consideration, new finance leases entered into, indexation of loan stock, indexation of Retail Price Index (RPI) swaps and
transfers between categories of debt. Management of liquid resources shown in the cash flow statement is comprised of
movements in short-term deposits, which have maturity dates of up to one year.
Included within cash flow and investments above are £540.1 million (2003: £194.1 million) of short-term deposits maturing
within three months, which are included in cash in the balance sheet.
At 31 March 2004, £203.5 million (2003: £88.7 million) of the group’s cash at bank and in hand and £269.0 million (2003:
£88.2 million) of the deposits and investments were held in the Anglian Water Services Holdings Limited group. In order for
these amounts to be made available to the rest of the group, Anglian Water Services Limited must satisfy certain covenants
which were put in place on 30 July 2002, following the group’s financial restructuring, prior to declaring dividends. A further
£10.1 million (2003: £10.5 million) of the group’s deposits and investments are held as collateral for outstanding loan notes. 
In addition, £23.4 million (2003: £18.6 million) of the group’s deposits are held by Rutland Insurance Limited (the group’s
insurance captive) in order to maintain its required solvency ratio.
(e) Movement in group net debt
2004 2003
£m £m
At beginning of year (3,221.1) (2,612.1)
Net increase in cash 15.8 66.9
Increase in short-term bank deposits and investments 327.2 97.6
Increase in loans (464.1) (2,302.2)
Repayment of amounts borrowed 19.3 1,473.9
Capital element of finance lease rental payments 27.5 34.4
Finance costs capitalised under FRS 4 1.4 23.8
Loans disposed with subsidiary 149.4 –
Loans assumed within subsidiary undertakings – (0.1)
Indexation of loan stock and RPI swaps (32.2) (21.3)
Loan notes issued (2.2) (2.5)
Amortisation of discount and expenses relating to debt issues (2.3) (4.4)
New finance leases – (7.5)
Currency translation difference (9.3) 32.4
At end of year (3,190.6) (3,221.1) Notes to the financial statements 
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 43
1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the current 
and preceding year.
a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting
standards and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, except as disclosed in note 1 (j). 
b) Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements comprise a consolidation of the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiaries 
at 31 March. The results of companies acquired or disposed of are consolidated from the effective date of the acquisition or to
the effective date of disposal. The treatment of a company as an associated undertaking has regard to the group’s holding of 
at least 20 per cent of the equity capital, representation on its Board of Directors and participation in policy making, including
dividend policy. The group’s share of the profits or losses of these companies is included in the profit and loss account and the
investments are included in the balance sheet at the group’s share of the net assets of the companies. An entity is treated as a
joint venture if the group jointly controls that entity together with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The group’s share of turnover and operating profit of joint ventures has been reported on the face of the profit and loss account
and the group’s share of gross assets and liabilities has been reported on the balance sheet. Intra-group sales and profit are
eliminated fully on consolidation.
c) Goodwill
On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, fair values are attributed to the net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired.
Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value of the net assets
acquired. Fair values are assessed in accordance with FRS 7 Fair Values in Acquisition Accounting. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
prior to 31 March 1998 was set off directly against reserves and has not been reinstated on implementation of FRS 10 Goodwill
and Intangible Assets. Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since this date is capitalised in the financial statements as an
intangible asset and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life. On disposal of a subsidiary any goodwill
arising on acquisition that was previously written off to reserves, or that has not been amortised through the profit and loss
account is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
d) Associates and joint ventures
The group’s share of turnover and profit and loss of associates and joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss
account. The group’s share of their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet. These amounts are taken from the
latest audited financial statements of the undertakings concerned or from coterminous management accounts if the balance
sheet date in those audited financial statements is greater than three months from the balance sheet date of the relevant group
financial statements. To the extent that joint ventures and associates have net liabilities, the aggregate amount is added back to
the amount of investments, and transferred to provisions.
e) Unincorporated joint ventures
The group share of turnover and profit and loss of unincorporated joint ventures is included in arriving at operating profit and 
its share of individual assets and liabilities is included, where appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheet.
f) Profit recognition policy
i. Construction
Profits on short-term contracts are included in the financial statements upon substantial completion of those contracts. Profits 
on long-term contracts are included in the financial statements when the outcome of a contract can be assessed with reasonable
certainty and are determined by reference to an internal valuation of measured work carried out less related costs of production.
Provision is made in full for foreseeable losses.
ii. Property development 
Profit is included in the financial statements in connection with property developments when a legally binding contract for the
sale of the development has been entered into and legal completion has taken place before the year end. When legally binding
contracts exist, profits on the construction and refurbishment elements of the development are determined on the same basis 
as for construction. Other profits arising from developments are included in the financial statements only when legal completion
of the sale of the development has been effected.
iii. Claims
In establishing turnover and profit, credit is taken for claims only when agreed by the client. Having credited such claims to the
profit and loss account, provision is made whenever ultimate payment seems doubtful.
g) Turnover
Turnover represents the income receivable (excluding value added tax) in the ordinary course of business for goods and 
services provided and, in respect of contract work in progress, the value of work carried out when it can be estimated reliably. 
The group has implemented Application Note G of FRS 5 during the year; the effect is not material to the financial statements.
Turnover of development and private finance initiative properties is recorded when a sale is completed in accordance with the
profit recognition criteria in note 1 (f) above. Turnover includes sales of directly held work in progress and interests in special
purpose subsidiaries and joint ventures if the substance of the transaction is the sale of the underlying property. 
Income includes an estimation of the amount of main water and wastewater charges unbilled at the year end. The accrual 
is estimated using a defined methodology based upon weighted average water consumption by tariff, which is calculated 
based upon historical billing information. The calculation is sensitive to estimated consumption for domestic customers 
(a fall of 1 cubic metre in average annual consumption will reduce turnover by approximately £1.0 million). Notes to the financial statements continued
44 AWG Plc
1 Accounting policies (continued)
h) Intangible fixed assets, amortisation and impairment
Intangible fixed assets comprise goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, premiums paid to acquire unincorporated
businesses and payments to acquire licences to operate plant, mainly in overseas locations.
Goodwill is generally amortised over 20 years being the Directors’ best estimate of its useful economic life or the life of the
contract if less than 20 years. At the end of each full year after an acquisition and following the occurrence of an impairment
trigger in any year, the carrying amount of goodwill is assessed for impairment by comparing it with the higher of net present
value of future cash flows and the expected net realisable value. Should the carrying amount exceed the higher of these two
measures, an impairment charge arises in the profit and loss account in the year.
Licences are amortised over the period of the licence agreement, currently 20 years.
Licences are assessed for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill, if an appropriate
trigger arises.
i) Tangible fixed assets, depreciation and impairment
Tangible fixed assets comprise:
Infrastructure assets (being mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge 
pipelines and sea outfalls) comprise a network of systems. Investment expenditure on assets relating to increases in capacity or
enhancements of the network and on maintaining the operating capability of the network in accordance with defined standards
of service is treated as an addition and included at cost after deducting grants and contributions. The depreciation charge for
infrastructure assets is the estimated level of annual expenditure required to maintain the operating capability of the network
which is based on the group’s independently certified asset management plan.
Fixed assets are assessed for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill, if an appropriate
trigger arises.
Other assets (including properties, over-ground plant and equipment) are included at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Cost includes own work capitalised which represents the direct cost of materials, labour and applicable overheads. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other assets is calculated at rates expected to write off cost, less the estimated residual
value of the relevant assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, which are principally as follows:
Operational structures 30–80 years
Buildings 30–60 years
Fixed plant 12–40 years
Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3–10 years
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are commissioned.
Interest costs are not capitalised into the cost of fixed assets.
j) Grants and contributions
Grants and contributions on capital expenditure, other than those relating to infrastructure assets, are credited to a deferral
account within creditors and are released to the profit and loss account evenly over the expected useful life of the relevant asset,
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. Grants and contributions to capital expenditure on infrastructure
assets are deducted from the costs of these assets. This policy is not in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 of the
Companies Act 1985, which requires grants and contributions to be shown as deferred income, but has been adopted in order
to show a true and fair view as, in the opinion of the Directors, while a provision is made for depreciation of infrastructure
assets, these assets have no determinable finite economic life and hence no basis exists on which to recognise such contributions
as deferred income. The financial effect of this departure is disclosed in note 13. Revenue grants and contributions are credited
to the profit and loss account in the year to which they apply.
k) Leased assets
Where assets are financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an
asset to the lessee (finance leases), the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the corresponding capital cost 
is shown as an obligation to the lessor. Leasing payments are treated as consisting of a capital element and finance costs, 
the capital element reducing the obligation to the lessor, and the finance costs being written off to the profit and loss account
over the primary period of the lease. The assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful economic lives and 
the lease period. All other leases are regarded as operating leases. Rental costs arising under operating leases are expensed 
over the term of the lease.
Equipment leased to customers under operating leases is capitalised in accordance with note 1 (i) above. Operating lease
income is accounted for on a straight line basis with any rental increases recognised during the period to which they relate.
l) Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
m) Stocks and work in progress
Stocks are stated at cost less any provision necessary to recognise damage and obsolescence. Work in progress, with the
exception of long-term contract work in progress, is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes labour,
materials, transport and attributable overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated proceeds from the sale of stock less all
further costs to be incurred. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 45
n) Long-term contracts
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts are stated at cost plus attributable profits less provision for any known 
or anticipated losses and payments on account and are included in debtors. Payments on account in excess of amounts
recoverable on long-term contracts are included in creditors.
o) Pension costs
Contributions to the group’s defined benefit pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread 
the regular cost of pensions over the average service lives of employees, in accordance with the advice of an independent
qualified actuary. Actuarial surpluses and deficits are amortised, where appropriate, over the average remaining service lives 
of employees. The cost of defined contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in respect 
of which the contributions become payable. The notes to the accounts disclose the effect of the transitional provisions 
of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
p) Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
q) Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, 
at the rate of exchange under the related forward currency contract. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies,
including the group’s interest in the underlying net assets of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, are translated 
into Sterling at the financial year end exchange rates. Profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated
into Sterling at average rates of exchange during the year. Gains or losses arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas
Subsidiaries and associates are taken to reserves, together with exchange differences arising on related foreign currency hedge
instruments to the extent these offset. Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
r) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences, arising from the different treatment for accounts and taxation purposes of
events and transactions recognised in the financial statements of the current and previous years. Deferred taxation is calculated
at the rates at which it is estimated that taxation will arise. The deferred taxation balances are discounted using the post tax
yields to maturity that could be obtained at the balance sheet date on Government bonds with maturity dates similar to those
of the deferred taxation assets and liabilities. For assets with a life in excess of 30 years, the 30-year bond rate has been used 
as no other quoted rates are available.
Deferred taxation is not provided in respect of timing differences arising from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, 
by the balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into, and it is unlikely that any gain will 
be rolled over.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable
profits against which the deferred tax asset can be recovered in future periods.
Calculation of deferred tax on infrastructure assets:
Infrastructure assets have an effectively unlimited life and a notional depreciation charge, the infrastructure renewal charge, 
is applied to the network (note 1(i) tangible fixed assets and depreciation). For the purposes of estimating the deferred tax
liability in relation to infrastructure assets, the useful life over which the underlying differences reverse is estimated by deflating
the current cost based infrastructure renewals charge to an appropriate deemed historic cost based depreciation charge.
s) Financial instruments
Derivative instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the group’s risk management policy and no trading in
financial instruments is undertaken. Loans and other borrowings are recorded using the contracted rates implicit in the financial
instruments used to hedge the group’s exposure to fluctuations in currency rates. Similarly, interest is charged to the profit and
loss account based on the contracted interest rates. Issue costs are amortised at a constant rate over the life of the underlying
instrument.
t) Provisions
Provisions of a long-term nature are discounted to reflect the time value of money in the estimated period over which the
provision will be utilised. The rate of discount varies according to the nature of the underlying provision and further details 
are given in note 22. The unwinding of the discount on those provisions (other than deferred tax) is included within net 
interest payable.
u) Bid and pre-contract costs
Bid and pre-contract costs are written off as an expense until such time as the award of a contract becomes virtually certain.
v) Closure and redundancy costs
Once irrevocable decisions have been made to close an operation, provisions are made to reflect the extent to which obligations,
including redundancy costs, have been incurred that are not expected to be covered by future profits of the operation.
Provisions include only the direct costs of termination and any operating losses up to the date of the termination, after taking
account of the aggregate profit, if any, to be recognised from the future profits of the operation. Redundancy costs are charged
to the profit and loss account in the period in which the group both becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs and
has announced the main features of the programme to affected employees or their representatives. Notes to the financial statements continued
46 AWG Plc
2 Segmental analysis
Segmental analysis by class of business 2004
Total
operating
profit/(loss)
before
exceptional Profit/ Net
items and (loss) operating
goodwill Exceptional Goodwill before assets/
Turnover amortisation items (a) amortisation interest (liabilities)(b)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK water and wastewater 766.6 318.9 – – 318.9 3,610.5
Utility Services 280.1 8.2 – (2.5) 5.7 91.1
Government Services 219.8 14.8 (0.9) (4.5) 9.4 75.5
Construction Services 385.8 (7.1) (2.5) (5.2) (14.8) 53.1
Total Infrastructure Management 885.7 15.9 (3.4) (12.2) 0.3 219.7
Developments and Commercial Services 143.9 4.8 (10.0) – (5.2) 88.8
International Services 117.9 14.0 (118.5) (1.3) (105.8) 8.3
Other (c) 33.3 (11.3) (12.3) – (23.6) (40.4)
Less: intersegmental trading (d) (58.4) (0.7) – – (0.7) –
1,889.0 341.6 (144.2) (13.5) 183.9 3,886.9
Total
– Group 1,759.6 331.5 (143.2) (13.5) 174.8
– Joint ventures (e) 129.4 10.1 (1.0) – 9.1
Segmental analysis by class of business 2003
Total
operating
profit/(loss)
before
exceptional Profit/
items and (loss) Net
goodwill Exceptional Goodwill before operating
Turnover amortisation items (a) amortisation interest assets (b)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK water and wastewater 726.8 287.4 (18.0) – 269.4 3,524.7
Utility Services 278.6 10.2 (0.9) (2.5) 6.8 101.7
Government Services 119.9 10.0 (5.5) (3.0) 1.5 83.4
Construction Services 391.8 0.6 (0.9) (5.2) (5.5) 63.8
Total Infrastructure Management 790.3 20.8 (7.3) (10.7) 2.8 248.9
Developments and Commercial Services 181.2 2.1 (1.5) – 0.6 159.9
International Services 209.5 26.2 (8.5) (3.1) 14.6 393.5
Other (c) 46.1 (9.0) (29.3) – (38.3) 22.5
Less: intersegmental trading (d) (71.1) (1.6) – – (1.6) –
1,882.8 325.9 (64.6) (13.8) 247.5 4,349.5
Total
– Group 1,740.0 318.4 (61.0) (13.8) 243.6
– Joint ventures (e) 142.8 7.5 (3.6) – 3.9
Segmental analysis by geographical origin
Net operating
Turnover Profit/(loss) before interest assets/(liabilities) (b)
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,756.4 1,707.9 246.6 224.5 3,882.0 3,956.4
Europe 82.5 96.3 (24.8) 4.5 9.7 108.7
Rest of world 50.1 78.6 (37.9) 18.5 (4.8) 284.4
1,889.0 1,882.8 183.9 247.5 3,886.9 4,349.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 47
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
Segmental analysis by geographical destination
Turnover
2004 2003
£m £m
United Kingdom 1,756.3 1,708.3
Europe 78.2 89.4
Rest of world 54.5 85.1
1,889.0 1,882.8
(a) An analysis of exceptional items is shown in note 4.
(b) Net operating assets are shown before the deduction of net debt, dividends payable, corporation tax and deferred tax 
of £3,277.3 million (2003: £3,319.9 million).
(c) The other segment comprises Powermarque up to date of disposal, AWG Rail and head office costs.
(d) All intersegmental trading originates from the United Kingdom.
(e) The joint venture results are within the Developments and Commercial Services, Government Services and International
Services segments and are stated after exceptional items of £1.0 million (2003: £3.6 million). The group share of joint
venture net assets at 31 March 2004 was £1.7 million (2003: £9.9 million).
Discontinued operations 
The group has changed its geographical nature and focus and has sold both the major water and wastewater operations in
Chile and the Czech Republic and also its process engineering business in Sweden. It is selling or closing most of the remaining
International businesses such that it is now an almost wholly UK-based group. Although decisions, including detailed plans,
were made to sell or close almost all the remaining international businesses during the year, these actions are still in progress
and accordingly, the results of operations not yet sold are included in continuing operations. The analyses presented above
include the following amounts in respect of operations discontinued during the year:
Total
operating
profit/(loss)
before
exceptional Profit/
items and (loss)
Sales to third goodwill Exceptional Goodwill before 
parties(f) amortisation items amortisation interest
2004 £m £m £m £m £m
International segment:
Chile businesses (Rest of world) 26.3 10.1 (46.8) (1.3) (38.0)
Czech businesses (Europe) 50.0 8.7 (27.2) – (18.5)
Purac AB (Europe) 9.6 (0.5) (14.3) – (14.8)
Total Europe 59.6 8.2 (41.5) – (33.3)
Total discontinued operations 85.9 18.3 (88.3) (1.3) (71.3)
2003
International segment:
Chile businesses (Rest of world) 46.8 20.6 – (3.1) 17.5
Czech businesses (Europe) 59.0 13.0 – – 13.0
Purac AB (Europe) 13.8 (2.3) – – (2.3)
Total Europe 72.8 10.7 – – 10.7
Total discontinued operations 119.6 31.3 – (3.1) 28.2
(f) Sales to third parties by geographical destination and geographical origin are entirely within the area of operation of the
individual business as shown above. Notes to the financial statements continued
48 AWG Plc
3 Group operating costs
Total before
exceptional Exceptional 
items and items and 
Continuing Discontinued goodwill goodwill 
operations operations amortisation amortisation Total
2004 £m £m £m £m £m
Operating costs excluding depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment of goodwill:
Raw materials and consumables 115.4 10.7 126.1 – 126.1 
Other external charges 783.4 33.0 816.4 22.7 839.1
Staff costs (note 10) 343.4 16.2 359.6 – 359.6
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (14.2) – (14.2) – (14.2)
Own work capitalised (42.0) – (42.0) – (42.0)
Contribution to Anglian Water Trust fund 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Total operating costs (excluding depreciation 
and intangible asset amortisation) 1,187.0 59.9 1,246.9 22.7 1,269.6
Depreciation of tangible assets 178.7 7.7 186.4 – 186.4
Amortisation of deferred grants and contributions (5.9) – (5.9) – (5.9)
Depreciation net of amortisation of grants and contributions 172.8 7.7 180.5 – 180.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.7 – 0.7 13.5 14.2
Group operating costs 1,360.5 67.6 1,428.1 36.2 1,464.3
Staff costs for the year ended 31 March 2004 includes £30.3 million (2003: £32.3 million) of costs that have been capitalised 
as ‘own work capitalised’.
Of the exceptional items and goodwill amortisation above, £nil and £1.3 million respectively relate to discontinued operations.
Further details of the businesses classified as discontinued above can be found in note 15.
Total before
exceptional Exceptional 
items and items and 
Continuing Discontinued goodwill goodwill 
operations operations amortisation amortisation Total
2003 £m £m £m £m £m
Operating costs excluding depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment of goodwill:
Raw materials and consumables 152.2 13.0 165.2 – 165.2
Other external charges 735.7 40.8 776.5 46.8 823.3
Staff costs (note 10) 315.1 20.0 335.1 8.6 343.7
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (2.1) – (2.1) – (2.1)
Own work capitalised (44.9) – (44.9) – (44.9)
Dividends receivable from investments (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Contribution to Anglian Water Trust fund 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Total operating costs (excluding depreciation 
and intangible asset amortisation) 1,156.8 73.8 1,230.6 55.4 1,286.0
Depreciation of tangible assets 182.6 14.5 197.1 – 197.1
Amortisation of deferred grants and contributions (6.6) – (6.6) – (6.6)
Depreciation net of amortisation of grants and contributions 176.0 14.5 190.5 – 190.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.5 – 0.5 13.8 14.3
Impairment of goodwill – – – 4.4 4.4
Group operating costs 1,333.3 88.3 1,421.6 73.6 1,495.2
Of the exceptional items and goodwill amortisation above, £nil and £3.1 million respectively relate to discontinued operations. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 49
4 Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
2004 2003
£m £m
Restructuring and other costs 2.5 22.6
Asset impairments 17.7 11.1
Contract rectification costs 2.5 –
Refinancing project costs – 26.1
Goodwill amortisation 13.5 13.8
Charged against group operating profit 36.2 73.6
Joint venture impairments – 3.6
Loss on disposal and closure of businesses:
- Continuing 33.2 1.2
- Discontinued 88.3 –
121.5 1.2
Charged against profit before interest 157.7 78.4
Interest and finance charges – 38.0
Coupon enhancement – 32.0
Exceptional interest charge – 70.0
Total exceptional items and goodwill amortisation before tax 157.7 148.4
Tax credit thereon (4.2) (27.8)
Total exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 153.5 120.6
Total exceptional items and goodwill amortisation are analysed below:
Total exceptional items before tax 144.2 134.6
Tax credit thereon (4.2) (27.8)
Total exceptional items 140.0 106.8
Goodwill amortisation 13.5 13.8
Total exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 153.5 120.6
Restructuring and other costs of £2.5 million relate to expenditure on bid defence and Morrison litigation. Restructuring and
other costs of £22.6 million in 2003 were principally redundancy and restructuring costs, and also included bid defence and
Morrison litigation costs. 
The asset impairment provision of £17.7 million comprises £10.0 million in respect of development properties held in current
assets and £7.7 million for current assets in the international business relating to the continuing businesses in Thailand, South
Africa and Russia which have been written down to expected net realisable value. The impairment of £11.1 million in 2003
included £3.3 million for impairment of fixed asset investments, £4.4 million impairment of goodwill and £3.4 million of other
asset impairment.
Contract rectification costs of £2.5 million are in respect of adjudication of a claim in relation to Rockingham Motor Speedway.
The refinancing project costs of £26.1 million in 2003 related to the ring-fencing and refinancing of the regulated water business.
The loss on disposal and closure of continuing businesses of £33.2 million comprises the loss on disposal of Powermarque of
£5.6 million, provision for loss on closure of international businesses of £22.5 million (including goodwill previously eliminated
against reserves of £6.1 million, disposal costs of £5.2 million and joint venture closure costs of £1.0 million), and other closure
costs of £5.1 million (including closure costs of AWG Rail of £4.2 million). The loss on disposal and closure of £1.2 million in
2003 relates to the sale of three small businesses in that year.
The loss on disposal of discontinued businesses of £88.3 million relates to the international segment and is stated after
deducting unamortised goodwill of £39.0 million, goodwill previously eliminated against reserves of £9.5 million and disposal
costs of £10.6 million. 
The exceptional interest charge in 2003 of £70.0 million related to the ring-fencing and refinancing of the regulated water business. Notes to the financial statements continued
50 AWG Plc
5 Operating profit
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
Hire of plant and machinery 29.2 33.8
Other operating lease costs 11.1 8.3
Rentals receivable under operating leases (6.8) (17.2)
Research and development expenditure 1.7 1.9
Fees paid to the auditors:
– for statutory audit services (principal auditors only) 0.6 0.7
– for regulatory audit services 0.1 0.1
– total audit services 0.7 0.8
– for other assurance services 1.2 2.0
Total fees paid to the auditors 1.9 2.8
Fees paid to other accounting firms for other work 2.8 1.3
Fees paid to the auditors for other assurance services are primarily in respect of working capital reviews and other bid defence
related work. Fees paid to other accounting firms for other work comprise £0.9 million (2003: £0.5 million) for internal audit
work, £1.5 million (2003: £0.5 million) for legal advice and £0.4 million (2003: £0.3 million) for tax and other advice.
6 Interest payable (net)
2004 2003
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.3 6.6
Other loans including financing expenses and indexation of loan stock 264.7 219.3
Finance leases 10.3 10.4
Unwinding of discount on coupon enhancement provision (note 22) 0.4 0.7
Unwinding of discount on unfunded pension obligations (note 22) 2.4 2.4
Debt transfer and termination costs – 38.0
Creation of coupon enhancement provision – 32.0
278.1 309.4
Interest receivable (24.9) (27.6)
Group interest payable (net) 253.2 281.8
Share of joint venture interest payable (net) 10.5 8.1
Total interest payable (net) 263.7 289.9
7 Taxation
2004 2003
£m £m
The tax (credit)/charge for the year comprised:
UK tax – current year (credit)/charge (6.4) 15.7
UK tax – adjustments in respect of prior years (2.1) (13.5)
Overseas tax – 7.5
Tax on loss on ordinary activities (8.5) 9.7
Analysed as:
– before exceptional items (4.3) 37.5
– exceptional items (4.2) (27.8)
Tax (credit)/charge on loss on ordinary activities (8.5) 9.7
Tax (credit)/charge on loss on ordinary activities comprises:
UK corporation tax at 30 per cent (2003: 30 per cent) – 0.9
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2.1) (18.2)
Overseas taxation 2.0 5.5
Total current tax (0.1) (11.8) Annual Report and Accounts 2004 51
7 Taxation (continued)
2004 2003
Deferred tax (note 23) £m £m
Charge for timing differences arising in year 16.7 7.9
Impact of discounting on deferred tax liability (23.3) (8.3)
Impact of (increase)/decrease in discount rates (3.5) 15.7
Adjustments in respect of prior years – 4.7
Total deferred tax (10.1) 20.0
Total group taxation (10.2) 8.2
Share of joint venture taxation 1.7 1.5
Tax on loss on ordinary activities (8.5) 9.7
Based on capital investment plans for Anglian Water Services Limited for the current regulatory period, the group expects to
continue to be able to claim tax relief on capital expenditure in excess of depreciation for the remainder of the regulatory period. 
The post-tax yield to maturity on UK government bonds is used to discount the gross deferred tax liability of the group.
Movements in the discount rates gave rise to a credit of £3.5 million (2003: charge of £15.7 million) in the year. If all UK 
gilt rates moved by 0.25 per cent, the tax charge would move by between £10.0 million and £15.0 million.
Adjustments in respect of prior years arise from the agreement of open tax computations.
Factors affecting tax credit for the year (including exceptional items)
The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30 per cent). 
The differences are explained below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation (79.8) (42.4)
Tax on loss on ordinary activities at the standard UK rate of tax (30 per cent) (23.9) (12.7)
Adjusted for effects of:
Items not deductible for tax purposes 44.7 23.0
Accounting for depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 0.4 0.2
Capital allowances for the year in excess of depreciation (18.7) (4.4)
Short-term timing differences 0.7 (1.4)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (2.1) (18.2)
Losses which cannot be relieved in the year 1.8 3.5
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (1.3) (0.3)
Share of joint venture taxation (1.7) (1.5)
Current tax credit for the year (0.1) (11.8)
8 Dividends and other payments to shareholders
No cash dividends were paid on ordinary shares during the year.
AWG Plc made the following issues of 0.1 pence redeemable shares during the year:
(a) 177,451 million redeemable shares were issued on 16 June 2003 at the rate of 1,000 redeemable shares per ordinary share
held, equivalent to £1.00 per share. The value of shares issued was £177.4 million. Shareholders are given the opportunity 
to redeem at par the redeemable shares twice per annum. During the period 169,388 million shares were redeemed
resulting in a return of £169.4 million of cash to shareholders.
(b) 57,494 million (23 September 2002: 88,291 million) redeemable shares were issued on 4 August 2003 at the rate of 324
(23 September 2002: 312) redeemable shares per ordinary share held, equivalent to 32.4 pence (23 September 2002: 31.2
pence) per ordinary share, with a total value of £57.5 million (23 September 2002: £88.3 million).
(c) 19,987 million (6 January 2003: 24,054 million) redeemable shares were issued on 15 December 2003 at the rate of 140 
(6 January 2003: 136) redeemable shares per ordinary share held, equivalent to 14.0 pence (6 January 2003: 13.6 pence) 
per ordinary share. The value of shares issued was £20.0 million (6 January 2003: £24.1 million).
Shareholders are given the option to redeem at par the redeemable shares so acquired twice per annum. During the year a total
of 79,226 million (2003: 110,586 million) shares were redeemed, leaving 16,092 million (2003: 9,774 million) redeemable shares
in issue at 31 March 2004.
During the year a dividend of £0.3 million was paid on the redeemable shares (2003: £0.3 million).
It is proposed that a further issue of redeemable shares will be made in June 2004 at the rate of 332 redeemable shares 
per ordinary share held, equivalent to 33.2 pence per ordinary share. Notes to the financial statements continued
52 AWG Plc
9 Earnings per share
2004 2003
Basic
Loss for the financial year £(77.5m) £(61.6m)
Less: Redeemable share dividends £(0.3m) £(0.3m)
Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders £(77.8m) £(61.9m)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 149.7m 234.4m
Basic loss per share (52.0)p (26.4)p
Basic (before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation)
Basic loss per share (52.0)p (26.4)p
Exceptional items (after tax) 93.6p 45.5p
Basic earnings per share (before exceptional items) 41.6p 19.1p
Goodwill amortisation 9.0p 5.9p
Basic earnings per share (before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) 50.6p 25.0p
On 13 June 2003 AWG Plc consolidated its share capital by issuing 201 ordinary shares of 19.9 pence each for every 250
existing ordinary shares of 16 pence each. For the period from 1 April 2003 to 13 June 2003 the weighted average number 
of shares in issue was 177.3 million, and for the period from 13 June 2003 to 31 March 2004 the weighted average number 
of shares in issue was 142.8 million. The overall weighted average number of shares in issue was therefore 149.7 million.
At 31 March 2004 there were 142.9 million ordinary shares in issue (2003: 177.4 million).
In accordance with FRS 14 Earnings per Share the diluted earnings per share is taken as being equal to basic earnings per 
share as the group recorded a loss from continuing operations and the effect of including the options is anti-dilutive. 
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation is disclosed as the Directors consider it to be an
appropriate reflection of the group’s normalised earnings performance. It includes the benefit of a £2.1 million (2003: £13.5
million) prior year tax credit.
10 Employee information
2004 2003 2003 2003
Before
exceptional Exceptional
Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m
Staff costs:
Wages and salaries 310.7 288.3 6.3 294.6
Social security costs 28.9 28.7 0.7 29.4
Pension costs (note 27) 20.0 18.1 1.6 19.7
359.6 335.1 8.6 343.7
Pension costs are stated after crediting £1.5 million (2003: £1.7 million) in respect of the amortisation of an actuarial surplus 
in the main UK pension scheme.
Average number of full time equivalent persons employed:
2004 2003
UK water and wastewater 3,492 3,588
Utility Services 2,494 2,478
Government Services 2,713 1,108
Construction Services 1,971 1,648
Developments and Commercial Services 146 223
International Services 1,669 3,319
Other 338 416
12,823 12,780
The numbers above include 1,588 full time equivalent persons employed outside the UK (2003: 3,006). Details of Directors’
emoluments and interests, which form part of these financial statements, are included in the remuneration report on pages 
29 to 34. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 53
11 Profit of parent company
AWG Plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. Profit for
the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company is £310.4 million (2003: £120.7 million).
12 Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill Licences Total
£m £m £m
The group
Cost
At 1 April 2003 335.9 14.1 350.0
Exchange adjustments 3.3 (2.0) 1.3
Adjustments to provisional goodwill (0.3) – (0.3)
Disposals of subsidiary undertakings (47.2) – (47.2)
At 31 March 2004 291.7 12.1 303.8
Amortisation
At 1 April 2003 90.8 0.5 91.3
Exchange adjustments 0.5 (0.1) 0.4
Charge for the year 13.5 0.7 14.2
Disposals of subsidiary undertakings (8.2) – (8.2)
At 31 March 2004 96.6 1.1 97.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2004 195.1 11.0 206.1
At 31 March 2003 245.1 13.6 258.7
Intangible assets principally comprise goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and premiums paid to acquire
unincorporated businesses. Goodwill is amortised over 20 years, being the Directors’ best estimate of its useful economic life. 
The adjustments to provisional goodwill of £0.3 million relates to deferred consideration and fair value adjustments for the
acquisition (27 March 2003) of the repair and maintenance contracts for Birmingham City Council and four London boroughs.
A further £37.9 million of goodwill (2003: £53.5 million) arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been eliminated
directly against reserves in prior years. The movement in the year of £15.6 million represents goodwill previously eliminated
against reserves, now reinstated and written off against profit for the year in respect of disposals and closures of businesses.
The company
There are no intangible assets in the company.  Notes to the financial statements continued
54 AWG Plc
13 Tangible fixed assets
Vehicles,
Land and Infrastructure Operational plant and
buildings assets structures equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
The group
Cost
At 1 April 2003 88.7 2,104.5 2,444.6 1,343.5 5,981.3
Exchange adjustments 0.7 (8.4) 15.7 7.2 15.2
Additions 0.7 96.3 93.0 117.1 307.1
Disposals (0.4) (5.3) (2.2) (27.0) (34.9)
Disposals of subsidiary undertakings (22.5) (41.7) (235.5) (129.9) (429.6)
At 31 March 2004 67.2 2,145.4 2,315.6 1,310.9 5,839.1
Grants and contributions
At 1 April 2003 – 162.5 – – 162.5
Additions – 10.0 – – 10.0
At 31 March 2004 – 172.5 – – 172.5
Depreciation
At 1 April 2003 36.1 365.0 657.1 644.3 1,702.5
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (2.8) 4.7 (0.2) 1.8
Charge for the year 3.0 28.3 90.0 65.1 186.4
Disposals (0.1) (1.5) (2.1) (15.9) (19.6)
Disposals of subsidiary undertakings (7.6) (1.7) (7.1) (20.3) (36.7)
At 31 March 2004 31.5 387.3 742.6 673.0 1,834.4
Net book value
At 31 March 2004 35.7 1,585.6 1,573.0 637.9 3,832.2
At 31 March 2003 52.6 1,577.0 1,787.5 699.2 4,116.3
Tangible fixed assets of the group at 31 March 2004 include £216.5 million of assets in the course of construction (2003:
£247.7 million) and also include land of £16.4 million (2003: £19.9 million), which is not subject to depreciation. The group’s
interests in land and buildings are almost entirely freehold.
The net book value of the group’s tangible fixed assets held under finance leases at 31 March 2004 is £147.9 million (2003:
£168.4 million). Depreciation charged on assets held under finance leases during the year ended 31 March 2004 amounted 
to £15.3 million (2003: £23.9 million).
Included within the amounts shown above for vehicles, plant and equipment are assets held as lessor for use in operating 
leases with a cost of £0.4 million (2003: £60.6 million) and accumulated depreciation of £0.4 million (2003: £28.8 million). 
The movement during the year related to the disposal of the group’s vehicle leasing subsidiary, Powermarque Limited.
The company
There are no tangible fixed assets in the company.
Capital commitments
The group
The group has a substantial long-term investment programme, which includes expenditure to meet regulatory requirements,
shortfalls in performance and condition and to provide for new demand and growth. The commitments shown below reflect
only the value of orders placed at 31 March 2004.
Amounts contracted for, but not provided for in the financial statements at 31 March 2004 are £80.0 million 
(2003: £68.4 million). 
The company
There are no such commitments in the company. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 55
14 Investments
JointAssociated Own
ventures undertakings shares Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
The group
Shares, loans and deposits
At cost or amount under equity method of accounting
At 1 April 2003 22.9 0.2 0.6 10.2 33.9
Additions 1.1 – 0.1 0.3 1.5
Loss for the year (5.5) – – – (5.5)
Disposals (2.8) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (3.3)
Transfer to provisions 3.7––– 3.7
At 31 March 2004 19.4 0.1 0.4 10.4 30.3
Provision for impairment 
At 1 April 2003 3.6 – – 7.1 10.7
Charge in the year 1.0––– 1.0
At 31 March 2004 4.6 – – 7.1 11.7
Net book value
At 31 March 2004 14.8 0.1 0.4 3.3 18.6
As 31 March 2003 19.3 0.2 0.6 3.1 23.2
The loss for the year of joint ventures comprises operating profits of £10.1 million (2003: £7.5 million) less interest 
payable of £10.5 million (2003: £8.1 million), tax charge of £1.7 million (2003: £1.5 million) and dividends of £3.4 million
(2003: £4.0 million).
Own shares
Anglian Water LTIP Limited and the Morrison Construction Group Employee Trust hold shares in AWG Plc for subsequent transfer
to Executive Directors and certain senior management under the Long-Term Incentive Plan. At 31 March 2004 the schemes held
68,158 shares in AWG Plc (2003: 106,747 shares) with an original cost of £0.4 million and a market value of £0.4 million (2003:
£0.6 million).
Principal associated undertakings
Set out below is an analysis of the group’s principal associated undertakings at 31 March 2004.
Country of Class of Proportion of Accounting
incorporation Activity share shares held year end
Strathclyde Business Park Scotland Development Ordinary £1 31% 28 February
(Developments) Limited of land and
buildings 
This undertaking principally operates in its country of incorporation and is held by a subsidiary of AWG Plc. Notes to the financial statements continued
56 AWG Plc
14 Investments (continued)
Joint ventures
Set out below is an analysis of the group’s principal joint ventures at 31 March 2004.
Country of Proportion of
Undertaking incorporation Activity shares held(ii)
Property Developments
Morrison Property Solutions (Birmingham 
Childrens Hospital) Limited (i) England Development of land and buildings 50%
Gainsborough AWG Limited England Development of land and buildings 50%
Morrison Merlin Limited England Development of land and buildings 50%
Northwood Residential Limited (iii) Ireland Development of residential properties 40%
AWG Outlets (Rathdowney) Limited (iii) Ireland Development of land and buildings 50%
Private Finance Initiative Projects
Catchment Moray Limited Scotland Financing and operation of wastewater treatment plant 33%
Alpha Schools (West Lothian) Limited Scotland Financing and facilities management of school premises 50%
Morrison Edison Investments Limited Scotland Development of land and buildings 50%
Facilities Management
AWG Cleanaway Limited 
(formerly Morrison Serviceteam Limited) England Maintenance and repair services 50%
These undertakings principally operate in their country of incorporation, and are held by subsidiaries of AWG Plc.
(i) The accounting year end for all the above undertakings is 31 March, with the exception of Morrison Property Solutions
(Birmingham Childrens Hospital) Limited which has an accounting year end of 31 December.
(ii) Unless otherwise stated the class of shares held are ordinary shares of £1 each.
(iii) The class of shares held is one Euro each.
Other Investments
Other investments include a 4.35 per cent investment in Aguas Argentinas, a consortium which operates the water and
wastewater system in Buenos Aires, Argentina and a 4.64 per cent investment in Rockingham Motor Speedway. The investment 
in Rockingham Motor Speedway was fully provided for in 2003 and the investment in Aguas Argentinas of £3.8 million was fully
provided for in 2002. The net book value at 31 March 2004 included £2.9 million of loans and £0.4 million of shares.
The company Shares
in subsidiary Own
undertakings Shares Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2003 1,998.3 0.6 1,998.9
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Disposals – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 March 2004 1,998.3 0.4 1,998.7
Provisions for impairment
At 1 April 2003 and at 31 March 2004 4.6 – 4.6
Total
At 31 March 2004 1,993.7 0.4 1,994.1
At 31 March 2003 1,993.7 0.6 1,994.3
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group are listed in note 30.  Annual Report and Accounts 2004 57
15 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings
During the year the group disposed of its interests in the ordinary share capital of the following subsidiary undertakings:
2004 2003
Profit/(loss)
before interest, Profit/(loss) before
exceptional items and interest, exceptional
goodwill amortisation items and goodwill
up to date of disposal amortisation
Name of subsidiary Investment held £m £m Date of disposal
ESVAL 49.8% 8.8 17.5 12 November 2003
SmVAK 54.3% 7.6 11.3 26 February 2004
VAK JC 95.2% (0.1) 1.3 18 December 2003
VAK Beroun 58.7% 1.2 0.4 18 December 2003
Purac AB 100.0% (0.5) (2.3) 19 December 2003
Discontinued operations 17.0 28.2
Powermarque Limited 100.0% 1.4 3.6 19 December 2003
Morrison Merlin Limited 100.0% – – 30 May 2003
18.4 31.8
Details of the net assets disposed of and the related sale proceeds are disclosed in note (c) to the cash flow statement. 
The group disposed of its entire share holding in all of the above entities with the exception of Morrison Merlin Limited, 
where the group has retained a 50 per cent holding. Morrison Merlin Limited is now treated as a joint venture (see note 14).
16 Stock
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials and consumables 8.6 7.3 – –
Work in progress 127.4 196.0 – –
136.0 203.3 – –
Work in progress includes long-term contract balances of £307.2 million (2003: £268.9 million) less applicable payments 
on account of £293.0 million (2003: £254.3 million).
The current replacement value of stock does not materially exceed the historical costs stated above. Notes to the financial statements continued
58 AWG Plc
17 Debtors
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Amount falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 140.4 169.1 – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts 64.3 71.2 – –
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 91.1 77.1 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 73.0 16.8
Other debtors 42.5 63.4 17.3 15.9
Prepayments and accrued income 74.3 111.0 – –
412.6 491.8 90.3 32.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Trade debtors – 0.4 – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts 1.8 0.8 – –
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 11.1 19.5 – –
Prepaid pension contributions 58.0 40.6 – –
Other debtors 0.7 9.5 – –
71.6 70.8 – –
484.2 562.6 90.3 32.7
Prepayments and accrued income as at 31 March 2004 includes water and wastewater income not yet billed of £51.2 million
(2003: £78.9 million).
18 Current asset investments
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Money market investments – 18.8 – –
19 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 1.4 3.2 – –
Current portion of long-term loans (note 20) 23.9 25.0 – –
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 20.6 32.3 – –
Short-term borrowings 45.9 60.5 – –
Trade creditors 220.7 249.6 – –
Payments on account in excess of contract value 20.2 14.9 – –
Receipts in advance 54.6 57.3 – –
Amounts due to joint ventures and associates 28.2 11.9 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 6.2 12.6
Corporation tax 5.5 8.6 – –
Other creditors 51.0 67.3 0.2 0.1
Other taxation and social security 7.9 10.7 – –
Accruals 215.4 218.9 0.1 3.7
Deferred grants and contributions 5.9 5.6 – –
Deferred consideration for acquisition – 5.2 – –
Other creditors 609.4 650.0 6.5 16.4
Receipts in advance include £49.6 million (2003: £52.5 million) relating to amounts received from customers for water and
sewerage charges in respect of the following year. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 59
20 Loans, other borrowings and financial instruments
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Loans and other borrowings
£100m 12.375% Fixed 2014 (a), (h) 100.0 100.0 – –
£200m 6.875% Fixed 2023 (a), (h) 197.0 196.9 – –
£200m 6.625% Fixed 2029 (a), (h) 198.6 198.5 – –
£100m 5.5% Index Linked 2008 (a), (c), (h) 153.6 149.5 – –
£150m 4.125% Index Linked 2020 (a), (c), (h) 163.5 158.8 – –
EUR 350m 5.375% Fixed 2009 (h) 229.2 229.2 – –
USD 55m 6.85% Private Placement 2006 (a), (b), (h) 35.8 35.8 – –
£150m 8.25% Fixed 2006 (h) 149.7 149.6 – –
USD 25m 7.07% Private Placement 2009 (a), (h) 16.0 16.0 – –
USD 4m 7.21% Private Placement 2006 (b), (h) 1.6 2.2 – –
USD 40m 6.57% Private Placement 2005 (h) 28.4 28.3 – –
USD 35m 6.65% Private Placement 2006 (h) 24.8 24.8 – –
USD 100m 7.01% Private Placement 2008 (b), (h) 70.8 70.7 – –
USD 23m 7.13% Private Placement 2009 (h) 16.3 16.3 – –
USD 195m 7.23% Private Placement 2011 (b), (h) 137.9 137.8 – –
EUR 650m 4.625% Fixed 2013 452.1 – – –
USD 400m LIBOR plus 0.4% 2007 (h) 252.9 252.4 – –
EUR 115m EURIBOR plus 2.8% 2010/2037 (g), (h) 73.2 73.1 – –
£246m 6.293% Fixed 2030 (h) 243.4 243.3 – –
£275m 7.882% Fixed 2012/2037 (g), (h) 272.0 271.9 – –
£180m LIBOR plus 1.25% 2009/2014 (d), (g), (h) 178.4 178.3 – –
£100m LIBOR plus 2.8% 2010/2037 (d), (g), (h) 98.9 98.9 – –
£50m LIBOR plus 1.2% 2007/2012 (d), (g), (h) 49.6 49.5 – –
£250m 5.837% Fixed 2022 (h) 246.3 246.1 – –
£200m 3.07% Index Linked 2032 (c), (h) 205.9 200.0 – –
£60m 3.07% Index Linked 2032 (c), (h) 61.8 60.0 – –
£75m 3.666% Index Linked 2024 (c), (h) 77.8 75.6 – –
Finance Leases (h) 163.1 195.8 – –
£150m Index Linked Swap 2024 (d), (h) 6.7 2.6 – –
£175m Index Linked Swap 2030 (d), (h) 7.8 3.2 – –
£258m Index Linked Swap 2013 (d) 3.8 – – –
USD 13.5m CFBM plus 0.5% Bank Loan 2008 – 6.2 – –
UF 0.7m 7% Bonds 2021 (c) – 10.0 – –
UF 1.0m 7% Bonds 2008 (c) – 14.6 – –
UF 1.5m 5.5% Bonds 2010 (c) – 21.1 – –
UF 2.5m 6% Bonds 2027 (c) – 34.6 –
UF 1.8m TAB plus 0.8% 2007 (c) – 38.7 – –
USD 5m Revolving Credit Facilities 2004 2.7 3.2 – –
Interest-free Czech Government Loans 2008–2012 – 2.8 – –
THB 301.8m Bank of Asia 2005 4.1 4.5 – –
CNY 19.2m Industrial & Commercial Bank of China 2005 0.6 1.1 – –
CNY 115.2m Industrial & Commercial Bank of China 2012 7.2 8.8 – –
Morrison Loan Notes LIBID minus 0.5% 2007 10.1 10.5 – –
Revolving Multi-Currency Credit Facilities 1.0 1.0 – –
Other loan notes LIBOR minus 1% 1.9 9.8 – –
£290m LIBOR plus 2% 2052 (due to AWG Group Limited) – – 290.0 290.0
£501m LIBOR plus 2% 2052 (due to AWG Group Limited) – – 501.0 501.0
Other loans (e) 0.1 0.1 – –
Total loans and other borrowings 3,944.6 3,632.1 791.0 791.0
Less amounts included in creditors falling due 
within one year excluding bank overdrafts (note 19) (44.5) (57.3) – –
Loans and other borrowings falling due after more than one year 3,900.1 3,574.8 791.0 791.0 Notes to the financial statements continued
60 AWG Plc
20 Loans, other borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
(a) Coupons on these instruments were increased to the levels shown from 30 July 2002 following their transfer from AWG
Group Limited to Anglian Water Services Financing Plc as part of the group’s refinancing project.
(b) Nominal values of these instruments were decreased to the levels shown on 30 July 2002 as part of the group’s refinancing
project. 
(c) The value of the capital and interest elements of the Index Linked Loan Stock, instruments denominated in Unidad de
Fomento (UF) and Index Linked Swaps (see (d) below) are linked to movements in the Retail Price Index or its Chilean
equivalent. The increase in the capital value during the year of £32.2 million (2003: £21.3 million) has been taken 
to the profit and loss account as part of interest payable.
(d) Index Linked Swaps hedge the instruments (or element thereof) as indicated. The capital value of these swaps is therefore
included in loans and other borrowings as shown.
(e) The unspecified loans and borrowings are at fixed rates of interest. 
(f) Of the above total, £2,721.6 million (2003: £2,763.1 million) is repayable wholly after five years. £84.8 million (2003: £168.9
million) is repayable by installments, £64.8 million (2003: £120.6 million) of which fall due after more than five years.
(g) Legal maturity of these instruments is the second of the two years quoted. Coupons ‘step-up’ is in the first of the 
years quoted.
(h) Under a security agreement dated 30 July 2002 between Anglian Water Services Financing Plc (AWSF), Anglian Water
Services Limited (AWS), Anglian Water Services Overseas Holdings Limited (AWSOH), Anglian Water Services Holdings Limited
(AWSH) and Deutsche Trustee Company Limited a fixed and floating charge was created over the assets of Anglian Water
Services Limited to the extent permissible under the Water Industry Act 1991. In addition there is a fixed charge over the
issued share capital of AWS, AWSOH and AWSF. At 31 March 2004 this charge applies to £3,907.8 million (2003: £3,447.6
million) of the group debt listed above.
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 93.5 87.0 16.1 10.4
Between one and two years 98.8 80.5 – –
Between two and five years 723.6 632.4 – –
After five years 3,104.0 2,895.5 791.0 791.0
4,019.9 3,695.4 807.1 801.4
The group analysis is net of issue costs totalling £29.1 million (2003: £30.0 million).
Included above are amounts due under finance leases of £20.6 million (2003: £32.3 million) payable within one year, 
£23.7 million (2003: £25.7 million) payable between one to two years, £56.6 million (2003: £76.2 million) payable between 
two and five years and £62.2 million (2003: £61.6 million) payable after five years. 
In addition to loans, other borrowings and finance leases, the above analysis includes other financial liabilities (including
overdrafts, redeemable shares, provisions, long-term creditors and long-term accruals) totalling £75.3 million (2003: £63.3
million), of which £49.0 million (2003: £29.7 million) falls due in less than one year. Company only figures include £16.1 million
(2003: £10.4 million) all of which falls due in less than one year.
Borrowing facilities
2004 2003
£m £m
The group has the following unused committed borrowing facilities:
Expiring within one year 304.0 283.0
Expiring between one and two years 350.0 –
Expiring between two and five years – 350.0
654.0 633.0 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 61
20 Loans, other borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
Financial instruments disclosures
The group’s policies on management of financial risk are disclosed in the performance review in the treasury management section
on pages 8 and 9. These disclosures form part of this note. 
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from this note, except for the comments on currency exposures in the
aforementioned sections of the performance review.
Currency exposures
The group has no material unhedged monetary assets or liabilities denominated in a currency different from the local currency 
of the particular operation.
The group has entered into swap arrangements to hedge all significant investments denominated in currencies other than
Sterling.
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges
2004 2003
Gains Losses Net Gains Losses Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised at 1 April 13.6 (61.8) (48.2) 22.4 (8.2) 14.2
Reversal of items unrecognised at 1 April (0.2) 18.5 18.3 (22.4) 4.4 (18.0)
Recognised during the year (0.1) - (0.1) (6.4) 3.8 (2.6)
Arising during the year 18.6 (23.0) (4.4) 20.0 (61.8) (41.8)
Unrecognised at 31 March 31.9 (66.3) (34.4) 13.6 (61.8) (48.2)
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself
recognised. The total net unrecognised loss of £34.4 million (2003: £48.2 million) principally represents the opportunity cost 
of protecting the group’s interest charge against movements in interest rates at a time when interest rates were higher than 
at 31 March 2004. 
Of the unrecognised gains and losses at 31 March 2004, a net gain of £3.2 million (2003: net loss of £3.3 million) is expected
to be included in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the balance in future years. At 31 March
2004 and 31 March 2003, gains and losses on forward exchange contracts taken out as hedges of sales and purchase
transactions were not material.
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
2004 2003
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Current asset investments –– 18.8 18.8
Cash at bank and in hand 755.4 755.4 395.4 395.4
Short-term borrowings (45.4) (45.9) (60.5) (60.5)
Long-term borrowings (3,759.4) (4,094.7) (3,553.7) (3,922.7)
Currency and interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts (141.2) (171.9) (21.1) (50.6)
Net debt (3,190.6) (3,557.1) (3,221.1) (3,619.6)
Fixed asset investments 3.3 3.3 3.1 3.1
Long-term debtors excluding prepaid pension obligations (note 17) 13.6 13.6 30.2 30.2
Provisions excluding deferred tax, unfunded pension obligations 
and joint venture net liabilities (note 22) (54.2) (54.2) (40.2) (40.2)
Long-term trade creditors, accruals and deferred income (note 21) (3.6) (3.6) (10.1) (10.1)
Redeemable shares (non-equity) (note 25) (16.1) (16.1) (9.8) (9.8)
(3,247.6) (3,614.1) (3,247.9) (3,646.4)
In accordance with the group’s accounting policy, loans and other borrowings are recorded using the contracted rates implicit 
in the financial instruments used to hedge the group’s exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates. Similarly, interest 
is charged to the profit and loss account based on the contracted interest rates. The book values assigned to derivative
instruments are separately analysed from the book value of the underlying loans in the table above. Notes to the financial statements continued
62 AWG Plc
20 Loans, other borrowings and financial instruments (continued)
The estimated fair values of quoted loans and other borrowings are based on period-end mid-market quoted prices. The fair
value of derivative financial instruments is determined by calculating (with reference to market exchange and interest rates at 
31 March) the net gain or loss that would have arisen if these contracts had been terminated at 31 March. Fair values of other
loans and borrowings are estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates. The fair value of the group’s cash, fixed asset
investments, long-term debtors, provisions, redeemable shares, long-term creditors and accruals has been estimated as not
materially different from book value.
Currency and interest rate analysis of net financial assets/(liabilities) at 31 March 2004
Fixed rate
Weighted Weighted
Index Floating Fixed Interest average average
Total linked rate rate free interest years to
£m £m £m £m £m rate maturity
Sterling (3,929.8) (1,265.9) (207.2) (2,456.7) – 6.9% 11.2
US Dollar (2.7) – (2.7) – –
Chilean Peso ––– ––
Other currencies (13.5) – (13.5) – –
Total borrowings (3,946.0) (1,265.9) (223.4) (2,456.7) –
Sterling 746.9 – 746.9 – –
US Dollar –––––
Chilean Peso –––––
Other currencies 8.5 – 8.5 – –
Cash, deposits and current asset investments 755.4 – 755.4 – –
Net debt (3,190.6) (1,265.9) 532.0 (2,456.7) –
Fixed asset investments 3.3 – 2.9 – 0.4
Long-term debtors 13.6 – 1.8 5.8 6.0 12.8% 23.6
Provisions (54.2) – – – (54.2)
Other financial liabilities (3.6) – – – (3.6)
Redeemable shares (non-equity) (16.1) – – – (16.1)
Net financial liabilities (3,247.6) (1,265.9) 536.7 (2,450.9) (67.5)
Currency and interest rate analysis of net financial assets/(liabilities) at 31 March 2003
Fixed rate
Weighted Weighted
Index Floating Fixed Interest average average
Total linked rate rate free interest years to
£m £m £m £m £m rate maturity
Sterling (3,486.5) (976.4) (21.5) (2,488.5) (0.1) 6.9% 12.1
US Dollar (3.2) – (3.2) – –
Chilean Peso (125.2) (119.0) (6.2) – –
Other currencies (20.4) – (17.6) – (2.8)
Total borrowings (3,635.3) (1,095.4) (48.5) (2,488.5) (2.9)
Sterling 387.2 – 387.2 – –
US Dollar 0.1 – – – 0.1
Chilean Peso 3.7 – 3.7 – –
Other currencies 23.2 – 23.2 – –
Cash, deposits and current asset investments 414.2 – 414.1 – 0.1
Net debt (3,221.1) (1,095.4) 365.6 (2,488.5) (2.8)
Fixed asset investments 3.1 – – 2.6 0.5 11.0% 20.5
Long-term debtors 30.2 – 0.8 10.1 19.3 10.3% 15.2
Provisions (40.2) – – – (40.2)
Other financial liabilities (10.1) – – – (10.1)
Redeemable shares (non-equity) (9.8) – – – (9.8)
Net financial liabilities (3,247.9) (1,095.4) 366.4 (2,475.8) (43.1)
The above tables reflect the net position after hedging arrangements. Fixed rate loans are those for which the interest rate 
was fixed for more than 12 months at the year end. Floating rate cash, investments and long-term debtors earn interest based 
on LIBID for the relevant currency. Floating rate borrowings incur interest based on LIBOR. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 63
21 Other creditors falling due after more than one year
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Trade creditors 3.6 10.1 – –
Deferred grants and contributions 90.0 87.4 – –
93.6 97.5 – –
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Unfunded Business Joint
Deferred pension Restructuring closures and Contract venture net Coupon
tax obligations costs disposals and other liabilities enhancement Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
The group
At 1 April 2003 90.2 26.1 2.4 – 8.3 9.4 29.5 165.9
Charge/(credit) for the year (10.1) – (0.6) 17.9 7.3 – – 14.5
Transfer from investments – – – – – 3.7 – 3.7
Unwinding of discount (note 6) – 2.4 – – – – 0.4 2.8
Utilised in the year – (2.0) (1.8) – (4.8) – (4.4) (13.0)
At 31 March 2004 80.1 26.5 – 17.9 10.8 13.1 25.5 173.9
The deferred tax provision is analysed in note 23 and the effect of discounting on deferred tax is shown in note 7.
The provision for pension obligations relates to the cost of unfunded pension enhancements. These pension payments are
expected to be made over several future accounting periods. The provision is determined using actuarial assumptions based 
on those used for the valuation of the group’s pension scheme and has been discounted at a rate of nine per cent.
The restructuring provision related to redundancy and other costs arising from the redundancy programme announced in the
previous year, which has been utilised in the year.
Business closure and disposal provisions relate to cost of closure and disposals mainly in the international business which are
expected to crystallise over a period of approximately one year.
The contract and other provisions comprise potential warranty and certification costs of £6.3 million which are expected 
to crystallise over a period of approximately three years and £4.5 million in respect of insurance claims against the group 
incurred but not reported.
The provision for joint venture liabilities represents the aggregate amount of net liabilities at the balance sheet date. Movements
in the group’s share of joint venture assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 14.
The coupon enhancement provision of £25.5 million relates to coupon enhancement and other related costs incurred on 
the transfer of debt from AWG Group Limited to Anglian Water Services Financing Plc at the end of the refinancing exercise. 
The provision is expected to be utilised over the next 25 years and has been discounted at 6.1 per cent which represents the
adjusted credit risk of additional coupon payments following the transfer of debt from AWG Group Limited. 
Restructuring
costs
£m
The company
At 1 April 2003 0.6
Utilised in the year (0.6)
At 31 March 2004 – Notes to the financial statements continued
64 AWG Plc
23 Deferred taxation
The total tax charge or credit in the current year includes provisions for discounted deferred taxation. Consequently, changes 
in the medium-term and long-term interest rates used to discount deferred taxation assets and liabilities can affect the amount
of deferred taxation charged or credited in the profit and loss account.
The group’s deferred tax liability is stated net of Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) recoverable. If changes in the tax legislation 
were introduced which restricted the ability of companies to use ACT, this asset may no longer be recoverable and in this event 
an additional charge would arise in the profit and loss account of £66.4 million.
£m
At 1 April 2003 90.2
Deferred tax credited to the profit and loss account (note 7) (10.1)
At 31 March 2004 80.1
2004 2003
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 742.3 728.9
Short-term timing differences (21.9) (20.9)
Surplus ACT asset (149.8) (149.8)
Undiscounted provision for deferred tax 570.6 558.2
Discount (490.5) (468.0)
Discounted provision for deferred tax 80.1 90.2
The following are deferred tax assets that are not recognised in the accounts:
Tax losses carried forward (10.6) (35.9)
Deferred tax in Czech companies – (7.2)
(10.6) (43.1)
The tax losses carried forward relate to losses which are not eligible for group relief. As they exist in companies where future
profits are uncertain and no deferred tax liabilities exist, no asset has been recognised.
24 Commitments under operating leases
At 31 March 2004 the group had commitments to make payments during the next 12 months under non-cancellable operating
leases which expire as follows:
2004 2003
Land and Land and
Buildings Other Buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
The group
Within one year 0.8 3.2 0.4 1.1
Between one and five years 0.9 9.6 5.5 8.1
After five years 4.4 1.9 4.8 –
6.1 14.7 10.7 9.2
The company
The company had no such commitments. Annual Report and Accounts 2004 65
25 Share capital of AWG Plc
Company and Group
2004 2003
£m £m
Authorised
2,763.7 million (2003: 3,437.5 million) ordinary 
shares of 19.9 pence (2003: 16 pence) each 550.0 550.0
1,000,000 million redeemable shares of 0.1 pence each 1,000.0 1,000.0
1,550.0 1,550.0
Allotted, issued and fully paid
142.9 million (2003: 177.4 million) ordinary 
shares of 19.9 pence (2003: 16 pence) each 28.5 28.4
16,091.8 million (2003: 9,774.3 million) redeemable shares of 0.1 pence each 16.1 9.8
44.6 38.2
On 13 June 2003 AWG Plc consolidated its share capital by issuing 201 ordinary shares of 19.9 pence each for every 250
existing ordinary shares of 16 pence each. At the same time AWG Plc issued to shareholders 177,451 million redeemable shares,
a return of capital to shareholders of £177.4 million.
On 4 August 2003 57,494 million (23 September 2002: 88,291 million) redeemable shares were issued to ordinary shareholders. 
On 15 December 2003 19,987 million (6 January 2003: 24,054 million) redeemable shares were issued to ordinary shareholders.
The holders of the redeemable shares are entitled, in priority to any distribution to ordinary shareholders, to be paid 
a redeemable preferential dividend per share at a rate of 75 per cent of six month LIBOR, six monthly in arrears. In the event 
of a winding up of the company, repayment is made to holders of these shares only of the nominal capital paid up. The holders
of the redeemable shares are not entitled to vote at any general meeting, except if a resolution to wind up the company is
considered.
Shareholders are given the option to redeem at par the redeemable shares so acquired twice per annum.
Shareholders were given the opportunity by the company for these redeemable shares to be repurchased for cash. As a result, 
248,614 million (2003: 85,720 million) redeemable shares were repurchased for cash at a nominal value of 0.1 pence, £248.6
million (2003: £85.7 million) in value. All of the shares repurchased by the company were cancelled. On 31 March 2004, there
were 16,092 million (2003: 9,774 million) redeemable shares of 0.1 pence each still in issue.
During the year, 260,666 19.9 pence (2003: 542,992 16 pence) ordinary shares were allotted with an aggregate nominal value
of £0.1 million (2003: £0.1 million) for total consideration of £1.4 million (2003: £2.6 million). Notes to the financial statements continued
66 AWG Plc
26 Movement in share capital, reserves and shareholders’ funds
Ordinary Share Capital Profit Total
share Redeemable premium redemption and loss shareholders’ 
capital shares account reserve account funds
£m £m £m £m £m £m
The group
At 1 April 2003 28.4 9.8 6.0 352.3 520.9 917.4
Issue of shares 0.1 – 1.3 – – 1.4
Goodwill written back on disposal –––– 15.6 15.6
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year –––– (77.7) (77.7)
Dividends paid and proposed on non-equity shares –––– (0.3) (0.3)
Redeemable shares issued – 254.9 – – (254.9) –
Redemption of redeemable shares – (248.6) – 248.6 (248.6) (248.6)
Share issue costs – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 March 2004 28.5 16.1 6.9 600.9 (45.0) 607.4
Ordinary Share Capital Profit Total
share Redeemable premium redemption Merger and loss shareholders’ 
capital shares account reserve reserve account funds
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
The company
At 1 April 2003 28.4 9.8 6.0 352.3 812.5 16.5 1,225.5
Issue of shares 0.1 – 1.3 – – – 1.4
Total recognised gains and 
losses relating to the year – –––– 310.4 310.4
Dividends paid and proposed 
on non-equity shares – –––– (0.3) (0.3)
Redeemable shares issued – 254.9 – – (254.9) – –
Redemption of redeemable shares – (248.6) – 248.6 – (248.6) (248.6)
Share issue costs – – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
At 31 March 2004 28.5 16.1 6.9 600.9 557.6 78.0 1,288.0
The costs of issuing redeemable shares of £0.4 million have been charged to share premium account for the group and the
company.
27 Pension commitments 
Pension arrangements for the majority of the group’s UK employees are of the funded defined benefit type, principally through
the AWG Pension Scheme (“AWGPS”) the AWG (Infrastructure Management) Pension Scheme (“AWGIMPS”) (formerly Morrison
Pension & Life Assurance Plan) and the AWG Pensions & Life Assurance Plan (“AWGPLAP”). The group’s actuaries are AON
Consulting.
The defined benefit arrangements are closed to new members, who are eligible instead for entry to the group’s defined
contribution schemes. A number of defined contribution schemes operate both in the UK and overseas, and contributions 
to these schemes in the year amounted to £3.4 million (2003: £1.5 million).
The administration and investment of the pension funds are maintained separately from the finances of the group. 
The accounting pension costs have been prepared under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs, based on the most recent 
full actuarial valuations. Details of the most recent full actuarial valuations of the pension schemes are summarised below.
Scheme AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP
Date of most recent valuation update 31 March 2002 31 March 2002 31 March 2003
Actuarial method Projected unit Projected unit Projected unit (10 year 
control period)
Main assumptions:
Excess of investment returns over:
– general salary increases 1.9% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 3.5% p.a. 
– annual increases in pensions 3.8% p.a. 2.5% to 4.5% p.a. 5.0% p.a.
Results:
Market value of assets £518.1 million £56.4 million £11.3 million 
Funding level 109% 90% 76% 
Due date of next full actuarial valuation 31 March 2005 31 March 2005 31 March 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 67
27 Pension commitments (continued)
The net pension cost for the year ended 31 March 2004 was £16.6 million (2003: £18.1 million) which included contributions 
of £0.1 million (2003: £0.1 million) for overseas schemes and £2.2 million (2003: £4.4 million) for other defined benefit schemes.
The net pension costs includes a credit of £1.5 million (2003: £1.7 million) in respect of the amortisation of actuarial surpluses. 
At 31 March 2004 there was a prepayment in respect of pensions of £59.2 million (2003: £40.6 million).
FRS 17 – Retirement Benefits
In November 2000 the Accounting Standards Board issued FRS 17 Retirement Benefits. The group is making use of the
transitional arrangements regarding the adoption of FRS 17. These disclosures are included below as if FRS 17 had been applied
from 1 April 2001.
The valuation used for the FRS 17 disclosures has been based on the most recent full actuarial valuations (summarised above),
updated by independent actuaries to take account of the requirements of FRS 17 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes
at 31 March 2004. The group is contributing 20.1 per cent of pensionable pay plus £9.1 million per annum to the AWGPS, 
13.2 per cent of pensionable pay to the AWGIMPS and 18.4 per cent of pensionable pay to the AWGPLAP. The group also
manages an unfunded pension arrangement (note 22), which has been valued by independent actuaries to take account of the
requirements of FRS 17 as at 31 March 2004. In addition, the group operates a number of other defined benefit and defined
contribution schemes both in the UK and overseas. The assets and liabilities of these arrangements are not material to the group
financial statements and have been excluded from the following disclosures.
The liabilities of the schemes have been valued using the projected unit method and using the following assumptions:
2004 2003 2002
% p.a. % p.a. % p.a.
Discount rate 5.5 5.4 6.0
Inflation rate 2.9 2.6 2.8
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 2.9 2.6 2.8
Increases to inflation related pensions in payment 2.9 2.7 2.9
General salary increases 4.4 4.6 4.8
The long-term expected rate of return and the assets in the scheme at 31 March 2004 are:
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP pensions Total
Expected Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value
rate of of scheme of scheme of scheme of scheme of scheme
return assets assets assets assets assets
% p.a. £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.8 352.7 55.2 14.1 N/A 422.0
Corporate bonds 5.2 23.1 5.3 0.8 N/A 29.2
Gilts 4.8 113.6 5.4 2.7 N/A 121.7
Property 6.8 13.4 – – N/A 13.4
Other 4.0 32.4 0.6 0.3 N/A 33.3
Total assets 535.2 66.5 17.9 N/A 619.6
Fair value of scheme liabilities (686.0) (102.5) (29.3) (39.7) (857.5)
Deficit in the scheme (150.8) (36.0) (11.4) (39.7) (237.9)
Related deferred tax asset 45.2 10.8 3.4 11.9 71.3
Net pension liability (105.6) (25.2) (8.0) (27.8) (166.6) Notes to the financial statements continued
68 AWG Plc
27 Pension commitments (continued)
The long-term expected rate of return and the assets in the scheme at 31 March 2003 were:
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
Expected Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value
rate of of scheme of scheme of scheme of scheme
return assets assets assets assets
% p.a.£m£m£m£m
Equities 7.6 293.9 37.1 N/A 331.0
Corporate bonds 4.9 22.8 3.9 N/A 26.7
Gilts 4.6 65.3 3.9 N/A 69.2
Property 6.6 13.0 – N/A 13.0
Other 4.0 23.3 2.6 N/A 25.9
Total assets 418.3 47.5 N/A 465.8
Fair value of scheme liabilities (623.6) (109.7) (37.6) (770.9)
Deficit in the scheme (205.3) (62.2) (37.6) (305.1)
Related deferred tax asset 61.6 18.7 11.3 91.6
Net pension liability (143.7) (43.5) (26.3) (213.5)
The long-term expected rate of return and the assets in the scheme at 31 March 2002 were:
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
Expected Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value
rate of of scheme of scheme of scheme of scheme
return assets assets assets assets
% p.a.£m£m£m£m
Equities 8.0 407.0 44.6 N/A 451.6
Corporate bonds 6.0 28.0 3.3 N/A 31.3
Gilts 5.0 63.3 6.5 N/A 69.8
Property 8.0 15.7 1.0 N/A 16.7
Other 4.0 13.7 1.0 N/A 14.7
Total assets 527.7 56.4 N/A 584.1
Fair value of scheme liabilities (540.5) (78.2) (36.7) (655.4)
Deficit in the scheme (12.8) (21.8) (36.7) (71.3)
Related deferred tax asset 3.0 5.4 8.0 16.4
Net pension liability (9.8) (16.4) (28.7) (54.9)
The deferred tax attributable to pension scheme deficits is not discounted because the related deficits are themselves determined
on a discounted basis. If the above net pension liabilities had been recognised in the financial statements, the group’s net assets
and the profit and loss reserve at 31 March 2004 would be as follows:
Net assets
2004 2003
£m £m
Net assets 609.6 1,029.6
Exclude existing post tax net pension prepayment (under SSAP 24) (22.1) (10.1)
587.5 1,019.5
FRS 17 pension liability net of deferred tax (166.6) (213.5)
Net assets including FRS 17 pension liability 420.9 806.0
Profit and loss reserve
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit and loss reserve (45.0) 520.9
Exclude existing post tax net pension prepayment (under SSAP 24) (22.1) (10.1)
(67.1) 510.8
FRS 17 pension liability net of deferred tax (166.6) (213.5)
Profit and loss reserve including FRS 17 pension liability (233.7) 297.3 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 69
27 Pension commitments (continued)
The group pension expense for its defined benefit schemes, in accordance with FRS 17, would have been as set out below:
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP pensions Total
2004 £m £m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account
Current service cost (18.1) (6.7) (3.4) – (28.2)
Past service cost (3.1) – (9.6) – (12.7)
Charge to operating profit (21.2) (6.7) (13.0) – (40.9)
Expected return on pension scheme assets 28.5 3.4 0.9 – 32.8
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (33.8) (6.1) (1.4) (2.0) (43.3)
Amount charged to other finance income (5.3) (2.7) (0.5) (2.0) (10.5)
Charge to loss on ordinary activities before taxation (26.5) (9.4) (13.5) (2.0) (51.4)
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
2003 £m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account 
Current service cost (17.8) (8.3) – (26.1)
Past service cost ––––
Charge to operating profit (17.8) (8.3) – (26.1)
Expected return on pension scheme assets 40.5 4.5 – 45.0
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (32.6) (5.0) (2.0) (39.6)
Amount credited/(charged) to other finance income 7.9 (0.5) (2.0) 5.4
Charge to loss on ordinary activities before taxation (9.9) (8.8) (2.0) (20.7)
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP pensions Total
2004 £m £m £m £m £m
Statement of total recognised gains and losses 
Actual return on pension scheme 
assets less expected return 78.7 12.7 2.9 – 94.3
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities – 9.7 (0.9) – 8.8
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value 
of the scheme liabilities (23.1) 9.0 0.9 (2.2) (15.4)
Gain/(loss) recognised 55.6 31.4 2.9 (2.2) 87.7
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
2003 £m £m £m £m
Statement of total recognised gains and losses
Actual return on pension scheme assets 
less expected return (166.4) (17.8) – (184.2)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities – – 0.9 0.9
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (41.7) (18.9) (1.8) (62.4)
Loss recognised (208.1) (36.7) (0.9) (245.7) Notes to the financial statements continued
70 AWG Plc
27 Pension commitments (continued)
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP pensions Total
2004 £m £m £m £m £m
Movement in scheme deficit 
Deficit at 1 April 2003 (205.3) (62.2) (3.4) (37.6) (308.5)
Current service costs (18.1) (6.7) (3.4) – (28.2)
Contributions 25.4 4.2 2.6 2.1 34.3
Past service costs (3.1) – (9.6) – (12.7)
Net interest (5.3) (2.7) (0.5) (2.0) (10.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 55.6 31.4 2.9 (2.2) 87.7
Deficit at 31 March 2004 (150.8) (36.0) (11.4) (39.7) (237.9)
The past service costs for the AWGPLAP relate to the bulk transfer of assets and liabilities from a non-group pension scheme 
in November 2003. Prior to the bulk transfer this scheme was excluded from FRS 17 and SSAP 24 disclosures on the grounds 
of materiality.
Unfunded
AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
2003 £m £m £m £m
Movement in scheme deficit 
Deficit at 1 April 2002 (12.8) (21.8) (36.7) (71.3)
Current service costs (17.8) (8.3) – (26.1)
Contributions 25.5 5.1 2.0 32.6
Past service costs ––––
Net interest 7.9 (0.5) (2.0) 5.4
Actuarial loss (208.1) (36.7) (0.9) (245.7)
Deficit at 31 March 2003 (205.3) (62.2) (37.6) (305.1)
Unfunded
2004 AWGPS AWGIMPS AWGPLAP pensions Total
Details of experience gains and losses
Difference between expected and actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 78.7 12.7 2.9 – 94.3
Percentage of scheme assets 14.7% 19.1% 16.2% – 15.2%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) – 9.7 (0.9) – 8.8
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities – 9.5% 3.1% – 1.0%
Amount in group statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) 55.6 31.4 2.9 (2.2) 87.7
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 8.1% 30.6% 9.9% 5.5% 10.2%
Unfunded
2003 AWGPS AWGIMPS pensions Total
Details of experience gains and losses 
Difference between expected and actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (166.4) (17.8) – (184.2)
Percentage of scheme assets 39.8% 37.5% – 39.5%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) – – 0.9 0.9
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities – – 2.4% 0.1%
Amount in group statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (£m) (208.1) (36.7) (0.9) (245.7)
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 33.4% 33.5% 2.4% 31.9% Annual Report and Accounts 2004 71
28 Contingent liabilities
The group
The group has entered into a number of performance bonds and guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for any amounts that the Directors consider may become payable under such arrangements. The group has
also guaranteed obligations of joint ventures and associates totalling £54.7 million (2003: £84.6 million) including obligations
of Aguas Argentinas (in which the group has a 4.35 per cent investment) amounting to £10.6 million (2003: £15.4 million).
The company
The company is a party to cross guarantee agreements relating to a credit facility for the Infrastructure Management Business
and to certain group companies’ accounts at Barclays Bank Plc. Net indebtedness under each of these arrangements at 31
March 2004 was £nil (2003: £nil).
29 Related party transactions
The group’s related party transactions requiring disclosure in the financial statements in accordance with FRS8 Related Party
Transactions are summarised below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Sales to joint ventures on normal trading terms 46.9 124.9
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates falling due within one year 91.1 77.1
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates falling due after more than one year 11.1 19.5
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates falling due within one year 28.2 11.9 Notes to the financial statements continued
72 AWG Plc
30 Principal group companies
The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2004 are shown below. A full list of the group’s subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates will be delivered to the registrar with the next annual return.
Country of 
Incorporation Activities
Group and Other
AWG Group Limited (1) England Holding company
AWG Central Services Limited (1) England Provision of administration services to group companies
Rutland Insurance Limited Guernsey Provision of insurance to group companies
UK water and wastewater services
Anglian Water Services Limited (2) England Water and wastewater undertaker, regulated principally by 
the Water Industry Act 1991
Anglian Water Services Financing Plc England Financing company
Anglian Water Services Holdings Limited England Holding company
Anglian Water Services Overseas Holdings Limited Cayman Islands Holding company
Utility Services
Alpheus Environmental Limited England Wastewater treatment
Anglian Water Direct Limited England Home service products 
Power Services HVDE Limited England Utility contracting
Government Services
AWG Project Investments Limited Scotland Bidding for and managing PFI projects
AWG Facilities Services Limited Scotland Property maintenance and repair work
Maintenance and Property Care Limited Scotland Property maintenance and repair work
AWG Highway Maintenance Limited England Highway maintenance
MVM Central Land Charges Company Limited England Provision of computerised land charge search services
MVM Consultants Plc England Sale of computer software and associated services
MVM Infrastructure Management Solutions Limited England Asset and management services
Construction Services
AWG Construction Services Limited (3) Scotland Building and civil engineering and utility contracting
PURAC Limited England Contracting for water and wastewater treatment processes
Developments and Commercial Services
AWG Property Solutions Limited England Corporate property management
Ambury Developments Limited England Corporate property management
AWG Developments Limited Scotland Construction and the development of land and buildings
AWG Residential Limited Scotland Development of residential estates
International Services
Anglian Water International Limited England International water and wastewater business development 
services, holding company
Anglian Water International Holdings Limited England Holding company
Anglian Water Overseas Holdings Limited England Holding company
PURAC Pacific Pty Limited Australia Design, build and operation of wastewater projects
PURAC-Anglian Water Treatment 
System (Beijing) Co Ltd (4) China Contracting for water and wastewater treatment processes
Anglian Water International (NZ) Limited New Zealand Design, build and operation of wastewater projects
Anglian Water (Ireland) Limited Ireland Management and operation of leakage reduction and 
wastewater projects
Anglian Water Thailand Thailand Management and operation of leakage reduction
Byquin SA (formerly Anglian Water International 
Holdings Limited y Compania Limitada) (4) Chile Holding company
Morrison International Limited Scotland Building and civil engineering contracting
Morrison International Developments Limited Scotland Property development
Celtic Anglian Water Limited Ireland Water and wastewater treatment Annual Report and Accounts 2004 73
30 Principal group companies (continued)
(1) These companies are owned directly by AWG Plc.
(2) Including Anglian Water Services trading as Hartlepool Water Limited.
(3) AWG Construction Services Limited’s activities are split between the Utility Services, Construction Services and Government
Services divisions.
(4) These companies have a year end date of 31 December to comply with local requirements.
The group also owns a number of smaller and non-trading companies. All of the subsidiaries listed above are 100 per cent
owned by the group or the company, with the exception of Maintenance and Property Care Limited, which is 66.7 per cent
owned, and Celtic Anglian Water Limited, which is 50.0 per cent owned. 
The voting rights in respect of each subsidiary are in the same proportion as the shares held. Those companies shown as
incorporated in England are registered in England and Wales. All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation,
except for Anglian Water International Limited and the PURAC companies.
All subsidiaries have a year end of 31 March with the exception of those companies noted above.
All subsidiary undertakings disclosed above are included within the group consolidated financial statements. Group financial history
74 AWG Plc
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account
Turnover
Group 872.9 1,230.9 1,704.6 1,740.0 1,759.6
Joint ventures 5.6 57.0 108.5 142.8 129.4
878.5 1,287.9 1,813.1 1,882.8 1,889.0
Operating Profit 299.3 284.7 122.0 248.7 305.4
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 16.4 – 19.6 (1.2) (121.5)
Loss on sale of fixed assets – (2.7) – – –
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 315.7 282.0 141.6 247.5 183.9
Interest payable (net) (114.0) (159.1) (195.1) (289.9) (263.7)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 201.7 122.9 (53.5) (42.4) (79.8)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities (47.4) (50.5) 16.3 (9.7) 8.5
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year 154.3 72.4 (37.2) (52.1) (71.3)
Payment to shareholders 43.0p 44.0p 44.6p 44.8p 46.4p
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share – basic 56.2p 23.9p (16.3p) (26.4p) (52.0p)
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional 
items and goodwill amortisation 65.4p 33.2p 41.9p 25.0p 50.6p
Balance sheet
Fixed assets 3,593.3 4,317.9 4,370.9 4,398.2 4,056.9
Net working capital (stock, debtors and other 
creditors amounts falling due within one year) (46.9) 140.5 144.1 115.9 10.8
Other creditors amounts falling due after more than one year (99.4) (106.3) (98.1) (97.5) (93.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (90.3) (101.5) (106.5) (165.9) (173.9)
Net debt (1,599.1) (2,388.5) (2,612.1) (3,221.1) (3,190.6)
Capital employed 1,757.6 1,862.1 1,698.3 1,029.6 609.6
Due to the divisional restructuring during 2001/2002, no divisional analysis of turnover and operating profit is provided. A divisional
analysis for 2004 and 2003 is provided in note 2 to the financial statements. Operating profits are stated after the following
exceptional items: £22.7 million in 2004, £63.4 million in 2003, £193.9 million in 2002, £17.2 million in 2001 and £43.1 million 
in 2000. Shareholder information
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 75
Supplementary information on capital payments to shareholders
No equity dividends have been paid in the last year. Redeemable shares are issued and a redemption offer made to return cash to
shareholders. Set out below is a table which summarises actual payments to ordinary shareholders in the form of redeemable shares 
in relation to the fiscal years to 5 April 2003 and 2004.
Issued and Equivalent
partially price per
redeemed share
Share issue date £m pence
23 September 2002 88.3 31.2
16 October 2002 500.9 177.0
6 January 2003 24.1 13.6
Total issues declared in the fiscal year 2003 613.3 221.8
16 June 2003 177.4 100.0
4 August 2003 57.5 32.4
15 December 2003 20.0 14.0
Total issues declared in the fiscal year 2004 254.9 146.4
Apportionment figures
For capital gains tax calculations the base cost of the redeemable shares will be taken as a proportion of the shareholders’ original 
base cost in their existing ordinary shares. The apportionment figures are calculated by reference to market values:
Share price on the first day of trading following the issue of redeemable shares 15 Dec 16 June 6 Jan 16 Oct 23 Sep
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002
Ordinary redeemable shares £0.00090 £0.00090 £0.00095 – £0.00090
Special redeemable shares – £0.00090–––
C shares – – – £1.77 –
Ordinary shares £5.45 £5.07 £4.15 £3.53 £4.26
Apportionment percentages 15 Dec 16 June 6 Jan 16 Oct 23 Sep
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002
Ordinary shares 97.74% 77.38% 96.98% – 93.82%
Special Redeemable Shares – 17.08%–––
Ordinary Redeemable shares 2.26% 5.54% 3.02% – 6.18%
Redeemable shares for apportionment 140 1,324 136 – 312 
Ordinary 16p shares – – – 55.49% –
C Shares of £1.77 each per ordinary share – – – 44.51% –
Prior year apportionment figures are available in the investor relations pages of the company’s website www.awg.com.
Share register and shareholder enquiries
The company’s share register is maintained by Lloyds TSB Registrars. 
Shareholders requiring help or information about their shareholding may either write to The Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, 
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA or telephone 0870 606 0382 (international: +44 121 415 7103). Information 
can also be found on the company’s website at www.awg.com. Lloyds TSB Registrars provide a number of services for shareholders.
Registration of change of address
If a shareholder changes address they should contact the Registrars, providing their name, account number and new address. 
All future correspondence regarding the shareholding will be sent to the new address.
Lost share certificates
If a shareholder has misplaced their share certificate they should contact the Registrars who will arrange for an indemnity to be sent
out. Once this has been signed and returned, a new share certificate can be issued. Shareholders should note that the Registrars
usually charge a fee for this service. Shareholder information continued
76 AWG Plc
Share transfers
If shareholders wish to transfer their shares they should contact the Registrars who will arrange for the appropriate stock transfer
forms to be sent. On completion these should be returned to the Registrars who will issue a new certificate.
Registration of a deceased shareholder 
The Registrars should be notified upon the death of a shareholder. The original grant of probate and the share certificates should 
be sent to the Registrars who will arrange for the shares to be transferred. If there is no requirement for probate, the Registrars can
provide a small estates procedure form.
Website
The company’s website is www.awg.com, which provides information including:
• Recent news and stock exchange announcements relating to AWG Plc and its subsidiaries.
• Investor relation information, which includes details of apportionment figures, FAQs, annual reports, the board and share price
information.
• Details of the different business operations as well as a link to the Anglian Water website.
Electronic communications
Each year the company distributes to shareholders various documents and reports to meet the obligations of the Companies Act 
and the UK Listing Rules. These are currently posted to shareholders. The company now wishes to take advantage of changes in
legislation and send those papers, and any other communications, electronically where shareholders agree. To enable the company 
to send documents to shareholders electronically, they need to register at the following website, www.shareview.co.uk/awg. Once
registered with Shareview, shareholders gain more control of their shares and other investments as they can view details of recent
movements in their shareholding and change their address details online. The company believes that electronic communications will
improve services to shareholders and reduce costs for the company.
Shareview dealing
A telephone and Internet dealing service has been arranged through the Registrars who will provide a simple way of selling AWG
ordinary shares. For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales 
log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Commission is 0.5 per cent, with a minimum charge of £20 for telephone dealing and
£17.50 for Internet dealing. Shareholders will need their shareholder reference number shown on the share certificate(s).
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form together with terms and conditions can be obtained by calling 
0870 242 4244. Commission is 1 per cent with a minimum of £10. 
Redeemable Share Mandate scheme
The company has introduced a standing instruction mandate scheme in respect of the redeemable shares that the company issues.
Under it, shareholders are able to instruct the company to treat them as having accepted any redemption offer made by the
company. The company believes that the introduction to the mandate scheme will make the redemption process easier and it has
cost saving benefits for the company. Shareholders who have not yet joined the mandate scheme but wish to do so, will find a
standing instruction form enclosed with this mailing. Currently 27,165 shareholders, representing 54.74 per cent of the certificated
holdings, have chosen to join the scheme.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 29 July 2004 
Latest date for proxies to have been received 27 July 2004
Redemption period starts 21 July 2004
Redemption period finishes 31 August 2004
Redemption cheques dispatched/CREST accounts credited 10 September 2004
Disability and Discrimination Act
AWG Plc shareholder communications are available in alternative formats in order to provide better access to information for those
with disabilities. For more information on audio tape, braille and large print versions please call 0870 600 3953 or, for shareholders
with hearing difficulties, textphone 0870 600 3950.
Registered office
AWG Plc 
Anglian House 
Ambury Road, Huntingdon 
Cambridgeshire PE29 3NZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone +44 (0)1480 323000 
