 The Weir Group PLC 
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2013
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 THE WEIR GROUP IS A
GLOBAL ENGINEERING 
GROUP FOCUSSED 
ON PARTNERSHIPS 
WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 
Photo: Weir Seaboard Service Technician Jerome Johnson from Texas. Photographer: Chris Close. 
weir.co.uk
@weirgroup
Strategic Report Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
2013 Highlights   1
Weir at a Glance  2
0–3
Overview
Understanding Our Markets   4 
Chairman’s Statement   6
Our Strategy and Business Model   8
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review   10
Strategy in Action  14
Key Performance Indicators  22
How We Manage Risk  24
4–30
Strategic 
Review
Board of Directors   64
Group Executive  66 
Corporate Governance Report   67
Nomination Committee Report   77
Audit Committee Report   79
Remuneration Report   85
Other Statutory Information   113
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 116
64–116
Corporate 
Governance
Independent Auditor’s Report 117
Consolidated Income Statement   120
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income   121
Consolidated Balance Sheet   122
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement   123
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   124
Notes to the Group Financial Statements   125
Independent Auditor’s Report 176
Company Balance Sheet   177
Notes to the Company Financial Statements   178
117–189
Financial 
Statements
Principal Companies of the Group   190
Shareholder Information   192
Glossary   194
Financial Calendar and Cautionary Statement  196
190–196
Company 
Information
Weir Minerals  31
Weir Oil & Gas 36
Weir Power & Industrial   40
Financial Review   43
Sustainability Review   49
31–63
Operational  
Review Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 1
Growing order momentum in 
challenging end markets: second 
half input up 12% like for like  
on 2012;
Robust aftermarket performance: 
16% order growth;
Record operating margins 
maintained: 19.2% (2012: 19.1%);
Value Chain Excellence initiatives 
delivering results: over £40m in 
direct cost savings;
Mining and Oil & Gas platforms 
extended: market-leading service 
network expanded;
Record cash generation and  
full year dividend: increased by  
11% to 42.0p.
2013 Financial highlights
How we do it: our four strategic pillars
1. Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional  
items and intangibles amortisation. 
2. 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
Revenue
£2,430m  
-4%
Operating profit
1
£467m  
-4%
Profit before tax
1
£418m  
-5%
Dividend per share
42.0p  
+11%
Earnings per share
1
145.4p  
-2%
Order input
2
£2,462m  
+3%
Net debt
£747m 
-£58m
INNOVATION COLLABORATION
GLOBAL CAPABILITY VALUE CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
Providing the same high standards and expertise  
wherever our customers need us. Investing in the best people, safety and operational performance.
READ MORE 
ON PAGE 15
READ MORE 
ON PAGE 16
READ MORE 
ON PAGE 21
READ MORE 
ON PAGE 18
Cash flow from operations
£474m  
+19%
Developing new products and services which  
deliver a competitive advantage.
Working closely with colleagues, customers, 
suppliers and communities. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 2
Strategic Report: 
Weir at a Glance
2013 Group input by geography
North America 40%
South America 12%
Europe 14%
Australasia 10%
Middle East and Africa 14%
Asia-Paciﬁc 10%
2013 Group input by market
Minerals 40%
Oil and gas 40%
Industrial and other 9%
Power 11%
GLOBAL CAPABILITY, LOCAL DELIVERY
Customers are at the centre of Weir’s strategy 
for growth. That means delivering the 
innovative engineering solutions they need, 
wherever in the world they need them. 
Learn more about our strategy on pages 8 and 9. 
WEIR A T A GLANCE:
PARTNERS IN 
PRODUCTION
2013 Group input by market 2013 Group input by geography
North America
80 facilities
4,670 people
South America
22 facilities
1,800 people
Asia-Pacific
41 facilities
2,340 people
Europe
53 facilities
3,090 people
Middle East 
and Africa
37 facilities
2,130 people
Australasia
28 facilities
1,190 people Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3
Oil & Gas
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
products used in the upstream pressure 
pumping, pressure control and downstream 
refining operations. Weir Oil & Gas is a 
market leader in pressure pumping. 
 
2013 Revenue
£796m 
-7%
2013 Operating profit
£181m 
-16%
Key brands: 
SPM, Seaboard, Mathena, Novatech, Mesa,  
Gabbioneta, Weir Oil & Gas Services.
Main markets: 
Oil and gas drilling and completion; oil refining. 
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, Middle East, China, Singapore  
and Australia.
Major customers: 
Oilfield service companies; national and  
international oil companies and EPCMs.
Employees: 
3,700
Addressable market: 
£8.3bn
Power & Industrial
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
valves, pumps and turbines which are 
used in conventional and renewable  
power and industrial operations and  
in oil and gas production, mid-stream  
and refining markets.
2013 Revenue
£330m 
+1%
2013 Operating profit
£31m 
-2%
Key brands: 
Roto-Jet, WEMCO, Blakeborough, Atwood & Morrill, 
Batley Valve, BDK, Hopkinsons, Tricentric, Sarasin-
RBSD, Sebim, Allen Steam Turbines, American Hydro.
Main markets: 
Nuclear, conventional and renewable power generation; 
water and waste water; mid and downstream oil and 
gas; and general industrial processes.
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, UK, France, Spain, South Korea, 
Singapore, South Africa, India and China. 
Major customers: 
Utility companies; general industrial companies; 
EPCMs.
Employees:
3,200
Addressable market: 
£7.7bn
 
>  Read more about Weir Minerals’ performance  
from page 31. 
 
>  Read more about Weir Oil & Gas’ performance  
from page 36. 
 
>  Read more about Weir Power & Industrial’s 
performance from page 40. 
The Weir Group consists of three complementary 
divisions operating in markets which share strong 
prospects for long term growth. Our products and 
services help meet the demands of the world’s growing 
population for commodities and energy. You can learn 
more in ‘Understanding our Markets’ on pages 4 and 5.
Minerals
Designing, manufacturing and supporting 
products used in mining and minerals 
processing. Weir Minerals is the global  
market leader in slurry handling equipment. 
 
2013 Revenue
£1,304m 
0%
2013 Operating profit
£269m 
+6%
Key brands: 
Warman, Vulco, Cavex, Enduron and Linatex.
Main markets: 
Mining and minerals processing; oil sands;  
comminution; aggregates; flue gas desulphurisation;  
and tunnelling and dredging.
Major operational locations: 
US, Canada, Chile, Brazil, Peru, UK, Netherlands,  
South Africa, India, China and Australia. 
Major customers: 
Major and junior mining houses; Engineering,  
Procurement and Construction Management  
companies (EPCMs); national and international  
oil companies.
Employees: 
8,300 
Addressable market: 
£6.2bn The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 4
Strategic Report: 
Understanding Our Markets
Mining sector commodity mix
Copper 35%
Gold 14%
Coal 6%
Iron 11%
Phosphate 5%
Nickel 4%
Other minerals 22%
Alumina 3%
4,000
3,200
3,600
Probable projects
Current production forecast (including mine closures)
Committed projects
Total ore demand
00
2,800
2013f 2014f 2015f 2016f 2017f
Weir operates in three main markets: minerals;  
oil and gas; and power. Together, these markets 
contribute more than 90% of Group revenue. 
UNDERSTANDING
OUR MARKETS
Minerals
Weir Minerals operates primarily in the global minerals 
processing sector. Our equipment and services are 
applied across the ‘mill circuit’, the process by which  
rock ores are broken down into end commodities such  
as copper, gold and iron ore. Our largest exposures  
are to those commodities which need the greatest 
amount of processing and have the strongest long  
term prospects for growth. See Figure 2 which shows 
forecast copper demand versus supply. 
Demand for these commodities comes from the  
growing world population and the trend towards 
urbanisation – where greater numbers of people  
move from the countryside to cities. This is  
particularly the case in emerging economies.
Our original equipment orders are driven by capital 
expenditure from mining companies. This can come  
in the form of greenfield expenditure on new projects  
or brownfield spending, where existing assets are 
developed to increase production or efficiencies.  
The abrasive process of turning rock into a valuable  
end commodity means our equipment is exposed  
to significant wear and tear. This generates aftermarket 
sales – where our products need regular servicing and 
replacement parts. This process is supported by another 
trend: global ore grades are in decline which means more 
processing is needed to produce the same amount of 
raw commodity over time.
Key links to business model and strategy:
• Highly engineered products used in critical processes.
• High levels of aftermarket support provide resilience.
• Strong service presence builds customer intimacy.
• Leadership in core mill circuit technologies.
• Broad product portfolio across mill circuit  
process flow.
• Global industry: diversity of revenue and technological 
and operational leverage.
 
Figure 1: Weir mining sector commodity exposure
1
Figure 2: Forecast copper ore demand and supply
2 
(million tonnes) 
1. Source: Weir Minerals mining sector revenues, 2013. 
2. Source: SNL, February 2014.
3. Source: EIA 2014 annual report (early release version).
4. Includes shale formations.
5.  Includes CO 2 enhanced oil recovery.
6. Source: EIA 2013 International energy outlook.
7. Source: EIA 2013 International energy outlook. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5
10
8
History Projections
Lower 48 (offshore)
Others 3
5
 (onshore) Alaska
Tight Oil 2
4
 (onshore)
2011 2014 2017
2013
2020
4
2
6
6
4
2
China
Australia/New Zealand
Russia
Central and South America
Rest of World
OECD Europe
Middle East
2011 2014 2017 2020
2013
Coal
Natural gas
Liquids
Nuclear
Hydro and other renewables
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Figure 5: Total world installed generation capacity by source (Gigawatts)
7
Oil & Gas
Weir Oil & Gas operates in the conventional and 
unconventional upstream oil and gas markets, with a 
niche position supplying specialist pumps to downstream 
markets. Our largest exposure is to the North American 
onshore unconventional market with international 
unconventional opportunities beginning to emerge.
Unconventional drilling involves the extraction of shale oil 
and gas using hydraulic fracturing where high pressure 
water, sand and chemicals are used to release gas and oil 
from rock far below the surface. We serve these markets in 
three main ways: pressure control equipment and services 
to Exploration and Production (E&P) companies to ensure 
drilling, completion and production processes can be 
carried out efficiently and safely; pressure pumping 
equipment and services, which provide original equipment 
to oil and gas service companies for use in hydraulic 
fracturing (fracking); and Weir Oil & Gas services, where 
dedicated engineering support and spares are provided to 
both conventional and unconventional markets in Europe 
and the Middle East. We also serve mid and downstream 
oil and gas markets with products for use in Floating 
Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO), Liquefied  
Natural Gas (LNG) and refining operations. 
The main growth driver in these markets is growing  
global oil and gas demand. The number of wells drilled 
determines the level of demand for our equipment.  
The intensity and growing complexity of drilling and 
completion applications leads to strong aftermarket 
sales. Our downstream business is primarily influenced 
by refining activity levels.
Key links to business model and strategy:
• Highly engineered products used in critical processes.
• High pressure abrasive applications increase 
aftermarket requirements.
• Leading service presence in all shale plays:  
strong customer partnership.
• Pump to wellhead capability: broad portfolio  
provides opportunities in conventional and 
unconventional markets.
• Global manufacturing and service footprint  
to capture international opportunities.
Power 
Weir Power & Industrial operates in the conventional, 
nuclear and renewables power generation, industrial  
and mid and downstream oil and gas markets. We serve 
these markets through the design and manufacture  
of valves, pumps and turbines and the provision of 
specialist support services. 
Growing global energy demand, particularly from 
emerging economies, and the replacement of ageing 
facilities to meet new environmental regulations are the 
main growth drivers in this market. The increasing global 
population dictates the need for new power plants and 
the refurbishment of existing facilities along with the 
development of renewable projects and oilfield 
infrastructure development. 
Key links to business model and strategy:
• Highly engineered products used in critical processes.
• High temperature, high pressure application.
• Global manufacturing and service footprint to  
capture international opportunities.
• Broad valves portfolio provides cross-selling 
opportunities.
Figure 3: US oil production forecast, 2011–2020  
(million barrels per day)
3
Figure 4: World tight gas, shale gas, coalbed methane production  
(excluding US, Canada) (trillion cubic feet)
6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 6
Strategic Report: 
Chairman’s Statement
We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders 
of 33.2p per share, making 42.0p per share for the full 
year, an increase of 11% in line with our commitment to  
a double-digit dividend increase in 2013. This is the 30th 
consecutive year of dividend growth for the Group and the 
8th consecutive year of double-digit growth.
I took over as Chairman on 1 January 2014, succeeding 
Lord Smith of Kelvin, who had been in the role for 11 years. 
Robert was an outstanding Chairman of Weir and I wish  
to record the Board’s appreciation for his deft and wise 
leadership, as well as my personal thanks for his advice 
and friendship during my time as Deputy Chairman. It is 
worth briefly reflecting on the development of the Group 
during Lord Smith’s tenure into a highly-focussed, high 
margin engineering group operating in the structural 
growth markets of minerals, oil and gas, and power.  
This has delivered a ten-year total shareholder return of 
almost 1,000% – one of the best performances in the 
FTSE 100 – an index which Weir joined during Lord Smith’s 
time as Chairman.
It was fitting that on his last day as Chairman he was 
appointed by the Queen as a Knight of the Thistle,  
the highest honour in Scotland.
Strength from our diversity
In preparing for assuming my responsibilities as 
Chairman, I have visited many of our operations around 
the world. Doing this has allowed me to see our strategy 
and business model in action and appreciate how  
well positioned this Group is to address current and  
future challenges. 
One source of strength is our diversity. By serving the  
end markets of mining, oil and gas and power, we are 
exposed to different capital expenditure cycles, operating 
environments and geographies. These opportunities are 
captured by a business model which provides resilience 
– a point reinforced by our solid 2013 performance which 
was ahead of our end markets.
Changing market dynamics in minerals meant a significant 
reduction in capital expenditure by mining companies. 
Our business was quick to respond: further extending 
into adjacent markets; selling an increasing suite of 
products; and capturing the aftermarket opportunities 
from a growing installed base. 
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
A DIVERSE BUSINESS 
ABLE TO CAPTURE 
GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES 
Despite challenging trading conditions, 
Weir’s diverse end market and 
geographical exposure underpinned  
a solid performance in 2013. Revenues 
were down 4% at £2.4bn, with pre-tax 
profits from continuing operations, 
before exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation, of £418m, a 5% decrease 
on 2012. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7
We benefitted from the Group’s industry leading service 
network which creates a platform to get closer to our 
customers and offers an expanded range of products.  
This route to market was also a source of real competitive 
advantage for our Oil & Gas division, both in our largest 
market of North America and in growing international 
opportunities, where it has leveraged Group resources  
to best effect. 
Overall, this agility allowed us to outperform our key  
end markets in an environment of reduced spending  
on original equipment. 
This performance was supported by significant progress  
in delivering our strategy. In each division, we expanded our 
range of products, strengthened partnerships with major 
customers and increased our best cost sourcing capability. 
This helped deliver greater value to our customers while 
operational efficiencies and procurement savings assisted 
in sustaining margins. We also made good progress  
in expanding in adjacent markets, with the acquisition  
of Mathena expanding our pressure control offering  
in Oil & Gas. 
In Minerals, the division extended into the circa £1bn 
comminution segment of the mill processing market – 
where materials are crushed, ground and screened – 
providing the next leg of growth even in a capital 
constrained world.
We also continued to develop our engineering and  
human resources to support the effective execution  
of our strategy and the achievement of our ambitious 
growth plans. As our business has increased in scale  
and complexity, it has become even more important  
to attract and retain the right people to help take 
advantage of future opportunities. That is why we  
remain committed to helping our employees achieve  
their full potential. 
Our Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane, provides a  
detailed review of the strategy in action from page 10.
Our wider commitments
Weir is a global business conscious of its obligations  
as a responsible corporate citizen. We are committed  
to sustainability in the widest possible sense, which 
means ensuring the business continues to grow in  
a way that benefits communities, at the same time as 
managing the environmental impacts associated with  
an engineering group. 
In 2013, we made a significant economic contribution 
through our supply chain and direct support of 
community causes. As a Group operating in dynamic 
markets, we need to be able to react swiftly to changing 
conditions. While this necessitated restructuring in some 
businesses, we also invested in growth opportunities and 
overall added more than 800 employees, the majority of 
which were as a result of acquisitions. Our supply chain 
spending was over £1.3bn, and supports businesses  
in 50 countries. And this year the Group directly invested 
almost half a million pounds in charitable activities in the 
communities where we operate. 
The safety of our employees and partners is of the utmost 
importance to us as a Board and we were all affected by 
the loss of a Weir colleague in a fatality towards the end 
of the year. As a Group, we continue to improve our safety 
culture. Over the course of 2013, the development of the 
Weir Environmental, Health and Safety System continued, 
with key initiatives including the launch of the Weir 
Behavioural Safety System. It contains a number of 
Group-wide tools to establish consistent standards  
in areas of risk. Significant resources will continue to be 
invested in the people, policies and processes to help  
us realise our safety ambitions. 
The Group has also taken steps to assess our 
environmental impacts. We have introduced a robust, 
Group-wide system to calculate our performance on 
carbon emissions and water usage, which will enable  
us to measure and target energy reduction initiatives 
more effectively.
We are also updating our Code of Conduct in order to 
continue to provide relevant guidance to ensure we  
all operate to the highest ethical standards. Compliance 
with the Code will continue to be regularly monitored.
As part of the Board’s programme of regular visits  
across the Group, we spent time in Yorkshire at the  
Weir Minerals plant in Todmorden and the Weir Power  
& Industrial plant in Elland. These visits are valuable to  
all members of the Board, adding to our understanding  
of the operations of the Group and recognising the 
contribution our people make to its continuing success.  
I was particularly pleased to see the Todmorden facility 
win its second Queen’s Award for outstanding 
achievement in international trade.
I was delighted to welcome Mary Jo Jacobi to the  
Board at the beginning of 2014. Mary Jo has extensive 
experience in private enterprise and public life in both  
the US and the UK. I would like to thank her and all  
my fellow Board members for their support and look 
forward to continuing to work with them in the future. 
On a personal level, I have been struck by the pride  
and common purpose shared by all Weir colleagues.  
It gives enormous strength to this business and helps 
explain Weir’s record of success over the past 143 years. 
I would like to thank all colleagues for their hard work  
and continued commitment.
It also gives me great optimism for the future. 2013  
has demonstrated that Weir is a Group which is well 
placed to respond to further challenges in our end 
markets and take advantage of future opportunities. 
That agility, allied to a clear, well executed strategy and 
robust business model, has proved resilient in the past.  
I am confident, as we look forward, it will continue to 
deliver sustainable and growing returns to shareholders  
in the future.
Charles Berry
Chairman
26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 8
Strategic Report: 
Our Strategy and Business Model
Our mission is to be wherever and whenever our global energy and resource  
customers need us delivering innovative products and services and becoming  
their trusted partner of choice. We deliver our mission through our core strategy 
which is to strengthen and extend our position in the structural growth markets  
of minerals, oil and gas and power and achieve sustainable growth ahead of  
these markets. 
OUR STRA TEGY AND
BUSINESS MODEL:
A PLA TFORM FOR
PROFIT ABLE GROWTH
INNOVATION
Developing new products and technologies to provide the Group and our 
customers with competitive advantage. Innovation is also at the heart of  
developing our customer support activities and enhancing our functional 
capabilities. 
Chosen for growth
The Group has chosen 
to operate in long cycle 
markets with positive 
fundamentals. We 
believe these sectors 
are influenced by trends 
that enable long term 
sustainable growth 
ahead of global GDP.
Emerging
market 
growth
Water
security
Environment
Urbanisation
Energy
demand
Resource
scarcity
COLLABORATION
Working closely with customers, suppliers and communities and across our  
businesses and divisions is of critical importance. This collaborative mindset 
ensures Weir gains a better understanding of the markets it serves and the 
associated technology and support requirements. Collaboration ensures 
effective delivery for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Minerals
VALUE CHAIN  
EXCELLENCE
Investing in people, technology, safety performance and infrastructure to continue  
to develop our lean operating platform across the value chain.
Oil & Gas
GLOBAL CAPABILITY
Providing uniform capability and expertise, wherever our customers are, ensures  
Weir can become the solutions provider of choice. Mission critical applications 
demand products and services that can be rapidly provided to the point of 
customer need.
Power
Global 
megatrends
Our chosen 
markets
Driving growth  
The Weir Way Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9
Develop
service presence
Establish leading
Invest in technology and 
Develop close
Manufacturing and supplying
equipment to grow our installed base
Capturing aftermarket opportunities 
for spares, service and support
How we generate revenue
Expanding and cross-selling 
complementary product portfolio 
Provide highly engineered
Integrate quality
How we sustain profi table growth
acquisitions
on-time delivery and safety
Improve effi ciency,
equipment for critical processes
talent
customer relationships
engineering platform
We execute our strategy by focussing on the 
four strategic pillars that define our distinctive 
approach and deliver real competitive 
advantages: innovation; collaboration; value 
chain excellence; and global capability.
These strategic pillars build on our robust 
business model, which: grows our installed 
base of original equipment; captures the 
opportunities presented in the aftermarket  
for spares and support; and leverages  
our technical leadership, global footprint  
and customer channels to cross-sell 
complementary products. 
Through effective execution of our strategy 
and the competitive advantages of our 
business model, we seek to: sustainably  
grow revenues faster than our markets; 
deliver top quartile margins; and increase 
returns on capital whilst retaining a solid 
financial base to pursue organic and 
acquisition-led opportunities.
Our key performance indicators are shown 
on pages 22 and 23.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Information on how our business is affected 
by risk is contained from page 24.
Our business
model The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 10
Strategic Report: 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
We serve structural growth markets providing leading 
engineering solutions to our customers in the minerals,  
oil and gas and power sectors. Our products are used  
in critical processes. Without our equipment, rock  
could not be turned into ore and shale oil and gas  
would remain underground. 
Because of the industries in which we work, our products 
are exposed to high abrasion, high pressure and extreme 
temperature environments. This delivers substantial 
aftermarket opportunities, which supports healthy  
and stable returns throughout the economic cycle. 
In line with our aim of becoming a partner of choice, we 
have a strong commitment to making our operations and 
those of our customers and suppliers more efficient. This 
is delivered through a market-leading network of service 
centres which ensures Weir products and services are 
available where and whenever our customers need them.
We rely on the dedication and commitment of our 15,000 
employees and I thank them for their efforts over the 
course of 2013. 
It is our strategic commitment to innovation, collaboration, 
value chain excellence and global capability which has 
helped deliver a solid performance in 2013 despite tough 
end market conditions. As the year progressed we  
revised down our second half expectations in response  
to the slower than anticipated recovery in certain markets. 
We still saw momentum build through the year as we 
delivered operational improvements across the business 
and fully captured growth opportunities for our extended 
product range. This delivered strong second half profits 
and cash generation in line with our updated guidance.
Our markets in 2013
Global economic growth remained subdued. While there 
was good momentum in North America and signs of 
recovery in Europe, emerging market growth slowed  
and contributed to declines in metal prices. In relation  
to our two largest exposures in the Minerals division, 
copper prices fell by over 10%, but long term prices 
remain supportive of investment. However gold prices  
fell nearly 30% to below incentive levels and close to 
marginal cost levels at many mines. 
Falling commodity prices, combined with project over-runs 
and senior management changes at a number of major 
mining companies, led to an increased concentration on 
efficiency and double-digit declines in capital spending. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STRA TEGIC REVIEW:
A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
FROM A ROBUST BUSINESS 
2013 was a challenging year in many  
of our end markets but our relative 
outperformance demonstrated the 
strength of the Group’s strategy,  
the diversity of our portfolio and the 
resilience of our aftermarket focussed 
business model. This was supported  
by a robust performance from Minerals 
and growing momentum in Oil & Gas  
as we saw a gradual recovery in 
upstream markets. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11
New projects were subject to increased scrutiny which 
led to fewer greenfield investments and those that 
proceeded were subject to delays. Mining companies 
identified brownfield investment as a key focus for future 
investment, given the lower risk and higher, faster returns 
typically available from such projects. 
Commissioning of already committed greenfield 
developments, particularly in South America, 
experienced delays as a result of regulatory and 
operational issues, which had a greater impact than 
initially anticipated. Despite this, and the overall fall  
in mining capital expenditure, global ore production 
continued to expand to meet growing demand.
In oil and gas, oil prices remained strong, supporting 
good growth in international upstream markets 
particularly in the Middle East. 
In North America, tight oil production continued to 
increase with the US on track to overtake Saudi Arabia  
as the world’s largest oil producer. Infrastructure 
constraints and export restrictions led to US oil prices 
trading at a discount to Brent Crude but they still remained 
supportive for investment. Natural gas prices remained 
below incentive levels resulting in a double-digit decline  
in gas drilling during 2013. Total upstream investment  
was slightly down with oil activity growing to almost 80% 
of rig activity by the year end. 
Despite a near 10% fall in the number of active rigs, the 
number of wells drilled only fell by 3% due to continuing 
drilling and completion efficiencies. This was contrary  
to an earlier market expectation that there would be an 
increase in activity, particularly in the second half of 2013. 
Specifically in pressure pumping, there was limited 
demand for capital equipment with a modest increase  
in frack fleet utilisation failing to eliminate excess 
capacity. Aftermarket demand rose through the year as 
customers progressively returned to more normalised 
buying patterns. There continued to be growing interest 
in developing shale resources internationally, particularly  
in China, Argentina, Australia and Saudi Arabia.
Downstream investment in Asia and the Middle East  
was robust with developments also under way in  
North America to address infrastructure constraints.
Global power markets remained subdued with North 
America impacted by reduced electricity prices as a 
consequence of low US natural gas prices. Nuclear markets 
showed tentative signs of improvement with project activity 
resuming in China and positive developments in the UK. 
General industrial activity levels continued to be subdued, 
reflecting the global economic environment.
Our performance in 2013
Overall, in a challenging year, order input in constant 
currency was up 3%, with an improving trend through  
the year such that second half orders were 13% higher 
than the equivalent period in 2012. Aftermarket input  
was up 16%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas  
and positive trends in Minerals, despite some earlier 
destocking in South America. In contrast, Power & 
Industrial aftermarket orders fell 2% as maintenance  
and outage work was delayed. Overall, aftermarket 
performance was offset by a 13% decline in original 
equipment with input across the Group reflecting 
double-digit declines in greenfield mining orders, 
overcapacity in pressure pumping and power project 
delays. Cross-selling the broader Minerals’ product 
portfolio partially compensated for these declines. 
Group revenues were down 4% on a constant currency 
basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket 
sales increased to 63% from 55% in 2012. In Minerals, 
revenues were flat, with good aftermarket growth offset 
by declines in original equipment. Despite the benefits  
of the Mathena acquisition, Oil & Gas revenues declined 
as good aftermarket growth was more than offset by 
substantial reductions in original equipment sales as a 
result of a smaller opening order book and continued 
subdued Pressure Pumping equipment demand. Power & 
Industrial revenues were also broadly flat as tough hydro 
markets offset good growth in the core Valves portfolio. 
Despite falling revenues and increasingly competitive 
markets, Group margins were maintained at record levels 
translating into a 4% fall in operating profit to £467m. 
Negative operating leverage effects were offset by value 
chain initiatives which delivered over £40m in direct 
procurement savings and increased efficiencies across 
the Group. In addition, the same initiatives contributed  
to a reduction in net working capital. Free cashflow 
increased to £168m, even after capital investment 
totalling £108m, which will underpin future growth 
opportunities.
Beyond our influence were the fluctuations of the 
international currency markets which saw significant 
shifts in exchange rates in the second half of the year, 
with the Australian Dollar and emerging markets 
currencies experiencing double-digit devaluations  
and our largest trading currency, the US Dollar, also 
depreciating significantly against Sterling. These
foreign exchange movements contributed to reported 
pre-tax profits being 5% lower than 2012.
1.   Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation.
Revenue
£2,430m 
-4%
Operating profit
1
£467m 
-4% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 12
Strategic Report: 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A strategy that produces long term value
At Weir we have four strategic pillars which are the 
foundation of our continued success and the source  
of long term value for our shareholders. Over the course 
of 2013, important progress was made in delivering 
further innovation, collaboration, value chain excellence 
and extending our global capability.
Innovation is part of Weir’s DNA. Our company was 
originally founded in 1871 by engineers who invented  
a more efficient way to operate steam ship pumps. 
Almost a century and a half later we are still innovating  
to bring our customers leading engineering solutions. 
In 2013, this meant establishing a comminution range, 
extending Minerals’ addressable market by circa £1bn  
and opening up new opportunities to apply our 
differentiated materials expertise. During the year, the first 
orders for High Pressure Grinding Rolls were received and 
we saw good growth from our expanded screens range.
 
The Minerals division also increased revenues from 
non-mining equipment markets with notable contract 
wins in the oil sands sector in Canada and the coal-seam 
gas industry in Australia. 
In Oil & Gas, our Pressure Pumping bundling strategy, 
which packages together our full product offering, 
delivered aftermarket revenues at levels last seen at the 
peak of the market despite a reduction in overall market 
activity. In Pressure Control, we successfully entered the 
flowback and zipper manifold markets towards the end  
of the year. 
By helping to make our customers more efficient we  
are ensuring our future success too. That is why we  
have a clear strategic focus on collaboration. This was 
demonstrated in September when we signed a global 
framework agreement with Anglo American which will  
see our differentiated mining technology rolled out across 
the world, supported by our market-leading service 
network. Internally, products have been leveraged 
through the Oil & Gas forum which provides a platform  
for cross-divisional co-operation. Products developed 
through the forum generated £14m in revenues in 2013, 
with swellable packers a particular success. 
As a Group operating in 70 countries we have a 
reputation for supporting our customers wherever they 
need us. This means constantly improving our global 
capability, including expanding our market leading global 
service centre network to almost 200 locations. This 
delivers real competitive advantages as demonstrated 
by the early progress of Pressure Pumping operations  
in China alongside good further development in the 
Middle East. Power & Industrial produced a strong 
performance in South Korea as the division continued  
to expand in structural growth markets. We increased  
our manufacturing capacity in other key growth markets 
with our purchase of the Xmeco foundry in South Africa 
and the Cheong foundry in Malaysia. We announced 
plans to further expand our operations in Malaysia with 
the development of a new foundry, machine shop and  
Linatex rubber processing facility. The acquisition of  
the Canada-based R Wales group of companies also 
extends our aftermarket position in the production  
and servicing of a wide range of rubber-lined wear 
components for the North American oil sands and  
mining sectors. 
As well as pursuing new market opportunities we have 
focussed on improving our own operational processes.  
That is why value chain excellence is core to our strategy.  
By becoming a more efficient operation we can sharpen  
our performance and enhance our responsiveness to 
customers. Significant progress has been made leveraging 
the Group’s procurement capability to deliver substantial 
efficiency gains. We are also developing closer relationships 
with key suppliers, using our lean operating process
to help reduce customer lead times.
Essential to the successful achievement of our strategy  
is our people. At Weir, we take great care to ensure our 
highly skilled workforce is given the opportunity to 
achieve its full potential. Progress has been made to 
extend the support available for all of our people from 
apprentices to senior managers. Succession planning 
has continued to advance, with processes in place to 
ensure we have the engineers and leaders to deliver 
growth going forward. 
Two new appointments to the Group Executive were 
made at the beginning of 2014. John Heasley succeeded 
Kevin Spencer as Divisional Managing Director of Power 
& Industrial following Kevin’s retirement, and Andrew 
Neilson was appointed Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Affairs.
Safety
Everyone at Weir shares an ambition to make our 
company a zero-accident workplace. I have given  
a personal guarantee to all of our employees that  
I will support them in their right to stop any work they  
feel could be unsafe. The importance of continuous  
safety improvement was sadly reinforced during 2013 
when a colleague was killed in a road traffic incident.  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
CONTINUED
Capital investment
£108m Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13
This was a tragic reminder of the need to ensure our safety 
culture extends beyond our operational environment.  
I firmly believe our zero-accident ambition is achievable. 
Significant progress has been made and I am pleased  
to see a reduction in our Total Incident Rate (TIR) this  
year but more needs to be done and will be done over  
the course of 2014.
Delivering on 2013 key priorities
In 2013 we identified a series of key priorities for the year:
Continue to enhance supply chain performance to 
increase customer responsiveness and benefit from 
Group leverage. Established new centres of excellence 
helping to deliver Group-wide procurement savings 
equivalent to more than 3% of expenditure and in excess 
of our £30m target.
Capture North American and international Pressure 
Control growth opportunities. Entry to the flowback and 
zipper manifold markets was achieved with first wellhead 
orders secured in the Middle East and Australia.
Extend Minerals’ presence in comminution markets. 
Agreement was secured to give Weir exclusive control 
over the design, manufacture and distribution of KHD 
High Pressure Grinding Rolls (HPGR) for use in minerals 
processing applications – with the first HPGR orders  
now received. A partnership with Taiwan-based Minyu 
Machinery Corporation was signed to distribute and 
develop cone crusher technology.
Drive growth through an integrated global valves 
platform. Valve orders were broadly stable year on  
year although momentum increased in the last quarter. 
Significant progress was achieved in improving 
operational capacity to allow us to take advantage of  
future growth opportunities.
Deliver an enhanced IT platform to support greater 
collaboration. Work is under way on enhancing internal 
networks and developing common enterprise resource 
planning systems in each division which will enable the 
Group to operate more efficiently on a global scale.
Improve working capital performance to enhance 
returns. While it took longer to demonstrate progress 
than I would have liked, it was encouraging to see a net 
working capital reduction in the second half of 2013, 
although there is still further work to be done.
Outlook
The Group remains well positioned to benefit from  
the long term structural growth drivers in each of our 
principal end markets. Demand for minerals will be 
underpinned by continuing population growth and the 
industrialisation and urbanisation of emerging markets. 
Growing desire for energy security and competitiveness 
will support the further development of unconventional  
oil and gas resources in North America and beyond. 
Increasing energy usage in emerging markets, 
environmental concerns and ageing power plants in 
developed markets will drive demand for new and 
refurbished power infrastructure. As easier to reach
and higher quality resources become more scarce, 
increasingly complex solutions are needed to access 
more difficult to reach natural resources placing greater 
demands on the engineering equipment provided by  
the Group. 
In 2014, we anticipate that the Group will return to 
underlying growth despite mixed end market conditions. 
We will continue to capture profitable aftermarket 
opportunities, cross selling our full product portfolio 
across all of our end markets and delivering further 
efficiencies from our Value Chain Excellence initiatives.  
We expect good constant currency revenue and profit 
growth with Group margins broadly in line with 2013 
levels, although our reported results are likely to be 
impacted by recent adverse foreign currency movements. 
Strong cash generation is expected to continue assisted 
by further working capital initiatives.
2014 key priorities
In 2014, we will aim to grow ahead of our end markets by:
• Increasing technical differentiation through the pursuit 
of innovative new products.
• Improving working capital performance by further 
extending value chain excellence initiatives.
• Further embedding safety at the heart of our culture.
• Fully capturing growing aftermarket opportunities  
in Minerals and accelerating progress in our 
comminution strategy.
• Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback and 
broadening international oil and gas opportunities.
• Accelerate Valves growth building on a strengthened 
operational platform.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
26 February 2014
Aftermarket input
+16% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 14
Strategic Report: 
Strategy in Action Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15
Case study
Three years ago, in collaboration with the University of Strathclyde, 
Weir launched a dedicated research facility in the University’s 
Technology and Innovation Centre in Glasgow, with investment  
of almost £2 million to date. The Weir Advanced Research Centre 
(WARC) is designed to review specific project proposals from 
Weir’s global businesses, ranging from immediate product 
improvement opportunities to long-term advanced research 
activities.
After initial filtering and prioritisation, selected projects are ratified 
by the Weir Group Executive before being assigned to the research 
team. A small leadership team from Weir and the University 
regularly review the direction and progress of selected projects  
to ensure project objectives and timescales are met.
The facility provides the Group with access to dedicated academic 
resource and research capability and broadens and complements 
Weir’s current engineering research capabilities.
Recently, in the Power & Industrial division, WARC helped the team 
develop a greater understanding of high pressure static face seals 
and the influences that affect the seal tightness. This has increased 
Weir’s knowledge and understanding and will enable engineers 
and designers to develop the next generation of seal designs,  
with increased performance, efficiency and safety.
Creating products, technology and service models  
to provide the Group and our customers with 
competitive advantage.
STRA TEGY IN ACTION: 
INNOVATION
ENHANCES OUR
COMPETITIVE
ADVANTAGE
How we do it:
•  Investing in engineering skills  
and research.
•  Investing in operational capability.
• Developing innovation as part of  
our culture. 
What we did in 2013:
• Further investment in the Weir 
Advanced Research Centre.
• Developed new products and 
entered new markets.
• Rolled out enhanced product  
introduction process.
Benefits to Weir:
• Technological advantage.
• Maintain market leadership.
• Access to adjacent markets.
• Increased sales and returns.
Benefits to our 
customers:
• Greater operating efficiencies.
• Lower environmental impact.
• Predictable maintenance cycles.
• Competitive advantage. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 16
Strategic Report: 
Strategy in Action
Working with customers, suppliers, communities  
and colleagues ensures a better understanding of  
the markets we serve, and their evolving technology  
and support requirements.
Case study
Greater collaboration across Weir’s divisions allows the Group to 
work closer together to meet and exceed customer expectations 
and requirements.
In 2011, Weir established an internal Oil & Gas forum to create  
new solutions for customers and more opportunities for Weir within 
the oil and gas markets. Through collaboration and innovation 
amongst the three Weir Group divisions, the forum set out to bring 
new and existing products and expertise to oil and gas customers.
Weir Minerals has applied more than 25 years of experience  
in high-performance rubber compounds to a line of swellable 
packers including the STAMPEDE™ packer, designed to facilitate 
efficient downhole application and enhanced sealing ability  
during hydraulic fracturing.
By enhancing the sealing around wells, customers can benefit 
from greater operational efficiency. As a result, the product has 
been able to support increased demand for more efficient 
products in the North America oil and gas market.
How we do it:
•  Work together to secure contracts, 
develop products and expand globally.
•  Develop deep relationships with 
customers to provide engineering 
solutions across the product life cycle.
• Create industry alliances to support 
growth into new markets.
What we did in 2013:
•  Worked together across divisions  
to bring new products to market.
•  Expanded service centre network.
•  Brought existing expertise to new 
markets, including coal-seam gas. 
Benefits to Weir:
• Customer intimacy.
• Providing Group capability  
across all markets.
• Strong, sustainable relationships  
with local communities.
• Maximising returns on assets  
and intellectual capital. 
Benefits to  
our customers:
•  Technology and solutions 
partnerships.
• Anticipation of future needs.
• Reduction of operating complexity.
• Multi-end market knowledge.
£5m
£5m in revenues from swellable 
packers developed by the cross-
divisional Oil & Gas forum.
STRA TEGY IN ACTION: 
COLLABORATION
LEVERAGING OUR
CAPABILITIES Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 17 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 18
Strategic Report: 
Strategy in Action
Developing our lean operating platform across the 
customer fulfilment process, from order to delivery.
STRA TEGY IN ACTION: 
VALUE CHAIN
EXCELLENCE 
IMPROVING 
EFFICIENCY
Case study
As one of the world’s largest diversified mining and natural 
resource groups, Anglo American seeks to minimise its 
environmental impact, at the same time as maximising its 
production efficiency. Anglo American conducted total cost of 
ownership benchmarking of slurry pumping, with Weir solutions 
providing significant productivity advantages and energy 
consumption improvements. 
In September 2013, this led to the signing of a Global Framework 
Agreement (GFA) between Weir and Anglo American.
The GFA will see Weir working together with Anglo American  
to improve energy consumption and lower maintenance 
requirements across its operations in South Africa, South America, 
North America and Australia. It will also see Weir accelerate the 
roll out of its Wear Reduction Technology across Anglo American’s 
installed Warman pumps.
Future opportunities may also see the piloting of innovative  
Weir Mill Circuit Technology, promotion of the WBH range  
of slurry pumps and wider use of Cavex hydro-cyclones in 
dewatering applications.
How we do it:
•  Embedding customer needs  
in technology development.
• Working with suppliers to improve 
processes.
• Working with each other to pool 
expertise across our three end 
markets.
What we did in 2013:
• Introduced new service models  
to enhance customer experience.
• Worked with supply base to  
improve quality and cost.
• Signed landmark Global Framework 
Agreement with Anglo American. 
Benefits to Weir:
• Culture of continuous improvement.
• Reducing waste.
• Supply chain savings.
• Increased profitability, cash  
and returns on capital. 
Benefits to  
our customers:
• Enhanced product and service quality.
• Greater understanding of  
customer operations.
• Competitively priced solutions.
• Reduced lead times and improved  
on time delivery. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19
Photo courtesy of Anglo American. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 20
Strategic Report: 
Strategy in Action Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21
Case study
In October 2013 we announced a major investment of £70m over 
the next three years in our operations in Malaysia. The investment 
will increase our capacity within the fast growing Asia-Pacific 
region through the creation of an additional foundry, machine shop 
and a second Linatex continuous rubber processing plant on a 
purpose built campus approximately 70km from Kuala Lumpur.
The foundry and machine shop will expand the production of 
high quality castings sourced at best cost. Meanwhile the rubber 
line will increase our ability to supply the growing demand for 
Linatex products, a 95% natural rubber product used in the 
mining industry which exhibits outstanding resilience, strength 
and resistance to cutting, tearing and abrasion. The new campus 
will be built on a 55 acre site with the new foundry capable of 
producing 6,000 tonnes a year with the potential to expand 
capacity up to 12,000 tonnes as demand increases.
The investment is one of the largest engineering investments 
in Malaysia by a UK company and will result in our workforce 
in the country more than doubling, from 400 to over 1,000. The 
investment will also support our operations outside the country, 
including our valve manufacturing facility in Elland, West Yorkshire. 
Over the course of 2014, Elland will double production levels to 
cope with increasing demand from its global customers.
At the time of the announcement, UK Prime Minister David 
Cameron said: “This is yet another sign of a UK company winning 
in the global race. The Weir Group is a fine example of Scottish 
engineering excellence”.
£70m
£70 million investment in 
Malaysian operations over  
the next three years.
Providing uniform excellence in service and solutions, 
wherever our customers are, whenever they are needed.
STRA TEGY IN ACTION: 
GLOBAL CAPABILITY 
GETTING CLOSER TO
OUR CUSTOMERS
How we do it:
•  Establish global manufacturing 
facilities.
•  Grow global service centre capacity.
• Create strategic alliances to 
strengthen the supply chain.
What we did in 2013:
• Acquired additional foundry  
capacity in Malaysia and  
South Africa.
•  Added ten new service centres.
•  Shared ‘lean’ operational principles  
with key suppliers. 
Benefits to Weir:
•  Worldwide routes to market.
•  D i v e r s e r e v e n u e s.
•  Leveraging single solutions 
worldwide.
• Developing cross-Group best 
practice.
Benefits to  
our customers:
•  Global consistency of products  
and service.
•  Rap i d s u p p or t .
•  Trusted operational performance.
•  Partnerships with solutions experts. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 22
Strategic Report: 
Key Performance Indicators
MONITORING 
OUR PERFORMANCE
Key Performance Indicators
Strategic goals and priorities
 
 
Input
1
  
(£m)
 
Operating 
margin
2
 
(%)
Free  
cash 
flow 
(£m)
Return  
on capital 
employed
3
 
(£m)
 
 
Inventory 
turns
4
 
Total 
Incident 
Rate (TIR)
5
Innovation
 
Collaboration 
Value chain excellence 
 
 
Global capability 
 
 
Strengthen and extend  
addressable markets in 
minerals, oil and gas and 
power sectors 
Attain status of partner 
of choice for engineered 
products and services  
in our chosen markets 
1. Calculated at 2013 average exchange rates.
2. Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
3. Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Mathena and Wales EBIT and exceptional items) divided by average net assets excluding net debt,  
pension deficit (net of deferred tax asset) and Mathena and Wales net assets. 2011: As 2012/13 but also excluding Seaboard.
4.  As reported 2011 excluding Seaboard.
5. 2013 average v 2012 and 2011 averages measuring medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided by 200,000 hours worked. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
2,431
2011
2,384
2012
2,462
2013
10%
20%
30%
40%
29.2
2011
22.2
2012
19.3
2013
16%
17%
18%
19%
20%
18.0
2011
19.1
2012
19.2
2013
1
2
3
4
3.4
2011
3.1
2012
3.0
2013
60
120
180
29
2011
62
2012
168
2013
1
2
3
4
5
1.6
3.4
2012 2011
1.0
2013
The Board uses a range of financial and non- 
financial metrics, reported on a periodic basis,  
to monitor the Group’s performance over time.
Excluding acquisitions and disposals  
input for the year increased by 2% despite 
challenging end market conditions
• Group input increased as a result of a 
strong aftermarket performance, with 
trends improving as the year progressed.
• Each division continued to broaden its 
portfolio by developing and launching  
new products.
• We extended our geographic presence  
by expanding our service network.
Strong cash generation
• Free cash flow increased substantially 
following a strong second half 
performance.
• Working capital inflows of £22m in  
the second half partially offset first  
half outflows.
• Each division continued to invest in long 
term growth with a total of £108m being 
invested in capital expenditure.
Record margin levels maintained
• Record operating margins were maintained 
in 2013 despite competitive markets.
• Minerals achieved margins above 
expectations, Power & Industrial remained 
broadly stable and Oil & Gas declined 
slightly mainly due to Pressure Pumping 
market dynamics.
• An increased focus on operational and 
procurement initiatives helped support 
margins by reducing costs.
Inventory turns fell as stock levels 
reflected increased Q4 activity
• Total inventory declined by 5% in 2013, 
despite Q4 output being 8% higher year 
on year.
• Inventory turns improved by 8% in the 
second half of the year due to value chain 
excellence initiatives.
• Inventory levels in the Oil & Gas division 
continue to reflect excess capacity in  
the industry but are declining.
Reduction reflecting lower profits  
and continuing investment in long  
term growth
• ROCE fell year on year due to lower profits 
combined with further investment in fixed 
assets and working capital.
• Oil & Gas returns fell reflecting lower 
revenues and profits.
• Minerals’ and Power & Industrial’s  
returns were broadly maintained.
Incident rate reduced by more than  
a third over the course of 2013
• Roll out of the Weir Environment,  
Health and Safety system underpinned 
substantial safety improvement.
• The rolling programme of safety audits 
continues to identify opportunities to 
improve performance across the Group.
• The Behavioural Safety System has raised 
cultural awareness of safety at all levels  
of the business.
Key Performance Indicators:  
Monitoring and evaluating  
our performance 
Input
1
 (£m)
£2,462m 
+3%
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
3
 (%)
19.3% 
-290bps
Operating margin
2
 (%)
19.2% 
+10bps
Inventory turns
4
3.0 times 
-0.1 times
Free cash flow (£m)
£168m 
+171%
Total Incident Rate (TIR)
5
1.0 
-38% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 24
Strategic Report: 
How We Manage Risk
Identify
the risks
Quantify the
gross risk
Monitor
and report
controls are required
Identify if further
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
mitigating controls
Identify the existing
the net risk
Quantify
The risk agenda
We operate in a complex global environment, where risks offer opportunities as well as challenges. Our objective is to allow our people  
to be decisive, so we can take advantage of attractive opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing the organisation to excessive risk. 
During 2013, the Board agreed a Risk Appetite Statement for the Group. The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement is to highlight the risks  
that we should be willing to take, as well as those which are unacceptable. The Risk Appetite Statement includes a series of risk assertions 
which are aligned to our strategy, together with the risk parameters within which we expect our people to work. The risk appetite is all  
of the risk assertions and the parameters taken together. The parameters can apply to more than one risk assertion, therefore the individual 
risk assertions should not be read in isolation. Compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement is monitored through the Group’s standard 
monitoring and reporting mechanisms. The Board will review and update the Risk Appetite Statement on an annual basis. Details of the review 
of the internal control and risk management systems undertaken during the year are contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 79.
Risk management 
The management of risks is at the core of the internal control framework. We have a risk management policy which defines how we expect 
risks to be identified, assessed, and managed throughout the organisation. 
Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms 
of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both 
before and after control mitigation. Assessing 
the gross risk before control mitigation also 
allows the business to review the relative 
impact of the existing controls by comparing 
the gross and net risk assessment. This  
also allows the business to avoid wasting 
resources on mitigating controls and  
actions which have a negligible impact  
on the risk assessment. 
The impact of risks is quantified across  
a range of factors including: financial; 
reputation; people and property; ability to 
perform services; regulation; environment, 
health & safety; and investors and funding. 
The risk management policy includes defined 
criteria for each risk impact factor, supporting 
a consistent measurement approach. Risk 
management takes place at the grassroots 
level, for example in individual projects, all the 
way up to Group level assessments, thereby 
providing an integrated bottom-up and 
top-down approach to risk management.
Strategic  
risk
Industry and market 
downturns.
Technological 
advances.
Pricing pressures.
Acquisitions  
and mergers.
Planning and 
resource allocation.
Hazard  
risk
Political and  
social instability. 
Natural disasters 
and other major 
incidents.
Fraud and 
corruption.
Environmental and 
safety incidents.
Operational 
risk
People.
Delivery and  
supply chain.
Quality.
Commercial.
Communication.
IT.
Cyber security.
Compliance 
risk
Laws and 
regulations.
Code of Conduct.
Environment,  
health & safety.
Governance.
Intellectual property.
Financial  
risk 
Financial 
management.
Credit.
Debt and  
interest rates.
Foreign exchange.
Accounting  
and reporting. 
Taxation.
Internal fraud.
The specific risks identified across the business generally fall under one of the categories within the ‘Risk Universe’ as shown below.
Figure 1: Risk management cycle
Figure 2: Risk Universe
HOW WE MANAGE RISK Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25
Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters. Our response to such risks is having controls which lessen 
the impact to our business should they occur. For example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce the risk of harm 
to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers. 
Risk appetite statement
The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with long term high growth potential. We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and  
we are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the 
parameters below.
Risk assertions Risk parameters
1.  Organic growth: We will aggressively pursue divisional organic 
growth strategies to meet our market growth objectives. 
 Investment of resources will be consistent with divisional strategies 
and divisional compound annual growth rates over five-year plans. 
2.  Mergers and acquisitions: We will actively pursue M&A 
opportunities that enhance our strategic platform subject  
to meeting investment criteria. 
 Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within three years 
of the acquisition.
3.  Returns and profitability: We will not pursue growth at all costs  
and expect high margins, strong returns on capital and working 
capital discipline. 
Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry  
but over the cycle we aim for top quartile operating margins and 
returns on capital.
4.  C a p i t al al l o ca t i o n : We will encourage capex in pursuit of our 
growth ambitions subject to Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and 
achievement of Group free cash flow targets.
Planned IRR on capital expenditure projects should not be less  
than 20%.
5.  Capital structure: We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit  
of our growth agenda and will actively seek low cost debt to  
fund the Group but will maintain significant headroom against  
our financial covenants.
We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt/EBITDA below two times  
(current financial covenants 3.5 times).
Maintain financing facility headroom of at least £150m.
6.  Reputation and brand image: We will manage/avoid situations  
or actions that could have a negative impact on our reputation  
and brands.
No tolerance for breaches of:
• Legislative/statutory requirements.
• Weir Code of Conduct.
• International sanctions.
• Delegated authority levels.
• Group and divisional policies.
7.  Environment, health and safety (EHS): We will not undertake  
or pursue activities that pose unacceptable hazard or risk  
to our people, the communities in which we operate, or the  
broader environment.
Total Incident Rate ≤1 and EHS Audit Score >40%.
Active community and environmental engagement is expected.
No tolerance for breaches of Weir EHS system.
8.  New entry to countries: We are prepared to enter new  
countries which offer opportunities for growth consistent with  
our overall strategy. We will not enter countries which present  
a high risk of harm to our people, damage to our reputation,  
or breach of international sanctions.
 No tolerance for breaches of:
• Legislative/statutory requirements. 
• Weir Code of Conduct.
• International sanctions.
• Delegated authority levels.
• Group and divisional policies. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 26
Strategic Report: 
How We Manage Risk
Risk responsibilities and reporting
Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the Group’s risk and internal control framework. It has set out the decisions, and hence the level  
of risk, which can be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and operational company management without requiring escalation.  
This is articulated in a series of Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as the parameters within the Risk Appetite Statement.  
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 71. 
The bottom-up risk reporting requires key risks identified, and reported, at project level to be escalated to the operating company management, 
which in turn may be escalated to divisional management, and ultimately to the Risk Committee and the Board. This is achieved through risk 
dashboard reports, which are maintained at operating company, divisional and Group level. The dashboards provide a summary of the top  
ten net risks at each respective level, as well as a summary of the key mitigating controls and actions, and further control actions required.  
The Risk Committee monitors quarterly risk dashboard reports from the operating companies and divisions. In addition, the Risk Committee 
has oversight of the Group Risk Dashboard, providing an update to the Board at each Board meeting. The Board obtains assurance over risks 
through the internal control framework. More information on the internal control framework can be found in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 67 and in the Audit Committee Report on page 82.
Board and  
sub-committees
Group Executive
Risk Committee
Operating company management
Divisional management
Policies and decisions
Reporting
Figure 3: Risk responsibilities and reporting
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27
The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below:
Risk management responsibilities 
Board
Overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management and internal 
control frameworks, and strategic decisions within the Group.
• Annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management,  
risk appetite and internal control frameworks.
• Review of risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
• Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee 
Delegated responsibility from the Board to review the effectiveness  
of the Group’s risk and internal control frameworks.
• Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management 
and internal control frameworks.
• Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
• Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment  
compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee
Management committee responsible for governance of the Group’s 
Risk Management Policy and Framework. 
• Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk 
Management Policy and Framework.
• Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, 
identification of the key controls mitigating those risks, and 
identification of further actions where necessary.
• Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards considering the 
appropriateness of management’s responses to identified risks,  
and assessing whether there are any gaps.
• Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive
Executive committee with overall responsibility for managing the 
Group to ensure we achieve our strategic objectives.
• Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
• Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance 
indicators relating to strategic objectives.
• Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated  
authority matrices.
• Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Excellence Committees
Engineering
Environment, Health & Safety
Finance
HR
IT
Manufacturing
Planning
Purchasing
Value Chain
Management committees with representatives from across the  
Group in their respective areas of focus. The committees govern 
activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
• Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated 
with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
• Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards related to the respective remits of the 
Excellence Committees.
• Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
• Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
• Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Divisional management
Responsible for managing the businesses within the divisions  
to ensure divisional strategic objectives are achieved and there  
is compliance with Group policies and standards throughout  
their division.
• Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of the Divisions’ strategic objectives.
• Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards within the divisions with regard to the 
outputs from the Excellence Committees.
• Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
• Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
• Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management 
Responsible for ensuring company objectives are achieved and 
business activities are conducted in accordance with Group  
policies and standards.
• Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery  
of their company’s strategic objectives.
• Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards within their company.
• Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices. 
• Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence 
Committees as required.
• Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 28
Strategic Report: 
How We Manage Risk
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
CONTINUED
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Global, economic and market conditions
Changes in key 
markets, including 
mining and 
upstream oil and 
gas, and/or political 
conditions have 
an adverse impact 
on customers’ 
expenditure plans. 
This may include 
delaying existing 
expenditure 
commitments. 
We need to remain sufficiently flexible to allow us to  
meet growth in demand when our customers’ markets 
are buoyant and therefore capital investment is high,  
and equally foresee downturns and/or instability 
in territories, to allow us to adjust our operations 
accordingly. Otherwise, we are at risk of not maximising 
our potential for growth in buoyant markets, and 
incurring unnecessary costs during downturns.
• We maintain regular engagement with our customers 
to understand their needs and challenges, and 
ensure our business is appropriately aligned.
• Our strategic planning utilises extensive market 
intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities  
and dips in markets, as well as potential political  
and social instability in regions. 
• We maintain contingency plans for downturns  
and exits from unstable regions. 
Technology and innovation
We fail to drive 
innovation to ensure 
that the business 
continues to deliver 
sustainable and 
attractive solutions 
for our customers.
The strength of our business is built upon a history of 
delivering innovative and sustainable solutions for our 
customers. If we fail to keep abreast of market needs  
or to innovate solutions we are at risk of losing market 
share to our competitors and lowering margins as 
demand will reduce. 
• Continual investment in research and development, 
including the Weir Advanced Research Centre in 
conjunction with the University of Strathclyde. 
• We have a dedicated governance team (Engineering 
Excellence Committee) focussed on the delivery of  
our strategic objectives for technological advances  
and innovation in manufacturing practices to meet  
the needs of our customers.
Environment, health & safety (EHS)
Failure to adequately 
protect our 
people and other 
stakeholders from 
harm associated 
with a breach in 
EHS standards.
We operate in hazardous environments, and therefore 
have a fundamental duty to protect our people and other 
stakeholders from harm whilst conducting our business. 
As well as the personal impact on our people resulting 
from a failure to meet this obligation, we would also be 
at risk of:
• reputational damage leading to a loss of business;
• legal action from regulators including fines and 
penalties; and
• exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
• The Weir EHS Management System is in place  
to reduce the risk of safety incidents. In addition, 
there are initiatives to prevent the most common 
accident types. The Weir global EHS standards are 
continually reviewed. 
• The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for 
monitoring performance and compliance with Group 
objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS. 
• There is a formal EHS assurance programme  
with issues escalated as required through the 
reporting structures. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
As in any business, there may be unforeseen issues which could impact the Group’s ability to achieve its objectives in the future. However,  
we believe the Group’s risk management framework makes this less likely. The principal risks set out below are those which we believe to  
have the greatest potential to impact our ability to achieve the Group’s strategic priorities. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
Ethics and governance
Interactions with our 
people, customers, 
suppliers and other 
stakeholders are 
not conducted 
with the highest 
standards of integrity 
which devalues 
our reputation.
We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt 
behaviour from our people, or external parties acting  
on our behalf, whilst conducting our business. If we  
fail to act with integrity we are at risk of:
• reputational damage leading to a loss of customers;
• increased scrutiny from regulators; 
• legal action from regulators including fines, penalties 
and imprisonment; and
• exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
• The Code of Conduct, supplemented with 
Group policies on related topics, provides a clear 
benchmark for how we expect our business will  
be conducted. 
• Regular training is provided using a range of 
mechanisms including ‘Town Hall’ style sessions,  
online and induction training.
• The financial control framework is continually 
monitored for effectiveness. 
• Internal Audit’s remit includes regular review  
of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial  
controls across the Group. The Group legal team  
is responsible for monitoring compliance with the  
Code of Conduct.
• A Group-wide crisis management plan has been 
developed and rolled out across the organisation  
and is subject to periodic testing and regular review. 
Supply chain
We fail to adequately 
manage the supply 
chain thereby 
reducing our 
ability to meet 
customer demand 
in an economic and 
efficient manner.
Our supply chain is dependent upon a number of factors 
including having sufficient manufacturing capacity, 
access to raw materials and key components, integrated 
sales and production planning, and skilled people. If we 
fail to meet the delivery targets agreed with customers as 
a result of a failure in the supply chain we risk:
• damaging our reputation and as a consequence 
losing customers and market share;
• incurring penalties as a result of late delivery 
contractual clauses; and
• reducing margins by incurring unnecessary additional 
costs associated with late remedial actions taken to 
avoid missing delivery targets. 
• There is an established engagement framework  
with key suppliers. 
• Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain 
throughout the organisation. 
• The Value Chain Excellence Committee monitors 
performance and compliance with Group objectives, 
policies and standards relating to procurement. 
• Centres of Excellence have been established to  
drive efficiencies and enhance delivery standards 
whilst maintaining quality. 
• There is a developing Group-wide approach to 
inventory control, sales and operational planning. 
Political and social risk 
Adverse political 
action, or political 
and social instability, 
in territories in 
which we operate 
may result in 
strategic, financial 
or personnel loss 
to the Group.
We operate across the globe and therefore have  
to work within a wide range of political and social 
conditions. Adverse events may occur in the territories 
in which we operate that may require us to act swiftly 
to protect our people, property and to maintain our 
competitiveness. Expansions into new territories are  
only undertaken after rigorous assessment of the  
risks, including the social and political situation within  
the territory. 
• Regular review of market attractiveness. 
• Monitoring travel by Weir employees to higher  
risk locations.
• External expert risk assessments and  
regular monitoring in higher risk locations. 
• Contingency plans and exit strategy planning.
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories
Inadequate planning 
and management 
of the integration 
and expansion 
processes impacts 
the ability to 
generate growth 
opportunities, 
synergies and cost 
savings within 
expected timescales.
Acquisitions and expansions into new territories are 
only undertaken after rigorous review and identification 
of expected synergies, cost savings and growth 
opportunities. However, there is a risk that these benefits 
may not be achieved, or may not be achieved within the 
anticipated timescales, thereby tying up the Group’s 
funds in investments with insufficient returns. There is 
also a risk that we could be left liable for past acts or 
omissions of the acquired businesses without adequate 
right of redress. 
• The strategic planning process includes market  
and competitive position assessments to drive  
the acquisition agenda. 
• Comprehensive due diligence is performed on  
all potential acquisitions. 
• We have a formal 100 day integration plan with 
dedicated integration directors and managers 
appointed to oversee and manage the full  
integration programme. 
• We seek to secure appropriate legal protection  
against potential liabilities and to secure rights of 
redress against sellers where such liability arises. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 30
Strategic Report: 
How We Manage Risk
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
CONTINUED
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk
IT security and continuity 
Failure to maintain 
business systems 
or technical 
infrastructure that 
serves the business 
needs. Failure to 
adequately protect 
the business 
operations from 
cyber crime. 
Up-to-date data allows us to make informed decisions 
about our business. Therefore we require reliable and 
efficient IT systems and infrastructure to provide our  
data requirements. Breaches of our IT security could 
have serious consequences for our business including:
• interruption to business operations; and
• loss of intellectual property and other valuable data. 
The Group is investing in a significant IT transformation 
programme. If this is not managed effectively the 
consequences could include:
• the business becomes too internally focussed whilst 
the change is under way, and we fail to maintain our 
focus on delivering for our customers; and
• interruption to business operations if data is 
unavailable due to unsuccessful execution of change. 
All of which could impact our ability to compete and our 
reputation in the market.
• We continually review the effectiveness of our  
key IT security controls in consultation with  
external experts.
• There is regular reporting of IT incidents and potential 
security breaches, with lessons learned across  
the Group.
• Significant and ongoing investment in the IT 
infrastructure and key systems. 
• We have an IT Governance Framework with a focus 
on structured change management techniques, 
including setting project governance levels in line 
with risk.
• Full time programme and project team appointments, 
with adequate succession planning for internal 
appointments. 
• Regular programme and project monitoring.
• External assurance being obtained on major  
IT transformation projects reporting through  
Internal Audit.
• Close liaison with UK Government bodies  
in regard to cyber crime risk.
Cost competitiveness 
Failure to deliver 
cost competitive 
products and 
services, or failure 
to deliver sufficiently 
differentiated 
products and 
services which justify 
a price premium 
through lowest total 
cost of ownership 
value propositions.
Customers are increasingly focussed on the price 
competitiveness of products and services as they 
seek to lower operating costs. If the Group fails to 
demonstrate the value of our products and services  
it risks losing market position.
• There is continual focus on maximising the efficiency  
of our products to ensure the solutions provided to 
customers deliver the best overall value, allowing our 
customers to meet their cost reduction strategies 
through lower energy costs and improved productivity.
• Centres of Excellence are driving cost efficiencies, 
whilst maintaining quality.
• Expansion of production in best cost locations, 
including foundry expansions in Malaysia and  
South Africa. 
• We regularly monitor market activity to ensure we  
remain competitive. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31
OPERA TIONAL REVIEW
WEIR MINERALS 
DIVISION
2013 saw the division continue to deliver 
strong results and growing profits despite 
challenging trading conditions. We did this 
by building closer relationships with our 
customers and using our market-leading 
position to offer a broader range of 
differentiated products which provide 
attractive aftermarket benefits. This 
performance was supported by initiatives 
which delivered increased procurement 
and efficiency savings.
Market drivers
Mining sector capital expenditure fell by an estimated 
16% in 2013 as metals prices continued to decline  
from 2011 highs. Greenfield projects were hardest  
hit as mining companies switched their priorities from 
new projects to maximising returns from their current 
operations. This drive towards optimisation supported 
largely unchanged maintenance and brownfield  
capital expenditure.
Some new projects experienced order delays as 
customers continued to adopt a cautious approach to 
large investments. In addition, ongoing projects were 
subject to delay. This was particularly evident in South 
America where developments were postponed by 
regulatory and operational issues. 
Prices continued to remain above incentive levels for  
key commodities including copper and iron ore. This,  
in addition to the commissioning of some greenfield 
projects, supported an estimated 3% growth in global  
ore production. 
Regionally, there was strong growth in Africa (outside  
of South Africa) with continued investment in a number  
of ongoing greenfield developments. In Europe and North 
America, markets remained subdued. In Australia, project 
activity stayed at low levels due to difficult conditions in 
coal markets in particular. Brownfield investment in South 
America continued to offer good opportunities. Outside 
of mining end markets, the division saw growth in water 
and oil and gas. This included continued growth in 
brownfield spending in the Canadian oil sands and the 
development of coal-seam gas projects in Australia.
Dean Jenkins 
Divisional Managing Director The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 32
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
Geographic input breakdown
North America 24%
South America 22%
Middle East/Africa 15%
Europe 12%
Asia-Paciﬁc 9%
Australasia 18%
Market input breakdown
Minerals 75%
Industrial 8%
Power Generation 5%
Other 2%
Oil & Gas 10%
Strategic progress
The division has continued to make strategic progress  
to ensure long term growth whilst at the same time 
demonstrating agility in responding to challenging  
market conditions. During the year, we reacted to 
reductions in mining company capital expenditure  
by increasing customer responsiveness, extending  
our product range into attractive adjacent markets  
and improving our operational efficiency.
We expanded our market-leading service centre network 
and opened a new manufacturing plant in Mexico to 
support the high growth Central American market. 
Globally, our service network proved a valuable platform 
for our enhanced and extended product range which 
supported a significant increase in aftermarket revenues 
and helped to offset the impact of reduced original 
equipment spending. As miners concentrated on 
brownfield investment to increase productivity at existing 
facilities, we were able to take advantage of our lowest 
total cost of ownership proposition. A Global Framework 
Agreement with Anglo American, one of the world’s largest 
mining companies, was signed which will roll out Weir 
products to their worldwide operations, helping to improve 
energy consumption and lower maintenance requirements. 
Over the course of the year we made significant progress 
through strategic acquisitions and alliances which 
provide access to differentiated technology and
extend our presence in attractive non-mining markets. 
The purchase of Aspir complements our existing product 
portfolio and allows us to extend our aftermarket offering. 
The division also expanded further in the comminution 
segment of the mill circuit through two agreements which 
increase our product offering. The agreement with KHD 
gives Weir direct control over the design, manufacture 
and distribution of HPGRs, with the first original 
equipment orders received in 2013. We also entered into 
a partnership with the Minyu Machinery Corporation, 
providing crushing technology from which we can 
Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown
Key priorities and progress in 2013
Global 
capability and 
value chain 
• Expansion of our best cost 
manufacturing base with the 
acquisition of two foundries in 
South Africa and Malaysia.
• Continued investment across  
our regions to strengthen our 
service and support capabilities. 
Eight service centres were  
added during 2013.
• The launch of a global systems 
integration programme to exploit 
synergies across the division and 
provide the management platform 
for long term sustainable growth.
Continue to 
drive market 
share of the  
full product 
portfolio and 
services
• Market entry into the attractive 
centrifuge aftermarket with the 
acquisition of Australian centrifuge 
engineered wear component 
manufacturer Aspir.
• Strengthening our aftermarket 
capability in the North American 
engineered wear lining market  
with the acquisition of R Wales.
• Increase market share using the 
full product portfolio and services.
Establishing 
capability 
within 
comminution 
• Secured a licensing agreement 
with KHD for their market-leading 
High Pressure Grinding Roll 
(HPGR) technology and achieving  
first original equipment orders.
• Established a joint venture with 
Taiwan-based Minyu Machinery 
Corporation for the development 
of crusher technology for mining. 
 
 
Build on the 
collaborative 
successes of 
the Oil & Gas 
forum to 
develop new 
products and 
services
• Secured our first significant  
orders for swellable packers  
for oil and gas downhole drilling 
applications developed using 
Minerals elastomer technology.  Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33
2013 £269m
2012 £253m
2011 £208m
2013 £1,304m
2012 £1,307m
2011 £1,169m
Revenue
£1,304m
0%
Operating profit
£269m
+6%
2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
develop product lines specifically for mining markets, 
using our materials technology. Combined, these 
products give us a strong platform to grow and  
increase our addressable market in comminution  
to circa £1bn.
We also concentrated on building capacity to meet 
growing aftermarket demand in mining markets and 
expanding the product portfolio into non-mining markets. 
The acquisition of additional foundry capacity in South 
Africa and Malaysia provides best cost manufacturing 
near strategically important markets to support growing 
aftermarket demand. Our presence in the Canadian oil 
sands market was also strengthened with the acquisition 
of the R Wales group of companies. Dewatering pump 
technology was used to secure orders in the coal-seam 
gas market in Australia. 
Our commitment to value chain excellence continued 
with significant operational efficiencies, cost reductions 
and procurement savings supporting margins and 
reductions in working capital. We worked closely with  
key suppliers sharing the benefits of our lean operating 
system to reduce customer lead times. 
Order input increased by 1% to £1,311m (2012: £1,296m) 
and was flat on a like for like basis. Original equipment 
orders were 6% lower year on year with a double-digit 
decline in original equipment slurry pump orders for 
mining end markets, partially offset by growth in orders 
for the broader product range and success in non-mining 
markets. Momentum increased towards the end of the 
year with original equipment input up by 19% in the fourth 
quarter, including for projects to be delivered in 2015 and 
2016. Despite project delays and changes to the scope of 
certain greenfield developments, only £3m of prior  
year orders were cancelled and the division recorded  
a positive book to bill in 2013.
Aftermarket orders grew by 6% (3% like for like) and 
represented 63% of total input (2012: 60%) supported  
by the benefits of a large and growing installed base, 
reflected in the 4% order growth for slurry pump spares. 
Aftermarket growth of 5% or more was achieved in three 
out of four quarters with Q2 impacted by destocking  
in South America.
Order input was supported by the initial success  
of our comminution strategy which included the  
first orders for HPGRs. In total, comminution orders 
(crushers, HPGRs and screens) almost doubled to  
more than £30m. Orders from a coal-seam gas project  
in Australia supported growth in dewatering pump  
orders approaching 50%. Alongside growth in waste 
water and general industrial markets, this supported  
a near 30% increase in non-mining orders in 2013.
Emerging markets accounted for 46% of input (2012: 52%), 
with orders reflecting lower activity in South America and 
Indonesia. Orders from mining end markets accounted 
for 75% of input (2012: 80%).
Revenue was flat year on year at £1,304m (2012: £1,307m) 
and 2% lower on a like for like basis with second half 
revenues 1% above the prior year record. Original 
equipment sales were 9% lower and accounted for  
37% (2012: 41%) of divisional revenues. Short-cycle 
production-driven aftermarket revenues increased by  
6% (3% like for like), with strong ore production growth 
and the benefits of an expanding installed base more 
than offsetting the impact of extended wear-life offered 
by our latest product enhancements. 
Double-digit growth in Africa was offset by revenue 
declines in South America and Asia Pacific. Despite 
subdued end market conditions, growth was also 
achieved in North American and European markets.
Operating profit increased 6% to £269m (2012: £253m) 
benefiting from a positive first contribution from 
aquisitions, a higher proportion of aftermarket revenues 
alongside cost and procurement efficiencies.
Operating margin increased to 20.6% (2012: 19.4%)  
and was ahead of expectations reflecting a growing 
aftermarket revenue mix, benefits from procurement 
initiatives, productivity gains and effective cost control 
measures. Combined, these more than offset inflation 
and the limited pricing pressure seen in the period. 
Margins were maintained at good levels in all regions.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 34
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
CREATING INNOVATIVE 
ENGINEERING 
SOLUTIONS
The Weir Minerals Screen Design Centre  
in Johannesburg, South Africa, is responsible 
for the development of the division’s vibrating 
screens global product portfolio. 
The team comprises design engineers  
and draughtsmen who use the latest 
engineering analysis equipment to  
design new screen products.
The design centre was established  
after the Weir Group purchased the  
Linatex rubber brand in late 2010. Since 
then, we have invested significantly in  
our team and provided our employees  
with cutting edge technology to develop 
innovative screening equipment, helping 
enhance our offering under the new  
brand identity of Enduron screens.
The design centre is also responsible for 
building and testing prototypes, making  
use of the dedicated vibrating screen and 
geared exciter testing facility situated in  
the manufacturing plant in Johannesburg. 
The engineers provide design and 
manufacturing support to the Group’s 
facilities around the world, expanding  
the division’s global capability and  
building on Weir’s reputation for  
creating innovative products.
Partners in production worldwide Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35
Investment
Capital expenditure was £53m (2012: £50m) as 
investment was made in foundry capacity and wear 
resistant lining production. Eight service centres  
were added and research and development spending 
remained in line with last year at £13m as the division 
continued to develop its materials technology positions 
and broaden its product portfolio. 
In Malaysia, land was secured to build a best cost 
manufacturing campus with plans to invest more  
than £70m over the next three years establishing  
a new foundry, machine shop and continuous rubber 
processing line (see case study on page 20).
Including acquisitions, the division added around  
400 employees during the year.
Outlook
Weir Minerals remains well positioned to sustain its 
growth strategy supported by a strong business model 
and the long term attractive market fundamentals in 
mining and minerals processing which are driven by 
emerging market urbanisation and signs of improving 
economic conditions in developed markets. Sustained 
ore output growth, underpinned by declining ore grades 
and metals prices above incentive levels, lends itself to 
ongoing demand as Weir Minerals leverages its strong 
aftermarket position.
The division entered 2014 with an order book at similar 
levels to the prior year, although total mining capital 
expenditure is expected to continue to decline at 
double-digit rates in 2014, reflecting miners’ investment 
plans. Maintenance and brownfield capital expenditure  
is expected to remain relatively stable while greenfield 
activity will continue to decline. 
The impact on original equipment revenues is  
anticipated to be partially offset by the combined  
growth of comminution and non-mining end market 
sales. Commissioning of ongoing greenfield 
developments is expected to support continued 
aftermarket growth such that full year divisional revenues 
are expected to be slightly ahead of 2013 on a constant 
currency basis. It is anticipated margins will decline 
slightly reflecting a greater proportion of lower margin 
products and further investment in new products  
and technology. 
Key priorities in 2014
Invest in comminution process knowledge  
and materials wear technology.
Identify new platforms for potential growth  
aligned to our core strategy and competencies.
Reduce lead times and working capital through 
global supply chain initiatives.
Continue development of Minerals and Oil & Gas 
product portfolios through collaboration and 
innovation.
Help make our customers’ existing operations 
more efficient by continuous improvement of  
our core products, wherever they need us. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 36
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
OPERA TIONAL REVIEW
WEIR OIL & GAS
In 2013 the division continued to make 
progress in pursuit of its key strategic 
objectives, despite further challenges  
in the pressure pumping market.  
By increasing operational efficiency, 
leveraging our service centre network  
and maximising the benefits from our 
complete product portfolio, we were  
able to more fully capture aftermarket 
opportunities. 
Steve Noon 
Divisional Managing Director
Market drivers
In North America tight oil production continued to grow 
strongly. The US government now estimates the US will 
shortly overtake Saudi Arabia as the world’s biggest oil 
producer. Throughout the year WTI oil prices remained 
above incentive levels but traded at a discount to Brent 
because of US infrastructure constraints and restrictions 
on exports. Gas prices stayed below incentive levels.  
In Canada, an extended spring break and flooding in 
Alberta adversely impacted the market. These factors 
contributed to a slower recovery in North American 
upstream markets than had been anticipated by the 
industry, with the number of wells drilled stable from  
the second quarter of 2013 onwards. Increased drilling 
efficiencies meant well count declined by 3% despite  
a 9% decline in average rig count, as pad drilling  
enabled each rig to drill more wells. Oil and liquids  
drilling increased to 79% of drilling and completion 
activity, emphasising the continued move away from  
gas, where rig count fell by 14%.
Wells drilled, the key driver of our business, supported 
demand for pressure pumping and pressure control 
products. In pressure pumping markets, frack fleet 
utilisation is estimated to have improved marginally to 
76% by the end of the year but remained below the level 
required to stimulate an increase in original equipment 
demand. There was a reduction in customer inventory 
levels, with demand for shorter cycle aftermarket 
products and services normalising. International pressure 
pumping markets continued to grow strongly, particularly 
in China, which saw a 73% increase in its frack fleet. 
Pressure control markets declined slightly reflecting the 
number of wells drilled and the switch from gas to oil rich 
basins which are typically lower pressure and require less 
complex solutions. 
In the Middle East, services markets continued to grow 
with average rig count increasing by 5%. Iraq offered 
significant opportunities as the country continued to 
rebuild its oil and gas infrastructure. In mid and 
downstream markets there were good opportunities  
in Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) and Floating Production, 
Storage and Offloading (FPSO) sectors, although the core  
refining market remained subdued. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37
Geographic input breakdown
North America 70%
Middle East/Africa 15%
Asia-Paciﬁc 4%
South America 2%
Australasia 1%
Europe 8%
Market input breakdown
Oil & Gas 99%
Industrial 1%
Strategic progress
In 2013, we responded to the slower than expected 
recovery in upstream markets by increasing our product 
range and leveraging our industry-leading service centre 
network to grow aftermarket revenues. That network  
was a real source of competitive advantage for Pressure 
Pumping allowing us to gain market share and leverage 
our complete product portfolio through the provision  
of integrated aftermarket products and services. We also 
made significant changes to ensure continued 
operational efficiency. Pressure Pumping manufacturing 
was consolidated in Fort Worth, Texas, allowing the 
closure of two small satellite manufacturing units. These 
initiatives partially offset the impact of pricing pressure, 
particularly in frack pumps and legacy fluid ends.
Internationally, Pressure Pumping increased market  
share in China as it benefitted from the extension of  
the locally manufactured product range and targeted 
sales initiatives; capturing both original equipment and 
aftermarket opportunities. 
In Pressure Control, we launched a zipper frack manifold 
product which is used in pad drilling and contributes  
to the material efficiency gains seen from this technology. 
Seaboard also launched a frack flowback offering which 
combines elements of both the Pressure Pumping  
and Pressure Control portfolio to safely and efficiently 
manage the initial flowback of water and solids  
from completed wells. Additional resources were  
also invested in Seaboard to increase service and  
operational capabilities.
Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown
Key priorities and progress in 2013
Develop 
aftermarket 
business model 
and bundling 
strategy in 
Pressure 
Pumping
• Dedicated aftermarket sales team 
established with positive impact 
across all aftermarket product 
streams. Aftermarket input up 
32% in Pressure Pumping,  
with fluid end valves and seats 
especially strong, reflecting  
the benefit of the Novatech 
acquisition in early 2012.
Continue 
momentum in 
new product 
development
• Duralast and stainless steel fluid 
ends released across the full frack 
pump range, assisting recapture 
of market share in this category.
• Gabbioneta completed 
development of a high capacity 
vertical pump for downstream 
applications which has the 
highest specific speed rating  
ever designed by the business.
• Seaboard developed a unique 
overshot system for subsea  
well kill applications.
Capitalise  
on growth 
opportunities 
in Saudi Arabia 
and Iraq
• Input in Saudi Arabia and Iraq 
was up more than 40% year on 
year (including joint ventures),  
as we took advantage of growing 
oil and gas production. 
 
 
 
Capture 
Seaboard 
domestic and 
international 
growth 
opportunities
• The business secured its first 
Australian revenues with further 
orders expected in 2014.
• The customer base was 
broadened and the business 
grew wellhead revenues in 
challenging market conditions.
Integrate  
and realise  
the benefits 
expected from 
the Mathena 
acquisition
• Mathena was successfully 
integrated and has broadened  
its reach and extended its share 
of rigs across North America to 
over 400, up 26% year on year,  
in what was a declining market.
Enhance 
Pressure 
Control 
offering in 
North America 
upstream 
markets
• We successfully launched our 
flowback and zipper rental 
service streams towards the end 
of the year, giving us the platform 
for organic growth in 2014.
Increase 
supply chain 
flexibility  
and reduce 
working capital
• In absolute terms the division 
reduced like for like working 
capital by £2m. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 38
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
Services continued to experience good growth in both 
Saudi Arabia and Iraq – where Weir has the first facility  
to be awarded internationally recognised API and ISO 
licenses, which led to a US$98m order from LUKOIL  
in January 2014, to support its operations in southern  
Iraq. Downstream operations also saw momentum  
build through the year as they expanded into mid and 
upstream markets through organic product development. 
Profitability improved as the business benefitted from 
value engineering initiatives and the commissioning of a 
best cost manufacturing facility in Poland.
Order input at £811m (2012: £688m) was 18% higher  
and 10% higher like for like. Aftermarket input was  
up 41% year on year (29% like for like) due to strong 
Pressure Pumping and Services growth and accounted 
for 72% (2012: 60%) of divisional orders. Original 
equipment input fell 18% (18% like for like) mainly due  
to the reduction in demand for new pressure pumping 
equipment, which was partially offset by good growth  
in Downstream orders.
Pressure Pumping input increased by 9% with 
improvement evident through the year such that second 
half orders were 34% higher than the equivalent 
prior-year period. This was driven by strong aftermarket 
growth as a result of the normalisation of inventory levels 
and the success of our product bundling strategy. SPM 
aftermarket orders exceeded 2011 levels and Novatech 
run rates approached levels last seen at the peak of the 
market. Original equipment orders were materially lower 
year on year reflecting overcapacity in the frack fleet  
and accounted for 17% of Pressure Pumping input. 
International orders grew strongly as interest in new  
shale opportunities continued to grow outside of North 
America and now represent almost 15% of Pressure 
Pumping input.
Pressure Control was impacted by the decline in well 
count and the bias towards tight oil basins. Input was 
supported by a good first contribution from Mathena. 
Despite sequential second half growth, full year Seaboard 
orders reflected the end market conditions and the delayed 
introduction of new product initiatives in the first half.
Input from Services and Downstream grew strongly in  
the period. In the Middle East, Services benefitted from 
regional expansion into Iraq and Oman while LNG and 
FPSO orders, alongside good spares trends, supported 
Downstream growth. 
Revenue decreased by 7% (13% like for like) to £796m 
(2012: £857m) reflecting a lower opening order book  
at the start of 2013 compared to 2012 and continuing 
subdued demand for Pressure Pumping original 
equipment. In total, original equipment revenues were down 
42% (42% like for like). Aftermarket revenues increased by 
22% (1 1% like for like). Revenues increased sequentially 
driven by incremental growth in Pressure Pumping and 
Pressure Control. Services and Downstream recorded 
strong growth in the period. Divisional second half revenues 
were 17% higher year on year (9% like for like).
Operating profit including joint ventures was 16% lower  
at £181m (2012: £214m) and 29% lower on a like for like 
basis, reflecting a smaller Pressure Pumping contribution. 
Total one-off costs of £6m (2012: £3m), were incurred, 
primarily due to the closure of two small pressure 
pumping manufacturing facilities. Pressure Control  
profit growth was supported by a first contribution  
from Mathena which was partially offset by additional 
investment in Seaboard. Strong profit progression was 
seen at Services and Downstream operations. Profits 
from joint ventures increased to £8m (2012: £6m) 
reflecting good growth in Saudi Arabia and the first 
contribution from a North American oil and gas 
equipment distribution partnership.
Operating margin declined 230bps to 22.7% (2012: 
25.0%) and was down 450bps on a like for like basis 
reflecting lower Pressure Pumping activity levels, higher 
one-off costs and pricing pressure on legacy fluid ends 
and original equipment frack pump orders. Like for like 
Pressure Control margins also declined as a result of a 
lower proportion of higher margin frack rental revenues 
and additional investment in extending sales and 
operational capabilities. Divisional margins improved in 
the second half due to higher activity levels and improved 
efficiencies as a result of the restructuring actions taken 
in the first half of 2013. 
Investment 
Capital expenditure of £38m (2012: £52m) included 
expanding the Pressure Pumping service network and 
extending Seaboard’s rental product portfolio. Total research 
and development expenditure of £5m was focussed on 
developing differentiated Pressure Pumping technology. 
Employee headcount increased reflecting the increased 
input and investment in extending our service network.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39
2013 £181m
2012 £214m
2011 £188m
2013 £796m
2012 £857m
2011 £759m
2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
Key priorities in 2014
 
Capitalise on growing international opportunities  
across each business.
 
Accelerate customer uptake of recent product  
and service launches.
 
Continue to grow share in the pressure  
pumping aftermarket.
Expand maintenance services capacity in Iraq,  
in support of the LUKOIL contract awarded in  
January 2014.
 
Deliver benefits from Group-wide upstream  
and downstream oil and gas forums.
Increase supply chain flexibility and improve 
working capital ratios through Value Chain 
Excellence initiatives.
Outlook
The medium term outlook for global pressure pumping 
and pressure control markets remains positive. In North 
America, shale gas production is predicted to grow 
strongly as it is increasingly used as a feedstock for 
power generation, manufacturing and transport. 
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) exports are expected to 
increase demand in the medium term with six terminals 
approved in North America and more applications 
pending. Tight oil production is anticipated to continue  
its strong growth as infrastructure constraints are 
addressed. Internationally, development of shale reserves 
is expected to continue to grow in China, Russia,  
Saudi Arabia and Argentina, all of which are estimated  
to have substantial technically recoverable reserves.
The division entered 2014 at a substantially higher run 
rate than the prior year and is expected to deliver strong 
full year constant currency revenue growth, supported by 
mid single-digit growth in upstream expenditure in North 
America and the Middle East, assuming stable oil and 
gas prices. Pressure Pumping will also benefit from the 
normalisation of aftermarket demand although original 
equipment revenues are expected to remain subdued.  
It is anticipated divisional margins will remain broadly  
in line with the second half of 2013.
INCREASING OUR  
GLOBAL CAPABILITY 
When the Weir Group acquired Seaboard 
in 2011, the provider of wellhead and frack 
stack solutions was focussed on growing 
in North American unconventional oil 
and gas markets. Weir identified the 
opportunity to enter the frack flowback 
market by combining the product 
offering of Seaboard and SPM. 
As a result, the Weir Group is now 
using its international experience and 
global capability to grow Seaboard’s 
product and service lines into new 
markets. Weir’s established service 
centres, machining capabilities and 
well established sales networks enable 
the company to expand quickly and 
efficiently into developing markets 
such as Australia and the Middle East.
With an increasing international 
interest in developing shale 
resources, demand for wellhead, 
frack stack and flowback solutions  
is increasing. Seaboard is well  
placed to meet this demand, given  
its experience in the US and its 
exposure through Weir to a platform 
which will allow it to offer its  
products and services to customers 
on a global scale.
Revenue
£796m
-7%
Operating profit
£181m
-16%
Partners in production worldwide The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 40
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
OPERA TIONAL REVIEW
WEIR POWER & 
INDUSTRIAL
In 2013, the division established a  
global valves platform and increased 
operational capabilities which position  
us well to take advantage of future 
growth opportunities. Over the course of 
the year some markets were particularly 
challenging but we responded by 
enhancing our global capability and 
further strengthening our customer 
relationships.
Market drivers
Emerging markets offered the best opportunities for growth over  
the course of 2013. Within Valves, demand from Korean Engineering 
Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) companies 
was strong and there were positive initial signals in the nuclear new 
build market – particularly in China and India. However, general 
industrial conditions in India deteriorated during 2013, with a direct 
impact on demand for valves. In the Middle East momentum 
continued in oil and gas markets, supporting control and safety 
valve opportunities. 
John Heasley  
Divisional Managing Director
Key priorities and progress in 2013
Embed global 
valve structure 
and drive global 
sales hub 
performance
• Global valves platform now  
well established and operating 
under a Valves leadership team 
comprising both product line  
and operational experts. 
• Double-digit emerging market 
sales growth.
Further leverage 
Valve aftermarket 
opportunities
• UK Valve aftermarket input up 
19% since 2012.
Develop 
operational 
capabilities to 
support higher 
activity levels
• Supply chain and operations 
capability upgraded in all  
Valve facilities.
• On time delivery performance 
increased by more than 10% 
in 2013.
• Best cost supply chain enhanced 
through acquisition of Cheong 
Foundry in Malaysia.
Internationalise 
hydro, wind and 
power service 
offerings
• Additional approved repair 
facilities established in Southeast 
Asia, further internationalising  
the power service offering.
• £20m Libyan power plant 
refurbishment contract awarded.
• Wind maintenance offering 
extended into South America.
Continue 
expansion in oil 
and gas markets
• Entry to the FPSO control valve 
market secured with a number  
of contract wins.
• Oil and gas sector revenues  
up 6%.
Continue  
new product 
development  
and product 
extension
• Significant success in control 
valve initiatives such as X-Stream 
and turbine bypass products.
• Transfer of range of valve 
technologies to Korea and China, 
extending the addressable 
market opportunity. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41
In developed markets, aftermarket demand in the UK  
and the US improved although the power market in the 
US was impacted by low natural gas prices. This led to 
challenging trading conditions in the hydro, coal and 
nuclear sectors but encouraged new build Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) activity. In Europe, 
conventional safety valve demand was subdued  
reflecting general economic activity levels.
Strategic progress
Valves aftermarket initiatives made progress as a 
successful rapid response business model, which was 
initially developed in Canada, was replicated in the UK. 
The global valves platform is now well established,  
with senior leadership appointed at each plant to drive 
improved operational performance. Fourth quarter 
revenue run rates were at record levels, reflecting 
progress on these operational initiatives. Entry to the 
Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) 
control valve market was secured with a number of 
contract wins. 
Product transfers to South Korea and China continued, 
broadening emerging market opportunities.
Additional repair facilities were established in Southeast 
Asia, further internationalising the power service offering. 
Action was taken to reduce costs in Hydro operations  
to reflect challenging end market conditions and the  
wind services offering extended into South America.  
At the end of the year, the Services business secured 
re-entry into Libya with a large power plant  
refurbishment contract.
Order input decreased by 6% to £340m (2012: £363m) 
due to material declines in Hydro orders partially offset  
by growing Services input, as a result of a £20m contract 
win in the fourth quarter. Original equipment orders 
declined 10%, primarily reflecting the reduction in Hydro 
input. Aftermarket input was 2% lower year on year with 
strong second half growth largely offsetting first half 
declines. Valve orders declined slightly, with underlying 
progress offset by the absence of large individual project 
wins. Full year divisional book to bill remained positive  
at 1.03 while power markets continue to represent 60%  
of orders (2012: 60%). Emerging markets accounted for 
33% of input (2012: 34%). 
Revenue increased by 1% to £330m (2012: £326m) and 
was slightly below expectations as a result of project 
delays in the fourth quarter. Double-digit growth in Valves 
was offset by declines in Hydro and Services. Within 
Valves strong growth was achieved in South Korea and 
total Valves fourth quarter revenues were 20% higher 
than the equivalent prior year period. Emerging market 
revenues increased by 16% year on year and accounted 
for 34% of divisional sales.
Operating profit was broadly unchanged at £31m  
(2012: £32m), with underlying Valves profit growth offset  
by substantial investment in extending capabilities.  
A declining contribution from hydro was offset by one-off 
proceeds from an insurance settlement of a prior claim 
and a gain on sale of property.
Operating margin was broadly stable at 9.5% (2012: 
9.8%), reflecting good growth from higher margin valve 
operations offset by additional investment to support 
future growth. 
Investment
Capital expenditure of £11m (2012: £19m) included 
investment in our UK aftermarket rapid response  
cell and additional capacity at our French safety valve 
facility. Investment in research and development 
increased by more than 50% to £3m (2012: £2m). The 
division added 30 employees as it invested in operational 
capabilities and extending sales and service channels  
in the Valves business. 
Outlook
Long term power and oil and gas fundamentals remain 
positive. Our addressable markets are expected to  
grow at circa 4-5%, driven by emerging market growth. 
Relatively low market shares in valve end markets provide 
scope to grow faster than these end markets as we 
continue to execute on our expansion plans into oil and 
gas markets, in particular. Nuclear remains an attractive 
prospect in the medium to long term, particularly in China, 
India and the Middle East. Aftermarket opportunities  
are being targeted to offset any short term risks from 
uncertainty on new build projects. International expansion 
will continue to deliver opportunities for our Renewable, 
Services and Industrial businesses.
In 2014, emerging markets are expected to continue to 
provide good growth opportunities in the power sector 
although it is anticipated North American hydro markets 
will remain subdued. Continued mid and downstream 
investment in oil and gas will also support growth.  
The division is expected to benefit from an improved 
operational performance in Valves, following measures 
taken in 2013. Strong constant currency revenue growth 
is expected, driven by Valves and Services, with low 
double-digit margins as the business continues to invest 
in new products and extending global capability.
2013 31
2012 32
2011 26
2013 330
2012 326
2011 302
2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
Revenue
£330m
+1%
Operating profit
£31m
-2% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 42
Strategic Report: 
Operational Review
Geographic input breakdown
Europe 40%
North America 27%
Middle East/Africa 5%
South America 2%
Asia-Paciﬁc 26%
Market input breakdown
Power 60%
Industrial 15%
Other 13%
Minerals 1%
Oil & Gas 11%
Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown
Key priorities in 2014
Geographical expansion:
 
• Continue strong growth in emerging market  
hubs and Korea; establish presence in Russia  
and Northern/Eastern Europe; expand presence  
in Asia and South America.
Best-cost sourcing:
 
• Continue product transfers to best-cost  
countries and expand low cost supply chain.
Product development:
• Enhance super/ultra-critical capabilities  
for Valves; extend range of markets/ 
applications for existing products.
Aftermarket enhancement:
 
• Maximise return from existing installed base, 
leveraging Services and Weir Group footprint; 
build on success of UK maintenance, repair  
and operations.
Market expansion:
 
• Expand in oil and gas, including LNG/cryogenics 
capabilities; increase in-house technical  
expertise.  
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
The Power & Industrial team in the UK has 
been working to build deeper customer 
relationships as part of the Weir Group’s 
commitment to being a partner of choice. 
As a company with a long history  
of supplying the UK’s nuclear industry,  
Weir has a large installed base of 
equipment in the country’s nuclear reactor 
fleet. This is a legacy which goes back  
to the first conventional nuclear power 
programme at Calderhall in the 1950s.
More than six decades later, we are still 
striving to help our customers improve 
their operational efficiency. In 2013,  
Weir’s Power & Industrial teams focussed 
on working more closely with customers 
to exceed their expectations. 
This involved Weir engineers analysing 
how products are used and identifying 
potential issues.
By doing this, engineers can recommend 
replacing or upgrading equipment as 
appropriate, addressing issues early to 
help customers improve performance. 
Rapid Response Cells set up within Weir 
allow teams to respond to customer 
needs, turning around orders quickly in 
the event that customers are experiencing 
unexpected outages requiring parts quickly.
Partners in production worldwide Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43
FINANCIAL REVIEW
RESILIENCE IN 
TOUGH MARKETS
The Group performed robustly over  
2013, despite challenging end market 
conditions, generating an operating  
profit (before exceptional items and 
intangibles amortisation) of £467m,  
a decrease of only 4% on the  
previous year.
This result demonstrates the strength of our operating 
model and the benefits of the diverse end markets and 
geographies in which we operate. 
In this Financial Review, and where appropriate, the 2012 
comparators have been restated to reflect the adoption  
of IAS19 (Revised) in relation to the accounting for the 
Group’s defined benefit pension plans.
Order input at £2,462m increased 3% on a constant 
currency basis and was 2% higher on a like for like basis 
(excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals). 
Original equipment orders were down 13% (down 10% 
like for like) as a result of reductions in greenfield mining 
orders, continued reduced demand for new pressure 
pumping equipment and power project delays. 
Aftermarket orders were up 16% (up 10% like for like)  
with a double-digit increase in Oil & Gas and good  
growth from Minerals. Aftermarket orders represented 
64% of overall input (2012: 57%). Minerals order input 
was £1,311m, broadly flat on 2012, both in constant 
currency and like for like. Input in Oil & Gas of £811m  
was 18% up on 2012 (up 10% like for like) following  
strong growth in Pressure Pumping aftermarket orders 
combined with the first year impact of the Mathena 
acquisition. Finally, input in Power & Industrial was 
negatively impacted by a shortfall in Hydro, reporting  
an overall 6% decrease to £340m (down 6% like for like). 
Revenue decreased by 4% to £2,430m on a reported 
and constant currency basis, down 5% like for like. 
Aftermarket accounted for 63% of revenues, an eight 
percentage point increase over the prior year. Emerging 
markets revenues decreased by 7% and represented 
36% (2012: 37%) of total revenues. Minerals revenues 
were flat at £1,304m (2012: £1,307m) on a constant 
currency basis and down 2% like for like. Oil & Gas 
revenues, including the contribution from Mathena, 
decreased by 7% to £796m and were down 13% like for 
like. Power & Industrial revenues grew from £326m in 
2012 to £330m in 2013, an increase of 1%. The 2013 
acquisitions of Mathena and R Wales contributed £70m in 
revenue. There were no revenues from other Group 
companies following the disposal of LGE Process at the 
end of 2012 (2012: £37.7m). 
Jon Stanton  
Finance Director The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 44
Strategic Report: 
Financial Review
Operating profit from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation decreased 
by 4% to £467m (2012 restated: £485m). Although year  
on year there was a minimal currency translation impact, 
movements in the average exchange rates from the first 
to second half had an adverse effect on operating profit 
of £11m in H2, relative to H1 average rates. The main 
driver of this was the US dollar which moved from an 
average of $1.54:£1 in H1 to $1.58:£1 in H2, ending  
the year at $1.64:£1. Subdued demand for Pressure 
Pumping original equipment was only partly offset by  
a first contribution from acquisitions and good growth  
in aftermarket revenue. One-off costs of £8.0m were 
incurred in the period (2012: £9.3m) of which £2.7m (2012: 
£4.0m) related to acquisition transaction and integration 
costs. Acquisitions contributed profit of £33.7m. There 
were no profits from other Group companies (2012: 
£2.5m). Unallocated costs were £14.0m (2012: £15.4m), 
reflecting targeted cost management initiatives and 
reduced discretionary spend.
Operating margin from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was 
19.2%, an increase of 10 basis points on the prior period 
(2012: 19.1%; 19.2% on a constant currency basis).  
On a like for like basis, the operating margin was 18.5% 
(2012: 19.5%). Sequential margin improvement was seen 
in the second half in each division. With regard to 
Minerals the operating margin was 20.6% (2012: 19.4% 
constant currency) for the full year, reflecting the 
strengthening aftermarket revenue mix alongside benefits 
from procurement initiatives, productivity gains and 
effective cost control. The Oil & Gas full year operating 
margin was 22.7% (2012: 25.0% constant currency) 
reflecting lower Pressure Pumping activity and higher 
one-off costs, only partially offset by the positive impact 
of acquisitions and a good performance in Downstream 
and Service businesses. As expected, H2 margins  
at 23.5% were higher than the first half of 21.8%.  
The operating margin in Power & Industrial was 9.5% 
(2012: 9.8% constant currency) with the impact of 
improved operational performance and higher activity 
levels leading to second half margins 380 basis points 
higher than the H1. 
Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation  
and Amortisation (EBITDA)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment in the 
period was £59.1m (2012: £49.4m) resulting in EBITDA  
of £525.6m (2012 restated: £534.5m).
Exceptional items and intangibles amortisation
An exceptional gain of £70.5m (2012: £20.2m) combined 
with an intangibles amortisation charge of £46.7m (2012: 
£36.7m) resulted in total Group operating profit for the 
year of £490.3m (2012 restated: £468.6m). 
The increase in amortisation year on year is a direct  
result of the 2013 acquisitions. The exceptional gain in  
the current year relates to two items: (i) the release of the 
contingent consideration liability for Weir Mathena of 
£67.8m; and (ii) the curtailment gain of £2.7m recorded 
following the decision to close one of our main pension 
plans to future accrual with effect from 30 June 2015.  
The Mathena contingent consideration liability has been 
reduced to nil following the continuation of the depressed 
natural gas price which led to certain customers reducing 
their gas drilling activity in the second half of the year, 
resulting in the short term forecasts for the business  
no longer supporting payment of the contingent 
consideration. The exceptional credit in the prior year 
comprises the net of three items, the largest of which  
was the gain on sale of LGE Process of £30.5m which 
was completed on 28 December 2012. Offsetting this are: 
(i) a charge of £4.5m representing the uplift of inventory to 
net realisable value on acquisition being charged against 
profits as the inventory is sold; and (ii) an uplift of £5.8m 
to the net present value of contingent consideration 
payable in respect of the acquisition of Weir International. 
Net finance costs
Total net finance costs, including exceptional items,  
were £59.1m (2012 restated: £47.9m). There are four 
components of this net charge, the most significant being 
the interest cost of £47.9m (2012: £46.5m) on the Group’s 
borrowings (including amounts in relation to derivative 
financial instruments). The other elements are finance 
income of £3.0m (2012: £5.2m), a charge of £3.5m (2012 
restated: £4.0m) in relation to the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans and an exceptional cost of £10.7m (2012: 
£2.6m) being the unwind of the discount on the 
contingent consideration liability.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45
£300m
£400m
£500m
396
2011
440
2012
418
2013
19%
20%
18%
18.0
2011
19.1
2012
19.2
2013
1. Continuing operations excluding exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
2. 2012 restated to reflect the impact of IAS 19 on pension costs
Operating margins
1
 (%)
19.2% 
+10bps
Profit before tax
2
 (£m)
£418m 
-5%
The unwind of the discount on the contingent 
consideration liability is higher than the prior year due  
to an amount being recorded in relation to Mathena,  
prior to this liability being released in the second half.  
The total contingent consideration liability recorded  
on the balance sheet in respect of all acquisitions is 
£27.7m (2012: £24.5m).
Net finance costs (excluding retirement benefit related 
amounts and exceptional items) were covered 10.4 times 
by operating profit from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation (2012:  
11.7 times).
Profit before tax from continuing operations but before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation decreased 
by 5% to £418.1m (2012 restated: £439.8m). Reported 
profit before tax from continuing operations increased by 
2% to £431.2m (2012 restated: £420.7m) after intangibles 
amortisation of £46.7m (2012: £36.7m) and a net 
exceptional credit of £59.8m (2012: £17.6m), primarily  
in relation to the release of the Mathena contingent 
consideration liability.
The tax charge for the year of £107.5m (2012 restated: 
£123.3m) on profit before tax from continuing operations 
before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation  
of £418.1m (2012 restated: £439.8m) represents an 
underlying effective tax rate of 25.7% (2012: 28.0%), 
primarily reflecting a lower proportion of US profits. The 
Group’s policy with regard to tax matters is discussed 
later in this report.
Discontinued operations
In 2012, the Group reported income from discontinued 
operations of £3.3m representing the release of unutilised 
provisions in relation to previous disposals on expiration 
of the tax warranty periods. 
Earnings per share
Earnings per share from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation decreased 
by 2% to 145.4p (2012 restated: 149.0p). Reported 
earnings per share including exceptional items, 
intangibles amortisation and profit from discontinued 
operations was 157.2p (2012 restated: 147.5p).  
The weighted average number of shares in issue 
increased to 213.0m (2012: 212.2m).
Cash flows
Cash generated from operations before working capital 
movements was in line with the prior year at £514.8m 
(2012: £515.5m). Working capital cash outflows of £40.9m 
(2012: £116.9m) showed a significant improvement on the 
prior period with a second half working capital cash 
inflow of £21.9m. This second half performance was the 
result of improved supply chain performance and strong 
cash collection from receivables. Cash generated from 
operations increased by 19% from £398.6m in 2012 to 
£473.9m in 2013 representing an EBITDA to cash 
conversion ratio of 90% (2012: 75%).
Net capital expenditure decreased from £116.3m in 2012  
to £97.3m in 2013 with investment to add capacity in 
Minerals and the addition of rental and service capacity  
in Oil & Gas. The settlement of financing derivatives 
resulted in a net cash outflow of £5.0m (2012: £11.0m). 
Additional pension contributions of £12.1m (2012: £7.5m) 
were paid in the year in respect of agreed special 
contributions to the UK schemes. This will fall to £9.6m  
in 2014. 
Free cash flow from continuing operations was £168.4m 
(2012: £62.3m). Outflows in respect of the acquisition of 
subsidiaries of £202.5m and investments in joint ventures 
of £14.0m resulted in a closing net debt of £747.0m (2012: 
£688.9m, £691.5m constant currency). On a reported 
basis, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 1.4 times.
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
The Group’s ROCE of 19.3% for 2013 (on a like for like 
basis, excluding Mathena and R Wales) was down on  
the prior year (2012: 22.2%) primarily reflecting lower  
Oil & Gas profits and additional investment to support 
future growth.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an 11% increase in the  
full year dividend, the 30th consecutive year of dividend 
growth, with a final dividend of 33.2p (2012: 30.0p) 
making a total of 42.0p for the year (2012: 38.0p). 
Dividend cover (being the ratio of earnings per share  
from continuing operations before exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation to dividend per share) is 3.5 
times (2012 restated: 3.9 times). If approved at the Annual 
General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 30 May 
2014 to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 46
Strategic Report: 
Financial Review
Acquisitions and disposals
On 31 December 2012, the Group completed the 
acquisition of 100% of the voting shares of Mathena, Inc 
(Weir Mathena) for an upfront cash consideration of 
US$247m (£153m). Details of the contingent consideration 
and related accounting have been discussed earlier in this 
Financial Review and are also presented in note 13. 
During the year the Group also acquired 100% of the 
voting shares of the R Wales group of companies (Weir 
Wales), 100% of the voting shares of Aspir Pty Limited in 
Australia, the business and assets of the Cheong foundry 
in Malaysia, and the assets of the Xmeco heavy bay 
foundry in South Africa. The combined consideration for 
these acquisitions was £55.7m, with an expected 
contingent consideration of £1.6m. 
Tax policy
The Group’s strategic tax objectives are to:
• comply with all applicable tax laws and regulations, 
including the timely submission of all tax returns  
and tax payments; and
• develop and maintain strong working relationships 
with local tax authorities and undertake all dealings 
with them in a professional and timely manner.
The Group has strong controls and clear policies and 
procedures covering tax, which must be followed by all 
finance personnel. We take a conservative approach to all 
tax planning with the overarching aim of paying the right 
amount of tax at the right time in each tax jurisdiction in 
which we operate. As a large multi-national, we conduct 
our business affairs in a way which is efficient from a tax 
perspective, for example by looking to take into account 
available global tax incentives and allowances, but we do 
not undertake tax planning for its own sake.
In terms of cash tax, the Group paid income tax of 
£71.9m in 2013 across all of its jurisdictions compared to 
£104.9m in 2012. This decrease is driven by the reduced 
North American profits of the Group, with the reducing 
rate of corporation tax in the UK also a factor. Net cash 
tax paid in the UK in 2013 across corporation tax, VAT 
and payroll taxes was approximately £45m (2012: £43m).
Treasury management
The Group is financed through a combination of bank 
debt, fixed rate private placement notes and equity. The 
capital structure is managed centrally with the objectives 
of optimising capital efficiency, diversifying the investor 
base, achieving an orderly maturity of funding yet 
maintaining a good degree of financial headroom.
The principal financial risks faced by the Group are those 
relating to liquidity, foreign currency and credit risk. The 
Group’s treasury policies and procedures, which are 
reviewed and updated on a regular basis, seek to reduce 
these financial risks. Within this framework, the Group 
uses financial assets and liabilities including derivatives  
to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Funding and liquidity
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between 
continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank 
overdrafts, bank loans and long term fixed rate notes.
In July 2013, the Group repaid the US$300m amortising 
term loan and refinanced the US$800m multi-currency 
revolving credit facility. These facilities have been replaced 
with a new five year US$800m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility, which matures in 2018. At 3 January 2014, 
£43m was drawn under the revolving credit facility leaving 
an undrawn facility of £444m.
All covenants were met at 3 January 2014 with significant 
headroom under each financial ratio.
The Group held net cash balances of £68.6m at the end 
of 2013 (2012: £384.2m) representing operating balances 
held by the Group’s subsidiaries. Of this total, £1.3m was 
held in the UK (2012: £313.5m); the substantially higher 
figure held at the end of 2012 being in preparation for the 
completion of the acquisition of Mathena, Inc. 
The Group has additional committed and uncommitted 
bonding facilities under which guarantees are issued  
in order to support commercial activities.
Credit management
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its  
trade receivables with risk spread over a large number  
of countries and customers. There is no significant 
concentration of credit risk. Credit worthiness checks  
are undertaken before entering into contracts with  
new customers and credit limits are set as appropriate. 
We also use trade finance instruments such as letters  
of credit and insurance to mitigate any identified risk.  
The Group’s exposure to the credit risk of financial 
institutions is limited by the adherence to counterparty 
limits and by only trading with counterparties that have  
a strong credit standing based on ratings provided  
by the major agencies.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED 1. Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Mathena and Wales EBIT and exceptional items) divided by average net assets excluding net debt,  
pension deficit (net of deferred tax asset) and Mathena and Wales net assets. 2011: As 2012/13 but also excluding Seaboard.
Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47
20%
25%
30%
29.2
2011
22.2
2012
19.3
2013
£50m
£100m
£150m
2011 2012 2013
£200m
62
168
29
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s debt is in a combination of fixed and variable 
rates of interest. It is our policy to maintain a proportion of 
debt at fixed rates of interest subject to the future outlook 
for the level of interest rates. As at the end of 2013, the 
proportion of the Group’s debt at fixed rates was 92% 
compared to 71% as at the end of 2012 due to the 
repayment of the amortising term loan in the period.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates 
for transactions undertaken in non-functional currencies 
of the operating companies concerned and the translation 
of foreign currency denominated net assets and profit 
and loss items.
All material transactional currency exposures are hedged, 
usually by means of forward contracts thereby ensuring 
certainty over revenue and costs. Subject to local 
exchange controls, foreign exchange transactions are 
executed by the central treasury function. No speculative 
transactions are undertaken. Although hedging is carried 
out for all material economic exposures, only three 
subsidiaries applied cash flow hedge accounting under 
IAS39 during the period.
The Group manages a proportion of the potential 
currency translation exposures from US dollar 
denominated net investments through a combination  
of US dollar borrowing, forward foreign currency 
contracts and cross currency swaps. 
The strengthening of Sterling relative to 2012 against 
most main currencies, offset by a slight weakening 
against the Euro, resulted in a net loss on translation of 
net assets of £94.8m, including the effect of the balance 
sheet hedging programme. The fair value of derivatives 
designated as net investment hedges at 3 January 2014 
was a net nil position (2012: liability of £0.8m).
The Group does not hedge foreign currency translation 
exposures related to profit and loss items. Approximately 
55% of the Group’s operating profit is US$ denominated. 
A one cent move in the average US$:£ exchange rate  
has an impact of circa £2m on operating profit over the 
full year.
Further information on financial risk management 
objectives and policies can be found in note 30 to the 
Group financial statements.
Retirement benefits
The Group has five defined benefit pension plans, the 
largest of these being the two UK plans. The Group has 
sought to proactively manage its exposure to its pension 
plans and more than half of the liabilities of the main UK 
scheme are hedged using insurance policies, providing 
significant protection against changes in market 
conditions. During the current period, agreement was 
reached with the Trustees of the Main UK Plan to close 
the plan to future accrual of benefits with effect from  
30 June 2015 and accordingly a curtailment gain of  
£2.7m has been recorded as an exceptional item in the 
Income Statement. With regard to the key assumptions 
underpinning the IAS19 (Revised) valuation, the discount 
rate applied to the pension liabilities has increased  
from 4.3% to 4.4% with RPI inflation increasing from 
2.9% to 3.4% since 2012. The net effect of these  
changes partially offsets the returns on net assets and 
contributions in excess of benefit accrual, with an overall 
reduction in the net deficit in the Group’s retirement 
benefit obligations from £90.4m to £70.4m over the year.
Net assets
Net assets at the end of 2013 were £1,486.7m, an 
increase of £176.4m (2012: £1,310.3m). This increase is 
driven by the total net comprehensive income for the year 
of £247.3m less dividends paid of £82.6m.
Litigation
The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time  
to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which 
arise in the normal course of business. To the extent not 
already provided for, the Directors do not anticipate that 
the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either 
individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s financial position.
There are 1,129 asbestos related claims outstanding in 
the US (2012: 917) against Group companies. There are 
26 such claims in the UK (2012: 25). All actions are 
robustly defended.
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion & Order was filed with 
the United States District Court, Southern District of New 
York dismissing the claim against the Company (being 
one of many companies targeted) relating to a civil action 
for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food programme 
which was raised in the US. Subsequently the Iraqi 
Government filed a notice of appeal. A hearing of this 
appeal took place in the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals on 
18 February 2014. The decision of the Court of Appeals is 
still awaited at the time of publication. It is the Company’s 
intention to continue to defend this action vigorously.
Free Cash Flow
£168m
+171%
Return on Capital Employed
1
19.3%
-290bps The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 48
Strategic Report: 
Financial Review
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Profit before tax from continuing 
operations but before exceptional  
items and intangibles amortisation 
decreased by 5% to £418.1m  
(2012: £439.8m). 
Critical accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS and the material accounting 
policies are set out on pages 125 to 131 of this report. 
With the exception of the changes required under  
IAS19 (Revised) and disclosed in note 2 of the Financial 
Statements, there have been no significant changes  
to the accounting policies adopted in 2013.
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management has applied certain judgements, 
assumptions and estimates. These estimates and 
assumptions are based on historical experience, 
information available at the time and other factors 
considered relevant. Those with the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements are set out below. Further judgements, 
assumptions and estimates are set out on page 126.
Intangible assets
On the acquisition of a business it is necessary to 
attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, 
provided they meet the recognition criteria. The fair 
values of these intangible assets are dependent on 
estimates of attributable future revenues, margins  
and cash flows, as well as appropriate discount rates.  
In addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired 
intangible assets requires the application of judgement 
based on available information and management 
expectations at the time of recognition.
Impairment
IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing 
on any assets that show indications of impairment as  
well as annually for goodwill and other intangible assets 
with indefinite lives and so not subject to amortisation. 
This testing includes exercising management judgement 
about future cash flows and other events which are,  
by their nature, uncertain. In consideration of our recent 
acquisitions and the related changes to how the 
businesses are managed and reported, we have updated 
the definitions of our Cash Generating Units (CGUs) for 
the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill and other 
intangible assets. Full details are set out in note 14.
Retirement benefits
The assumptions underlying the valuation of retirement 
benefits assets and liabilities are important and based  
on actuarial advice. Changes in these assumptions  
could have a material impact on the measurement of the 
Group’s retirement benefit obligations. Sensitivities to 
changes in key assumptions are provided in note 24.
Taxation
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation  
of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing  
of future taxable income. Given the wide range of 
international business relationships and the long term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual 
arrangements, differences arising between the actual 
results and the assumptions made or future changes  
to such assumptions could result in future adjustments  
to tax income and expense already recorded. Provisions 
are established based on reasonable estimates for 
possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities  
of the respective countries in which the Group operates. 
Management judgement is used to determine the amount 
of such provisions taking into account that differences  
of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues 
depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective 
Group company’s domicile.
Jon Stanton
Finance Director
26 February 2014 Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49
Calls and face-to-face meetings
AGM
Reports and announcements
Website
Roadshows and Capital Markets Day
Presentations at conferences
Consultation responses
Face-to-face meetings
Visits to sites
Briefing papers
Industry events
Face-to-face meetings
Weir customer experience programme
Global supplier scorecard for strategic suppliers
Code of Conduct
ISO 14001 certification
Trade shows and industry events
Code of Conduct
Intranet and internal communications
Town Hall meetings
Training courses and development plans
Net Promoter
®
 score surveys
Fundraising events
Partnerships with educational institutes
Trainee and mentorship programmes
Volunteering
and customers
Suppliers
Investors
Communities
Employees
Engaging with 
stakeholders
and regulators
Government
The Weir Group is aware that we have to balance our growing and energy intensive 
business with the potential impacts that we may have on the environment and the 
communities in which we work. In order to deliver long term sustainable success,  
we aim to operate efficiently, minimise our environmental impact wherever possible, 
work in an ethically and socially considerate manner and build confidence and trust 
with our stakeholders.
Sustainability underpins the Group’s strategic priorities outlined on pages 8 and 9 and is inherent in the Company’s purpose and values.  
The Sustainability Review reports on each of our six key sustainability priorities, outlining their importance to our business, our performance  
in these areas over the past year, and the policies and practices applied to help monitor and manage this performance. 
The Weir Group is pleased to announce that it was admitted to the FTSE4Good index in September 2013. The index provides an objective 
performance measure for companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
SUST AINABILITY REVIEW
A KEY PART OF 
OUR STRA TEGY
The Group has six  
sustainability priorities:
Engagement with 
stakeholders during 2013
Environment
Health and safety
Products and 
technology
Employees
Communities
Ethics
  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 50
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 50
Gavin Nicol  
Director of Operations  
Support and Development
The Weir Group’s environmental 
strategy is to reduce potentially 
adverse impacts of its operations 
and to strive to innovate and 
enhance the positive benefit of  
our products and services. 
In addition to the five already owned, the Weir Group 
acquired two further foundries during the year. Due  
to their innate energy-intensive nature, this will have  
a significant impact on our total carbon emissions.  
We are a growing business and the markets that we  
work in mean the majority of our businesses are energy 
intensive. However, we also have operations in the hydro, 
wind and nuclear energy industries which are contributing  
to the production of clean, low carbon energy. 
As our business expands we take sustainability into 
account in our organisational decisions and work to 
minimise potentially adverse impacts on the environment. 
For instance, where we acquire or open new sites,  
we assess the means by which potential environmental 
impacts can be minimised and look to adopt new 
technologies to help achieve this where possible.
Environmental risk
Managing environmental risks is key to Weir operations.  
The Weir EHS Management System details the top  
11 priorities for assessing and measuring risk and 
environmental impacts. These include the use of 
compliance registers to ensure permit and authorisation 
requirements are met, environmental risk to soil and 
groundwater is mitigated through a set of storage, 
containment and management criteria, and environmental 
noise is risk assessed for all operations. The Weir 
Standards detail the minimum requirements for controlling 
these risks to air, land and water. More details on the Weir 
EHS Management System and accompanying Standards 
are provided in the Health & Safety section below. We 
operate under an awareness not just of the potential risks 
our business can have on the environment but equally  
the risk to our business from environmental or climatic 
events. There have been three reported incidents of the 
environment impacting our businesses during 2013.  
Two were incidences of flooding and the other was a 
tornado in El Reno, Oklahoma, which caused roof damage. 
More details on risk can be found on pages 24 to 30.
ISO 14001
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification 
which sets out a framework for an effective environmental 
management system. Certification to ISO 14001 helps to 
demonstrate our ongoing environmental performance  
in terms of legal and environmental policy requirements. 
Acquisitions, as part of the integration process, are 
expected to implement an ISO 14001 programme and 
achieve subsequent accreditation. All our continuing 
operations are ISO 14001 accredited, or are planned  
to be by the end of 2014. 
Environmental incidents
No significant environmental incidents were reported  
at sites under the operational control of the Group during 
the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014. There was a minor 
incident at a third party site on 20 May 2013 where a 
blow-out occurred at Marathon Oil’s McCoy gas well in 
Live Oak County, Texas, while Seaboard employees were 
operating Seaboard equipment on the site. No injuries or 
physical damage to property or equipment was sustained. 
However, a very limited amount of surface environmental 
contamination occurred in the immediate area of the well 
due to a light spray of associated oil carried in the gas 
vapour. This contamination was very quickly cleaned  
up and there was only a short term interruption to the 
operation of the well. Within the Oil & Gas division, all field 
services safety protocols were reviewed to consider 
whether they could be further improved.
Greenhouse gas emissions
A review of our approach and systems for measuring our 
global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions was undertaken 
in 2013 to consider evolving best practice and to ensure 
compliance with the new carbon reporting requirements 
under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
As a result we have procured a new software solution  
to enable more complete data collation and more 
accurate emissions calculation. A revised GHG Inventory 
Management Plan and updated Standard Operating 
Procedures have been developed and rolled-out to  
all relevant businesses. Implementation of the system 
including user training and data entry is ongoing and  
will be completed during 2014.
Environment
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51
Periodic review of our data management system, processes 
and procedures is planned in order to continue to maintain 
and improve the relevance, accuracy and scope of our 
reporting over time.
Our calculation methodology is aligned with the principles 
of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard developed by the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development and the World 
Resources Institute.
The Group has chosen to follow the ‘operational control’ 
approach, whereby it will account for 100% of the carbon 
emissions from operations over which it has control. This 
is consistent with our approach to financial accounting 
and reporting. On this basis, all subsidiary companies  
are included in reported annual carbon emissions, whilst 
our joint ventures which are not under our operational 
control are not. However, in reviewing our reporting we 
have excluded some sites on the basis of materiality or 
because of the type of site.
The UK Government GHG Conversion Factors 2013 have 
been used to calculate UK emissions. Factors from other 
credible sources have been used for overseas operations, 
specifically those published by the US Environmental 
Protection Agency the International Energy Agency  
and the International Panel on Climate Change.
As far as can be determined, all material Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions sources have been included. Scope 1 
sources are those emissions for which the Group is directly 
responsible, i.e. combustion of fuel for the operation of our 
facilities. Scope 2 sources comprise those emissions for 
which the Group is indirectly responsible, i.e. from the 
electricity, heat, steam and cooling we purchase to use  
in our operations or equipment.
We do not currently measure or report Scope 3 emissions, 
which relate to sources that are not within our direct 
control, third party warehouses and transport in vehicles 
not owned by the Group.
As this is the first reporting year for which the new data 
management system and procedures have been used,  
no prior year figures have been provided as direct 
comparison may not be appropriate. In future reporting 
years, emissions figures for 2013 will be presented as the 
baseline against which performance can be measured.
The Group’s total annual GHG emissions in tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
e) for the 53 weeks  
ended 3 January 2014 are as follows:
Total annual 
GHG 
emissions
2013
 tCO
2 e
Emissions 
intensity
2013
tCO
2 e per £m 
revenue
Scope 1: On-site  
combustion of fuel 82,100 33.8
Scope 2: Purchased electricity, 
heat, steam & cooling for own use 129,900 53.5
Total 212,000 87.3
The Group now operates seven foundries, which are  
the most energy intensive areas of the business. GHG 
emissions data for the foundries acquired during 2013 
have been reported from their date of acquisition. We 
have presented foundry GHG emissions separately  
to enable closer performance review. 
Total annual 
GHG 
emissions: 
foundries
2013
 tCO
2 e
Proportion 
of 2013 total 
annual GHG 
emissions
%
Foundry 
emissions 
intensity
tCO
2 e per 
tonnage of 
metal poured
Scope 1: On-site 
combustion of fuel 21,800 10% 0.6
Scope 2: Purchased 
electricity, heat, 
steam & cooling  
for own use 68,300 32% 1.9
Total 90,100 42% 2.5
As with total global GHG emissions, it is intended that 
2013 emissions figures for the foundries will be provided 
in future years as a performance baseline.
Energy reduction measures and targets
One of our sustainability improvement priorities is to 
reduce our energy use in relative terms and associated 
GHG emissions. Historically targets have been set at 
operating company level. This is planned to be reviewed 
during 2014 to determine if this continues to be the most 
appropriate approach for our business.
Details of some of the sustainability improvement 
measures undertaken and targets set during 2013 are:
• Weir Minerals Africa replaced geysers with heat 
pumps resulting in a 50% reduction in electricity 
consumption through these units.
• Weir Minerals Chile undertook five energy reduction 
projects, including the replacement of lighting systems 
and engines and making part of the roof transparent 
to allow natural light in, with an estimated annual 
reduction of almost one million kWh.
• Weir Gabbioneta in Italy has implemented several 
projects to reduce energy use and GHG emissions, 
including installing a new control panel in the test 
room to switch off the transformer when not in use.
• WESCO Abu Dhabi carried out an inspection  
survey using infrared equipment to identify the  
motors that consume the most power in order  
to target future actions.
• Weir American Hydro installed new energy efficient 
weld machines, fitted energy efficient office lighting 
that consume approximately 40% less electricity, and 
introduced a soft-start machine shutdown programme 
which reduces peak time energy use. Such projects 
helped them achieve a 9% reduction compared to 
2012 use, driven by their aim to reduce total energy 
consumption during 2013 by 10% compared to the 
previous year.
• Weir BDK in India undertook an energy audit and 
through subsequent interventions reduced their total 
annual electricity consumption by 10.5% compared to 
2012 usage. They also further reduced their total GHG 
emissions by replacing their diesel boiler burner fuel 
with biodiesel.  
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 52
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
Timber 
recycled
Metal 
recycled 
to third party
Scrap metal 
purchased 
from customers
Metal 
reused 
internally
5
12.5
13.2
11.9
1.4
1.0
0.6
1.7
3.8 3.6
2.4 2.5 2.6
10
15
2011 2012 2013
The Group continues to install and make use of telepresence 
video-conferencing facilities at its major sites worldwide. 
There are now 14 Weir sites in seven different countries 
with dedicated telepresence conference rooms. These 
allow meetings to be held throughout the Group as 
though attendees were in the same location. The facilities 
were used for both Board and Group Executive meetings 
as well as budget review meetings during the year and 
their use has resulted in a notable reduction in air travel 
and related GHG emissions.
Recycling
As part of our sustainability strategy, our businesses  
also focus on improving resource efficiency; for instance, 
increasing the proportion of waste materials that are 
recycled and reducing the total quantity of waste going  
to landfill.
Nearly 12,000 tonnes of metal was reused internally in  
our foundry operations in 2013. 34% of all metal poured 
in the foundries in 2013 was reused internally compared 
to 42% in 2012. The decrease in the amount of metal 
being reused compared to the prior year is a reflection  
of the increased efficiency in our pouring and casting 
processes, which resulted in less waste metal being 
produced. Recycling data was not available for our new 
foundry in Malaysia and is only reported from the date  
of acquisition for our new foundry in South Africa.
Additional external reporting
The Group continues to participate in Phase 1 of the  
UK’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency 
Scheme (the ‘CRC Scheme’). The CRC Scheme aims to 
encourage large public and private sector organisations 
to reduce GHG emissions through energy efficiency 
interventions. Phase 1 participation is mandatory for 
organisations meeting specific legal and technical 
criteria. Based on a qualification assessment indicating 
these criteria were met, the Group has been a scheme 
participant since Phase 1 started in 2010. 
Weir prides itself on promoting the  
highest standards of environmental  
care in each aspect of its operation.  
In 2013, this pride was recognised 
when Weir Oil & Gas won a highly 
sought-after environmental award 
for the design of its new divisional 
headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas.
The LEED Gold Certification, issued 
by the US Green Building Council, 
recognises the efforts made in the 
design, construction and operation  
of the new headquarters to ensure  
it is as environmentally friendly as 
possible. The building is the first in the 
City of White Settlement, near Fort 
Worth, to achieve LEED certification.
LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) is a system  
for certifying the greenest performing 
buildings in the world. It provides 
independent, third-party verification 
that a building was designed and built 
using strategies aimed at achieving 
high performance in five key areas  
of human and environmental health: 
sustainable site development,  
water efficiency; energy efficiency; 
material selection; and indoor 
environmental quality. 
When it came to planning the new 
headquarters, teams at Weir worked 
with designers to incorporate new 
technology to reduce energy 
consumption, conserve water
and create an attractive, healthy and 
collaborative working environment  
all while ensuring the building was 
affordable to build and operate.
The building, which was opened  
in January 2013, uses ‘low flow’ 
plumbing fixtures such as toilets and 
showerheads to reduce indoor water 
usage by 37%. Solar panels, which 
double up as car park shading in the 
hot Texas sun, also provide up to 5% 
of the building’s power.
Along with these innovative solutions, 
the building was designed to make the 
most of natural resources. The exterior 
design and interior space planning 
were coordinated to maximise natural 
daylight in the building and to provide 
views to the outdoors for 90% of the 
occupants. The facility has so far 
helped contribute to a reduction of 
around 30% in energy usage thanks to 
its innovative design and continues to 
demonstrate Weir’s goal of improving 
the environmental credentials of all 
aspects of its operation.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
DESIGN
Foundry recycling (’000 tonnes)
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53
1
2
3
4
2011
3.4
2012
1.6
1.0
2013
Health and safety
The Weir Group is committed to 
preventing all accidents. That is 
why everyone has the right to stop 
an operation if they think it may 
not be safe. To help realise our 
zero-accident ambition we have 
put in place a series of initiatives 
to keep our people, customers, 
suppliers, sub-contractors and  
the environments in which they 
operate safe. In addition, safety 
has become a standing agenda 
item at every Board meeting of  
the Company.
In December 2013, an employee of Weir Mathena in 
Odessa, Texas, was killed in a road traffic accident close 
to the Mathena depot in Odessa as he was returning from 
a work site. The vehicle that he was driving drifted across 
the central reservation of the highway for an unknown 
reason, colliding with an oncoming vehicle. The employee 
was killed in the collision. No other injuries were sustained 
to third parties involved in the accident. This tragic 
incident has been thoroughly investigated by the local 
police, Weir’s insurance loss adjuster and internally within 
Mathena, but the cause of the accident is still unknown. 
Mathena has been providing support to his wife and 
young family and to his work colleagues. While the cause 
During specific scheme years, participants are required 
to purchase and surrender sufficient CRC allowances  
for their relevant GHG emissions. In 2013, the Company 
purchased and surrendered 3,967 CRC allowances at  
a cost of £47,604. Assuming the Company continues  
to meet the relevant participation criteria, the Company 
will continue to participate in Phase 1 until it ends  
in March 2014, with one further round of allowance 
purchase and surrender. 
A recent legal and technical assessment has confirmed 
that the Group does not qualify as a participant in  
Phase 2 of the scheme and, therefore, will no longer  
be obligated to participate in the CRC Scheme after 
Phase 1 ends in March 2014. This is due to a change  
in the calculation of the qualification threshold whereby 
companies now exclude certain emissions covered  
by an alternative reduction scheme.
The CDP scheme (formerly known as the Carbon 
Disclosure Project) is a global, voluntary initiative  
for major companies to measure, disclose and share 
information about sustainability performance and 
associated risk management and performance with 
transparency and accountability. In 2013, we achieved  
a disclosure score of 77 out of a possible 100 and  
a ‘D’ rating for our sustainability performance relative  
to that of other participants. This was a significant 
improvement on the previous year disclosure score  
of 41, which was below the scheme threshold of 50 for 
receiving a performance rating. This notable improvement 
reflects our ongoing focus of continued improvement  
for all aspects of corporate sustainability.
of the accident may never be known, it has prompted  
the Group nonetheless to conduct a thorough review  
at Group Executive level of its existing driving safety 
procedures against potential contributory factors and  
in particular to ensure that local policies fit within  
a consistent global framework.
EHS Excellence Committee
The action towards a zero-accident workplace is led  
by the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Excellence 
Committee. Its remit is to set and monitor rigorous 
standards to improve EHS performance across the 
Group. In 2013, the committee continued to implement 
the Weir Group EHS Roadmap, which charts the path  
to a safer workplace.
Weir EHS Management System 
The Weir EHS Management System establishes a 
common set of EHS standards and expectations for 
addressing the risks that our operations face. Its purpose 
is to embed health and safety within our culture, 
behaviours and actions. The Duty of Care System provides 
an unbroken chain of accountability from the Chief 
Executive to our newest apprentice and details individual 
responsibilities for managing EHS risks. The EHS 
standards cover nine primary areas of risk from supply 
chain to field operations and provide step-by-step 
guidance on the minimum requirements expected at all  
of Weir’s operations anywhere in the world. Weir has 
appointed Divisional EHS Directors for each of the three 
divisions. These individuals jointly develop EHS strategy 
and are responsible for its execution across the Group.  
In addition, they lead the implementation of the Weir EHS 
Management System and delivery of our EHS objectives.
Weir Zero Harm Behavioural Safety System
In the course of the year, we piloted our Behavioural 
Safety System. It assists in promoting a culture that 
values behaviours which continually improve our EHS 
performance. The system involves face-to-face training  
in identifying behavioural types and behavioural states, 
and the critical errors that these can cause. The training  
is designed to increase awareness of how personal 
behaviours and habits influence risks and promote  
safe behaviours. It has been designed to address 
Weir-specific EHS practice and training in the system  
will be given to all employees.
Measuring progress
All these efforts and more have contributed to a reduction 
in our Total Incident Rate (TIR). TIR measures medical 
treatment of any kind required by employees divided by 
200,000 hours worked. The results for 2013 show that  
our incident rate has reduced by more than a third over 
the course of the year.
TIR performance
Our EHS procedures are regularly assessed. In 2013 we 
commissioned a leading independent EHS consultancy 
to evaluate our systems. This assessment concluded 
Weir was among the ‘best in class’ of those peers who 
publish similar EHS information.  
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 54
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
As a key player in the energy and 
natural resources businesses, we 
are acutely aware of the importance 
of having sustainable products and 
technology. We continue to drive 
for more efficient products which 
not only improve performance  
and durability but also reduce 
environmental impacts. 
Using bespoke three-dimensional laser scanning 
techniques alongside proprietary computation fluid 
dynamic models, Weir has been able to re-engineer 
products designed for use in power stations, refineries 
and process plants. The resultant improvements in 
operating efficiencies allow the products to perform the 
same function using less energy and therefore producing 
less greenhouse gas emissions. Through this initiative 
alone, we estimate the production of some 20,000 tonnes 
of carbon dioxide emissions was avoided in 2013.
Technological innovation throughout Weir also focusses  
on lowering overall operating costs for customers and 
providing equipment and services that contribute to 
workplace safety. An example of cost reduction is the 
introduction of patented Duralast™ technology in 
hydraulic fracturing pumps in North America which  
has increased product service life by a factor of two.
Engineering Excellence Committee
Weir’s Engineering Excellence Committee comprises 
senior engineering and technology leaders from across 
Weir’s three divisions. Its role is to ensure that through 
collaboration and cooperation, we are sharing and 
implementing best practice across all of our engineering 
teams, and specifically, driving leading edge technology 
and innovation. 
The committee drives the innovation strategy across  
the Group and during 2013 facilitated over 20 innovation 
workshops to drive technology breakthroughs around the 
world. The committee also rolled out an enhanced new 
product introduction process, providing cross functional 
teams with leading edge tools and techniques to ensure 
flawless launches of new products and services.
Weir’s approach to health and safety 
continues to be a primary focus across 
each of its divisions. Last year, as a result 
of this commitment, the Power & Industrial 
division’s UK valve facility in Elland was 
recognised in the Occupational Health and 
Safety Awards 2013 by the safety charity 
The Royal Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents (RoSPA), for its approach 
to occupational health and safety.
Dating back 57 years, the RoSPA 
Awards scheme is the largest and 
longest-running programme of  
its kind in the UK. It recognises 
commitment to accident and ill health 
prevention and is open to businesses 
and organisations of all types and 
sizes from across the UK and 
overseas. The scheme not only  
looks at accident records, but also 
overarching health and safety 
management systems, including 
practices such as leadership and 
workforce involvement. 
The RoSPA awards mark 
achievements at merit, bronze,  
silver and gold levels. Organisations 
awarded Gold Awards demonstrate  
a rigorous approach to occupational 
health, high levels of compliance and 
reducing rates of error, harm and loss. 
David Rawlins, RoSPA’s 
awards manager, said: “RoSPA  
firmly believes that organisations  
that demonstrate commitment to 
continuous improvement in accident 
and ill health prevention deserve 
recognition. Weir Valves & Controls 
UK Ltd has shown that it is committed 
to striving for such continuous 
improvement and we are delighted  
to honour it through the presentation 
of this award.” 
Colin Somers, Environment, Health 
and Safety Manager at Weir Valves & 
Controls UK, said: “We are delighted 
to have been awarded the RoSPA 
Gold Award, as it is full testament to 
the proactive approach that has been 
embraced by Weir, to continually 
improve health and safety standards 
for all staff and visitors who work for  
or on the behalf of our Elland facility.” 
SAFETY IN ACTION
Products and technology
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55
2013 saw the appointment of a Group Head of Engineering 
and Technology Development, a new position highlighting 
the enhanced emphasis that we are placing on engineering 
excellence. This position will be responsible for deploying 
the Group technology strategy, further enhancing Weir’s 
already well established relationships with a network of 
academic institutions, advancing our technical capability, 
leading the Engineering Excellence Committee and further 
embedding innovation into the Group’s DNA.
Design and innovation
The Group spent £21.5m (2012: £23.5m) on research  
and development during the financial year. Weir has more 
than doubled its spend on research and development 
since 2009 and views meaningful investment in research 
and development as an essential element in supporting 
innovation, one of our four key pillars. We expect this 
growth in investment to continue as we work towards  
fully meeting customer demands and developing 
products and technologies with an increasingly lower 
environmental impact. Weir is recognised as a world 
leader in the development and application of wear 
resistant materials technology. 
The Weir Advanced Research Centre (WARC), a 
collaboration with the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, 
Scotland, was created in 2011 as the platform for delivering 
world class fundamental and applied research. Seven 
projects were started in 2013 in a number of engineering 
disciplines with another ten planned for 2014. WARC  
is now delivering innovative results across our entire 
technology portfolio as well as helping us push the 
boundaries on new technologies. 
One example of the outputs from this collaboration  
with academia is that the research centre has used the 
skills of world-renowned scientists and engineers with 
access to leading edge finite element analysis techniques 
to develop an innovative valve design, which has the 
potential to double the product service life.
Another notable success was the development of an 
advanced computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model  
for predicting erosive wear caused by dense slurry flows. 
Taking the current CFD capability to the next level has 
empowered our designers, allowing them to reduce  
wear even further through improved designs.
Innovation in material technology has also been undertaken 
to address the more hazardous environments that 
equipment is required to operate in. For example, in Alaska 
pumping equipment working on produced water injection 
applications only lasted three months before having to be 
taken out of service for overhaul. Weir Oil & Gas Aberdeen, 
in collaboration with Conoco Phillips Alaska, has now 
developed equipment designs which incorporate more 
exotic materials. The average time between overhauls has 
been significantly extended and now exceeds two years. 
Many of the Group’s products and services are used in 
low carbon applications such as nuclear and renewables 
power generation. For example, Weir Minerals Lewis 
Pumps produce pump equipment used in solar power 
plants. A portion of the heat produced is stored in molten 
salt during the day when the sun is shining and after the 
sun goes down, the pumps reverse the process to allow 
the heat stored in the salt to be used to power the 
generators during the nighttime hours. As this new 
technology enables power production from solar sources 
during the hours of darkness, and as solar power is a 
cleaner source of energy than fossil fuels, the process 
produces proportionately less carbon per unit of energy.
In the US, carbon emissions have fallen to their lowest level 
since 1994, driven in part by a move from coal to natural gas 
generated electricity sources. In 2012, carbon emissions 
were reduced by 6.5% and, as one of the leading providers  
of pumps and flow equipment to the production of natural 
shale gas, the Weir Group has contributed to this trend. 
Through technological innovation which has improved the 
efficiency of the shale gas industry, Weir has assisted in 
making shale gas a more economical feedstock for power 
generation than more carbon intense alternatives. Weir also 
manufactures its shale products within North America 
reducing potential transportation emissions.
Product stewardship
Weir has introduced formal product stewardship 
processes during the course of 2013. A dedicated team 
of engineers was assigned in the first quarter of 2013 to 
develop policy and protocols for ensuring that adequate 
safeguards will be put in place to mitigate the risk 
inherent in the installation, utilisation and disposal of 
highly technical and sophisticated equipment. Effective 
product stewardship ensures that every aspect of our 
products and services is incorporated in the design 
process. This includes environmental, health and safety 
and social considerations, from the drawing board to 
decommissioning. Design processes are subjected to 
rigorous quality assurance methods and procedures are 
in place to ensure that the risk information associated 
with a product is passed on to the relevant parties. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 56
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
Pauline Lafferty  
Director of Human Resources
Motivated, skilled and effective 
people are imperative to our 
business. We are committed to 
attracting and retaining the best 
people, and developing them to 
ensure they achieve their full 
potential. In doing so, we seek to:
• ensure no form of prejudice stands in the way of 
recruitment, development or promotion opportunities;
•  encourage, invest in and support our employees to 
achieve their full potential;
•  identify the training and development needs of 
employees and find ways to fulfil those requirements;
•  use the Weir Group Personal Development Plan (PDP) 
to address how we can support the development of  
our employees;
•  employ and retain people who share our values and 
behaviours and actively discourage those who do not;
•  work to maintain a business environment where 
individuals feel valued and respected; and
•  provide development opportunities to internationally 
mobile employees by encouraging overseas 
appointments.
Our values
‘The Weir Way’ is the phrase we use to describe how we 
operate. It can be summarised by saying ‘we conduct  
our business ethically, safely and responsibly or not  
at all’. The Weir Way is guided by our seven core values, 
currently expressed as: customer focus, engineering 
excellence, integrity, self-determination, valuing people, 
working together and leadership.
Our values were established over 12 years ago when  
Weir was a much smaller organisation. With a larger 
geographical footprint and a much broader and more 
diverse workforce, we believe now is the time to consider 
our values and ensure they remain the guiding principles 
that our employees live by.
In 2013, we undertook an exercise to redefine our values 
in consultation with our employees across the Group.  
We have mirrored our geographical and cultural diversity 
and conducted workshops across five geographical 
territories. These workshops featured a mix of employees 
participating in the Weir Leadership Programme, our 
Graduate Development Programme and our Business 
Management Programme, as well as a cross section  
of all other employees. The results of this consultation  
indicate that our core values remain the same, but that it 
is appropriate now to re-express these values in language 
more fitting with our business today. The launch of our 
re-expressed values will take place across our global 
organisation in 2014.
Weir Leadership Programme
The Weir Leadership Programme develops high 
performing leaders within our business, equipping  
them with the skills necessary to lead Weir into the  
future. The programme is specifically designed to prepare 
and develop people to think and act strategically and 
enable them to deliver a sustainable step change in  
our leadership capability. Participants are drawn mainly 
from the Senior Management Group, a group of around 
300 senior employees with frontline responsibility for  
the development and delivery of the Group’s strategy.  
In 2013, around 50 senior managers took part in the 
programme, with a total of around 200 managers taking 
part since the programme was launched in 2011.
Weir Business Management Programme
In conjunction with the University of Strathclyde, we  
have facilitated a bespoke business management 
programme for our leaders of the future. The programme 
puts in place a contextualised education programme  
that provides our leaders with the required management 
skills and knowledge to succeed within the Group. In 
2013, around 40 managers took part in the programme, 
with a total of around 60 managers taking part since  
the programme was launched in 2012. Completion  
of the programme leads to a post-graduate Certificate  
in Management. Beyond this, participants could have  
the opportunity to obtain a Diploma in Management 
qualification and then onto a full Masters in Business 
Administration (MBA). One group will start working 
towards the diploma qualification in 2014. As well as the 
academic benefits, the programme promotes greater 
networking and collaboration by bringing together a team 
of people from a mix of divisions, regions and functional 
backgrounds who complete the programme together.
Employees
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57
Weir University
The Weir University is an online learning resource  
which provides all employees with access to continuous 
professional development materials such as e-learning 
courses, presentations and reading material. This online 
resource continues to evolve, providing more modules  
on topics such as health and safety, procurement, 
marketing, lean production practices and vibration 
analysis. Access to the Weir University is available  
to employees across the Group and user numbers 
continue to increase. Since its launch in 2011, over  
5,000 hours of training have been delivered. 
As we look to further enhance our engineering expertise 
across the Group, we plan to develop and launch a 
bespoke Weir MSc programme in 2014 and, following  
a successful pilot in 2013, roll out a dual career ladder  
for engineers. 
Developing our graduates
Our graduate development programme was established 
in 2011 and is designed to provide people joining Weir  
as a graduate with greater leadership understanding  
and experience. It prepares our graduates to take on 
more demanding roles as their career within the Group 
develops. In 2013, we recruited a total of around 50 
graduates from a variety of professional disciplines and  
a further 40 graduates from across the world attended 
the well established induction course in Scotland. Taking 
this to the next stage, we will run an alumni event in 2014, 
for graduates who were recruited in 2011 and 2012. 
Supporting society and developing our people
We undertake various initiatives across the organisation 
in support of the needs of local people within the regions 
in which we operate. One example can be found in 
Sweden where we recruit people from community 
programmes who are without any training or education. 
This programme helps them adapt to society, lifting  
their confidence, competency and capability through  
a combination of academic learning and working with 
experienced Weir professionals who mentor them in  
their new roles. The programme helps reduce local 
unemployment while providing a solid grounding for 
people who would otherwise find it difficult to enter  
the labour market.
Diversity and inclusion
We seek to recruit and develop people regardless  
of background or personal circumstance. All of our 
businesses operate in compliance with the inclusion  
and diversity laws and regulations in their respective 
countries. The majority of our operating companies also 
have an active diversity and inclusion policy in place.
On 3 January 2014, we employed 15,220 people across 
the Group, an increase of 869 since last year. Of our 
15,220 employees, approximately 13,350 are male and 
1,870 are female. There are nine Directors of The Weir 
Group PLC, consisting of seven males and two females. 
The Senior Management Group is made up of 306 people, 
273 of which are male and 33 are female. In addition, 
there are 89 individuals who are Directors of subsidiary 
companies of The Weir Group PLC, who are not part of 
our Senior Management Group. Of these, 84 are male 
and five are female.
A joint business and HR working group is in place to drive 
best practice in embracing diversity and inclusion across 
the organisation and our Finance Director, Jon Stanton, is 
the Executive sponsor for diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
Succession planning
Over 140 years of knowledge and expertise has built Weir 
into the global engineering solutions provider that it is 
today. We recognise the absolute importance of strong 
succession planning to identify our engineers and leaders 
of the future. As such, we have developed a robust 
management and leadership development framework 
which supports the succession planning process across 
each of our businesses.
We recognise the importance of developing talent from 
within the Group as well as bringing in external expertise 
in order to successfully compete in the competitive 
markets of the future. In 2013, 65% of new or replacement 
Senior Management Group positions were internal 
appointments, recognising the increasing success  
of our internal personal development programmes.
Initiatives at a local level seek to ensure knowledge  
is retained within the business. In France, for example, 
Weir’s Power & Industrial team recruit people new to  
the world of work and pair them with mentors who are 
nearing retirement. This programme actively supports 
succession planning and knowledge transition from  
our highly skilled workforce.
In recognition of the increasing development of existing 
employees, in 2014 we will seek to further develop our 
first line managers to equip them with and enhance  
their people management and leadership skills.
Employee engagement
We engage employees across our business through our 
key communication channels: the Weir Bulletin, our online 
magazine which provides employees with news features 
and information from across the Group every two months; 
and the Weir Global Intranet, which provides news,  
blogs, videos and a forum for employees to interact with 
each other on business-related matters on a regular basis,  
as well as policies, procedures and documentation.
In 2014, we will investigate ways to develop innovative 
communication channels to reach employees around  
the world who do not typically have regular access to  
Weir computer systems.  
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 58
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
To complement Weir’s ongoing 
commitment to developing apprentices 
and working in collaboration with our 
customers, Weir Power & Industrial’s 
service business teamed up with EDF 
Energy to participate in their Advanced 
Nuclear Apprenticeship Programme last 
year, as one of the collaborative partners.
Two apprentices were nominated  
by Weir to be trained through the  
EDF Advanced Nuclear Apprentice 
Programme which began in 
September and, on completion, will 
work as Weir employees supporting 
our ongoing business with EDF.
The programme is a bespoke blend  
of academic and vocational training 
coupled with the development of 
personal and social skills for future 
business needs. The first two years 
are residential; academic and 
technical training takes place at  
HMS Sultan in Gosport in the UK, 
while residence, recreation and  
life skills are provided at HMS 
Collingwood in Fareham. 
HMS Sultan is the home of the  
UK’s Royal Naval School of Marine 
Engineering and the Royal Naval  
Air Engineering and Survival School 
whose primary function is to supply 
the fleet with high quality engineers.  
It is also the largest dedicated 
engineering training facility in Europe 
with 2,500 Royal Navy trainees and 
up to 400 commercial apprentices.
The programme represents a further 
strengthening of the excellent 
relationship between Weir and EDF, 
allowing both companies to work 
collaboratively to continue developing 
engineering talent for the future.
ADVANCED NUCLEAR 
APPRENTICESHIP 
PROGRAMME
At a number of our offices, factories, workshops and 
service centres our employees take part in regular Town 
Hall meetings. These sessions are designed to educate, 
inform and share knowledge and understanding of best 
practices. Topics regularly featured include safety, 
conduct and operational performance.
During 2013, the Group held three regional conferences for 
members of the Senior Management Group in Fort Worth, 
Glasgow and Sydney. These events are opportunities for 
senior managers to discuss the strategic direction of the 
Group with members of the Group Executive, sharing best 
practice and aiding our commitment to collaboration. The 
meetings focussed on Group-wide strategy, our ongoing 
commitment to safety culture, and value chain excellence. 
A non-executive member of the Board of Directors gave  
a presentation at each meeting.
We began undertaking employee engagement surveys 
across most companies in the Group in 2013 using an 
employee Net Promoter
®
 scoring (NPS) system. The 
system assesses and evaluates employee satisfaction  
and was used where other engagement survey tools  
are not already in place. A similar NPS system is used  
by Weir externally to help us understand customer 
satisfaction and the use of the same system internally 
allows us to build a consistent picture of a company’s 
customer service and employee engagement performance. 
In 2013, a number of our leaders undertook specialist 
leadership development programmes. One such 
programme was run by CSCLeaders, a global leadership 
conference run by Common Purpose which “assembles 
exceptional senior people from across the Commonwealth 
to tackle challenges that businesses, governments  
and society face today” with the aim of building global 
relationships for them to use in the future.
Other initiatives undertaken during the year included  
the CBI Leadership Programme, an intensive course 
designed to assist with the Group’s succession planning 
in preparing very senior leaders who do not hold board 
positions at company level within the Group for the next 
step in their careers.
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59
Charitable giving
In 2013, the total amount of charitable donations made  
by Weir Group companies was £457,000 (2012: £503,000).
The Weir Group is fortunate to  
be a part of many communities 
around the world. We value the 
contributions these communities 
make to our businesses and  
strive to make a positive impact  
in return. Wherever we operate  
we aim to:
• be responsible employers and neighbours;
• respect the communities we operate in; 
• strive to make a positive impact through the  
responsible running of our operations; and 
• invest in the communities for the long term  
mutual benefit of the community and Weir.
We believe the best people to look after the interests of 
communities are those who live and work there. That is 
why we devolve responsibility for community relations to 
the people who know them best – our local businesses. 
Like any good neighbour, we build close relationships by 
regularly having open conversations so that local people 
are well informed about any of our projects that might 
affect them. Where issues do arise we listen carefully  
and do our best to help find a solution. 
We support our local communities through charitable 
contributions and by being a source of employment, 
education and training. In addition, we support our 
employees in their community initiatives and  
fundraising activities. 
The interaction of our businesses is far reaching but  
is governed by our desire to support and improve  
the communities in which we work. Key priorities are  
the improvement of health and education of both our 
employees and the local community. It is our view that 
contributing to these two areas can have an enduring 
effect on the well-being of the individuals and the 
community as a whole. As a 143 year old engineering 
company we are particularly keen to develop engineering 
excellence. Weir was the first company in Scotland to set 
up an apprentice school and our commitment to training 
is as strong in the 21st century as it was in the 19th.
Community 70%
Education 16%
Health 14%
We do not make any political donations. This includes 
cash and non-cash items such as services, materials, 
employee time and use of corporate facilities. 
Education
Our businesses provide experience and training to 
develop the next generation of engineers. Whilst our 
focus may be on engineering, we also provide work 
placements and internships across all sectors. Our 
placement projects allow school children and young 
people from around the world to see the opportunities 
available to them by working for a global business.
With the aim of promoting opportunities for education 
and careers in engineering, the Weir Group holds an 
Engineering in Schools competition. For the second 
consecutive year, secondary school pupils across 
Scotland were asked to produce a report and present  
on the topic “The importance of engineering in Scotland”. 
This year’s winner came from Wick Academy, competing 
against 16 others to impress the panel with insights into 
renewable energy and winning £4,000 for the school.
2013 also saw the pilot of the Primary Engineer initiative 
which the Weir Group supports as part of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers community. Primary Engineer is 
a not-for-profit organisation established in 2005 with the 
aim of encouraging girls and boys from a very early age 
to become the engineers of the future. This year, a 
volunteer engineer from Weir Services Europe supported 
Murray Primary School in East Kilbride, Scotland by 
sharing his knowledge, skills and experience towards 
delivering engineering focussed lessons. This is  
a long term relationship between our engineer and the 
school and Weir aims to facilitate more of these in the 
coming year.
Charitable donations
Communities  
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 60
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
Before After
The Weir Group has formed an alliance 
with AMAR International Charitable 
Foundation (AMAR). AMAR is a British 
not-for-profit organisation which has 
been working since 1991 to create and 
sustain professional services in medicine, 
public health, education and basic 
need provision within refugee and other 
communities living under stress in war 
zones or in areas of civil disorder and 
disruption. Particular communities of 
focus are in Iraq, Lebanon and other key 
areas of the Middle East and South Asia. 
With the partnership agreement 
entered into in August 2013, the Weir 
Group has committed to supporting 
AMAR financially over the next three 
years to improve health, education  
and training in Basra, Iraq. Basra is  
the base for Weir’s operations in Iraq. 
The current project will refurbish  
the female sanitation facilities at  
seven schools in Iraq which were 
officially confirmed as high priority 
establishments by the Basra 
Directorate of Education.
With the majority of school facilities 
lacking access to running water  
or a waste water disposal system,  
not only are the current conditions 
inadequate, they are such that female 
pupils often feel prevented from 
attending school as they reach 
adolescence, which acts as a barrier to 
social mobility and future employment 
opportunities. The proposed work will 
directly benefit approximately 6,250 
pupils and dozens of teachers every 
day. Substantial work on four of the 
schools has already begun.
CHARITABLE 
ALLIANCE
At Weir Minerals Lewis Pumps in St Louis, Missouri,  
the business works in partnership with Granite City High 
School offering opportunities for students interested in 
entering vocational training. Mentoring is provided and 
several students have graduated from high school into 
the new CNC Machinist Apprenticeship Program.
Weir Minerals Floway in Fresno, California, encourages 
schools and engineering students from the local university 
to tour the factory. The operations team also routinely 
participates in community outreach programmes to 
highlight the importance of manufacturing skills such  
as welding and machining.
At Weir American Hydro in York, Pennsylvania, the 
business works with York County School of Technology 
to provide local individuals with practical, hands-on work 
experience and education to develop the next generation 
of machinist and welders. It also runs an Engineering 
Department Co-op Program with York College, to provide 
work experience and education for young people.  
This has resulted in permanent engineering positions 
being offered to several participants.
Weir China is engaged in social practice sessions with 
senior student classes at Cheng Jia Special Education 
School in Shanghai and in 2013 received the award  
of ‘Golden Heart Organisation’. Once a month, Weir 
employees from different parts of the business participate 
in the programme. The school is an art and mental health 
education model school. The aim is to develop pupils’  
skills to make them more independent in the future. It is 
estimated that almost 100 employee hours have been 
spent volunteering on this project in 2013.
Weir Mathena in El Reno, Oklahoma, works in partnership 
with the University of Oklahoma to enhance the 
undergraduate learning experience through mentoring, 
experiential learning, research and technological 
innovations. A design programme with Mechanical 
Engineering students is undertaken each year. In addition, 
the company is also a member of the University of 
Oklahoma School of Aerospace and Mechanical 
Engineering Advisory Board. Members of staff attend 
meetings each semester to advise and collaborate on 
strategic initiatives related to the school and its graduates. 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61
Environmental awareness
As outlined in the environment section of this report,  
we are conscious of the potential impacts our businesses 
can have on the environment and that the environment 
can have on our operations. Our community relations 
often reflect this and aim to increase awareness about 
issues that are core to how we operate. In 2013,  
Weir Minerals Brasil ran an environmental awareness 
programme educating local students to understand  
and preserve the environment in which they live.  
The programme was developed in partnership with  
the local environmental institute.
Weir Minerals France took part in the Industry Cup in 
2013. The aim of the programme is to enable young 
people at middle school, aged approximately 15 years 
old, to gain an understanding of industrial businesses  
and related jobs and products. Pupils focussed on how 
our products integrate on the sites of our customers  
and the environmental impact they might have. The 
programme involved a site visit and a visit to a granite 
quarry to see Weir pumps in operation. The pupils then 
presented their findings and were awarded the Industrial 
Environment Trophy. 
Weir Oil & Gas Aberdeen worked in partnership with 
students from Robert Gordon’s College who were taking 
part in an Engineering Education Scheme. The students 
undertook a review of the business’ current facilities  
and its electricity and water usage in order to provide 
recommendations on how wastage of electrical energy 
and water could be reduced.
Employee activities
The Weir Group is very proud of the charitable work that 
its employees undertake. Our businesses operate their 
own policies for supporting these, whether by matching 
donations, providing support or equipment or by allowing 
employees to participate in charitable activities during 
working hours.
A small selection of the numerous projects undertaken  
by our employees in 2013 is highlighted below:
• Twice a year all employees and their families at  
Weir Minerals Mexico give up a Saturday to help  
paint local schools.
•  Weir SPM employees in Texas, USA, remodelled  
a bathroom at a local nursing home and have  
started an ‘Adopt a Grandparent’ monthly event.
•  At Weir Minerals Australia, employees can take up  
to five days paid leave if they are undertaking 
emergency or disaster relief work in the community.
•  At Weir Marine Engineering (NETE) in Montreal, 
Canada, employees raised C$115,000 for Make- 
a-Wish Foundation and C$400,000 for Peddle  
for Kids at the Montreal Children’s Hospital.
• Employees at Weir Services Europe in Alloa, Scotland, 
carried out maintenance tasks at a hospice for 
children during working hours.
The Code of Conduct provides  
a clear framework for decision-
making, highlighting the values 
and behaviours we expect our 
people to demonstrate whilst 
making those decisions.  
It provides details of how we 
expect our people to conduct 
themselves on a day-to-day  
basis and guidance on where  
to go for help.
The Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) covers a wide range of 
topics including anti-bribery and corruption, competition 
(antitrust) law, developing our people, health and safety, 
use of company property and resources, and conflicts  
of interest. It is available in a wide range of languages  
and has practical examples to assist interpretation.
A major review of the Code was undertaken during 2013 
with input from various sectors of the Company. The 
revised Code received Board approval in January 2014 
and is due to be rolled out during 2014. This reflects 
developments in a number of areas, both externally and 
within the Group, since it was first introduced in January 
2011. In particular these changes address developments 
in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption and in relation 
to competition (antitrust) law. 
A hard copy of the updated Code will be provided 
individually to all employees and can also be accessed  
by our employees on our intranet, as well as being 
available to download from our website.
Regular training is provided on the Code to all our 
employees. A mandatory e-learning programme is aimed 
at those employees who are deemed to have a higher risk 
of exposure to bribery and corruption as a consequence 
Keith Ruddock
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Ethics  
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 62
Strategic Report: 
Sustainability Review
Business Integrity Forum Member
The Weir Group has been a member of 
the FTSE4Good Index since September 
2013. The Company is also a member 
of Transparency International UK’s 
Business Integrity Forum, having 
joined in September 2011. 
To be included in the FTSE4Good 
Index, a company’s risk and 
performance for material environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) issues are 
examined. The six ESG criteria themes 
cover: environmental management, 
climate change, human and labour 
rights, supply chain labour standards, 
countering bribery, and corporate 
governance. Companies with higher 
ESG risks must achieve more to obtain 
a high score. The ratings indicate a 
company’s success at managing its 
company specific ESG risks.
FTSE Group confirms that The Weir 
Group PLC has been independently 
assessed according to the 
FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied 
the requirements to become a 
constituent of the FTSE4Good Index 
Series. Created by the global index 
company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is 
an equity index series that is designed 
to facilitate investment in companies 
that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards. 
Companies in the FTSE4Good  
Index Series have met stringent 
environmental, social and governance 
criteria, and are positioned to capitalise 
on the benefits of responsible business 
practice. The Weir Group PLC is  
very proud to be included in the 
FTSE4Good Index.
Transparency International UK (TI-UK) 
is the country’s leading anti-corruption 
organisation and part of the global 
Transparency International (TI) 
movement. With colleagues working  
in more than 100 countries, TI has 
unparalleled global understanding  
and expertise in this area. 
The Business Integrity Forum (BIF)  
is the UK’s leading anti-corruption 
forum for businesses in all sectors, 
comprising companies and 
professional firms of all sizes. Through 
their membership, companies are 
demonstrating their support for 
Transparency International’s work, 
helping TI in its mission to reduce 
corruption in both the public and the 
private sector throughout the world.  
All members’ sign up to a set of 
principles and are dedicated to 
ensuring their operations and business 
dealings are corruption free. Through 
the Forum, companies have the 
opportunity to have well informed 
discussions with peers and experts, 
increasing their knowledge in relation 
to risks, mitigations and emerging 
trends, as well as making a positive 
contribution to TI-UK’s thought 
leadership and to the wider 
international debate on corruption.
Peter van Veen, Director of the 
Business Integrity Programme said: 
“We value The Weir Group PLC as  
a member of the Business Integrity 
Forum. By their continuing membership 
they have made clear their commitment 
to ensure their operations and business 
dealings are free of corruption in the UK 
and abroad.” 
of their decision-making responsibilities in regard to third 
parties including customers, suppliers, and sales agents. 
Employees receiving this training include:
• The Senior Management Group;
• Sales and Marketing employees;
• Purchasing employees; and
• Finance employees.
The same group of employees are also required to complete 
a regular online certification process to confirm that they  
are in compliance with the Code of Conduct. In 2013, over 
2,500 employees completed the e-learning programme.  
The completion of the e-learning programme and online 
certification is monitored by the Company Secretary.
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through various 
means of communications with our employees, such  
as induction training, Town Hall meetings, conferences, 
training courses and our 100 day integration plan for  
new acquisitions.
The Code applies to everyone who is employed by the 
Weir Group and compliance is of the utmost importance. 
Anyone found in breach of the Code may be liable to 
disciplinary action up to and including termination of 
employment or cancellation of contract.
Human rights
As part of its human rights policy, the Group has adopted 
a series of human rights principles across all of its 
businesses. The principles relate to: anti-discriminatory 
attitudes and respect for ethical values; employee rights, 
which include health and safety, living wages, working 
hours, and freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining; and prohibition of child labour.
By promoting sound ethical values and human rights 
principles, Weir aims to be an aspiring business with which 
people are proud to be involved. The Weir Group Human 
Rights Policy expresses the organisation’s commitment  
to promoting and upholding the “common standard of 
achievement for all people and all nations” as endorsed  
by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Other 
guiding principles include those of the Conventions of the 
International Labour Organisation and the United Nations 
Convention on the Rights of the Child. These manifest 
themselves in Weir’s anti-discriminatory attitudes and 
respect for ethical values, providing our people with  
a safe and healthy working environment and fairness in 
employment terms. For example, national living wage  
is applied and working hours determined in accordance  
with applicable laws as well as the recognition and 
non-discrimination of rights of association in collective 
bargaining. In addition, Weir has a zero tolerance of  
the employment of children in any of its businesses.
SUSTAINABILITY 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63
We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the world we are 
working. We will respect the human rights of all those 
working for or with us, and of the people in the communities 
where we operate. We will not do business with companies, 
organisations or individuals that we believe are not working 
to acceptable human rights standards. 
We expect employees to maintain the highest standards 
of conformity with these principles and their adoption and 
adherence is contained within Weir’s Code of Conduct. 
To ensure this policy is upheld in practice, in addition to 
Group-wide assurance activity, all operating companies 
complete a compliance scorecard self-assessment twice 
per annum which assesses compliance with Group 
policies and procedures.
Suppliers and third parties
We source raw materials, components and services 
across the globe. Our suppliers play a critical role in our 
business and our relationships with them are based on 
achieving best performance, product, delivery, service 
and total cost in an ethical and sustainable manner. 
Embracing a closer relationship with our key suppliers  
is fundamental to our Value Chain Excellence initiative, 
launched in 2013 as Weir’s fourth strategic pillar.
The Group recognises that its responsibilities extend to 
our supply chain. We have a Supply Chain Policy which 
sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers 
to abide by in connection with:
• how they treat their workforce;
• legal and regulatory compliance;
• health and safety;
• business ethics; and
•  e n viro n m e n t a l s t a n d a r d s .
During 2013, the Group has been working on increasing 
the level of contractual agreements in place with our 
supply base. These now equate to almost 50% of  
our total spend. 
In addition, the Code of Conduct is issued to our key 
suppliers. Assessments are undertaken with regard  
to compliance with Group standards as part of the  
vetting process for new suppliers. We also audit our  
key suppliers annually to assess ongoing compliance 
with the Supply Chain Policy and other relevant Group 
standards. Wherever possible, we work with our suppliers 
to support them to address weaknesses identified.  
The Weir Group is committed to working only with third 
parties, including customers, sub-contractors, suppliers 
and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose 
business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our 
own Code of Conduct.
External sales agents
The Group engages a number of external sales agents 
across the globe to act on its behalf in locations where  
it does not have a permanent sales presence, or in regard 
to specific projects. The Group has a sales agents’ manual 
which sets out the Group requirements with regard  
to appointing and reappointing agents, as well as the 
ongoing monitoring requirements. Due diligence is 
performed prior to all appointments and reappointments 
and overseen by the legal department. The standard Weir 
contract must be used unless the legal department have 
agreed modifications, but the terms of the agreements 
always include stipulation that agents must comply with 
the Code of Conduct. The agents are required to confirm 
in writing their compliance with the Code of Conduct. 
Gifts and hospitality
We recognise that gifts and hospitality have the potential 
to create a conflict of interest, or the perception of a 
conflict of interest. As a result, there are Group policies 
with regard to receiving and giving gifts and hospitality 
from, and to, third parties. In no circumstances should 
gifts or hospitality be solicited, and they should not  
place the recipient under any obligation.
All gifts and hospitality above the minimum threshold 
must be pre-approved using an online gifts and 
hospitality register. Our Internal Audit team assess 
compliance with the Group’s gifts and hospitality policies 
during audit visits and undertake monthly reviews of the 
register, which are shared with senior management. 
Reporting issues
The Group encourages our people to discuss any ethical 
concerns they may have with local management or the 
legal department. In addition, the Weir Ethics Hotline,  
an independent and confidential telephone helpline and 
an online reporting system is available for our employees, 
partners and third parties to call or email with any 
concerns that they have concerning unethical behaviour. 
Calls to the helpline are free and lines are open 24 hours  
a day, seven days a week. Reports can be made in a wide 
range of languages reflecting our global footprint.
All reports are investigated. During 2013, 21 reports were 
submitted via the Weir Ethics Hotline and each report was 
fully investigated. No action was required in seven cases, 
and the remaining cases were appropriately addressed 
through further training, policy review and communication 
improvements. Confidentiality is maintained wherever 
possible. Complainants can receive updates and the 
details of the outcome of the investigation via the Ethics 
helpline when it is possible to provide this in adherence 
with privacy or local legal restrictions. 
The Strategic Report, covering pages 1 to 63 of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013, has been 
approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Keith Ruddock
Company Secretary
26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 64
Directors’ Report: 
Board of Directors
Charles Berry 
Chairman (61) 
Keith  
Cochrane 
Chief Executive (49)
Alan Ferguson 
Non-Executive 
Director (56)
Melanie Gee 
Non-Executive  
Director (52) 
Mary Jo Jacobi
Non-Executive  
Director (62)
Richard (Rick) 
Menell 
Non-Executive 
Director (58) 
John Mogford 
Non-Executive  
Director (60) 
Lord Robertson  
of Port Ellen 
Non-Executive  
Director (67) 
Jon Stanton 
Finance Director (46) 
Nationality
British British British British Dual American and 
British citizenship
South African British British British
Date of appointment
Non-Executive Director since 
March 2013 and Chairman 
since January 2014.
Joined the Group as Finance 
Director in July 2006 and 
appointed Chief Executive 
in November 2009.
December 2011. May 2011. January 2014. April 2009. June 2008. February 2004. April 2010.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Member of 
the Audit & Remuneration 
Committees during 2013.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Member of the Audit, Nomination 
& Remuneration Committees.
Member of the Audit & 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committees.
None.
Expertise
Charles was an Executive 
Director of Scottish Power plc 
from 1999 to 2005 and Chief 
Executive of their UK division 
between 2000 and 2005.  
Prior to joining Scottish Power, 
he was Group Development 
Director of Norwest Holst, 
a subsidiary of Compagnie 
Générale des Eaux and held 
management positions within 
subsidiaries of Pilkington plc. 
He is a former Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of 
Eaga plc and Thus Group plc, 
and a former Non-Executive 
Director of Impax Environmental 
Markets PLC and Securities 
Trust of Scotland plc.
Following a number of years 
with Arthur Andersen, Keith 
joined Stagecoach Group plc 
in 1993. He was appointed 
Finance Director in 1996 and 
Group Chief Executive in 2000. 
He joined ScottishPower plc 
in 2003 where he became 
Director of Group Finance.
He is a chartered 
accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Alan was Chief Financial Officer 
and a Director of Lonmin plc, 
one of the world’s largest 
producers of platinum group 
metals, from 2007 until 2010. 
Prior to his role with Lonmin, 
he held the position of Group 
Finance Director with the 
BOC Group plc. Before this 
he spent 22 years working 
for Inchcape plc in a variety 
of roles, including six years 
as Group Finance Director.
Alan is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and sits on their 
Business Policy Committee.
Melanie is a Senior Adviser for 
Lazard & Co. Limited, having 
worked for them since 2008. 
Formerly, she spent a number 
of years with S.G. Warburg 
(now part of UBS) and was 
appointed a Managing Director 
of UBS in 1999. Between 2006 
and 2008 she was a Senior 
Relationship Director of UBS. 
She was an alternate member 
of The Takeover Panel – LIBA 
(CFC) between 2006 and 2013.
Melanie was reappointed 
to the Council of Fauna & 
Flora International in 2013, 
having previously served 
from 2007 until 2010.
Mary Jo is currently the 
Managing Director of her own 
consultancy practice and a 
board mentor with Critical  
Eye. She is a member of The 
Leadership Council and holds 
several advisory and consultancy 
roles in the not-for-profit sector.
She was formerly a Senior 
Executive of Royal Dutch Shell 
plc, BP America Inc., Lehman 
Brothers Inc., HSBC Holdings 
plc and Drexel Burnham 
Lambert Inc. She was a Non-
Executive Director of Tate & Lyle 
plc between 1999 and 2004.
She previously served in the 
administrations of Presidents 
Reagan and George H.W. 
Bush. She currently serves on 
the UK Advisory Committee 
on Business Appointments 
and is a visiting Fellow 
at Oxford University.
Rick worked as an investment 
banker before joining Anglovaal 
Group in 1992. He was 
appointed Chief Executive of 
Anglovaal Mining in 1996 then 
Executive Chairman in 2002. 
In 2005, he left to become 
President and Chief Executive 
of TEAL Exploration & Mining 
Inc. He was formerly Chairman 
of Avgold Ltd (1996-2004) and 
Bateman Engineering BV (2005-
2009) and Director of Mutual 
& Federal Insurance Company 
Ltd (1996-2010) and Standard 
Bank Group Ltd (1997-2011). 
Rick is a Senior Advisor to 
Credit Suisse and Chairman 
of Credit Suisse Securities 
(Johannesburg) (Pty) Limited.
He serves as a Director on a 
number of unlisted companies 
and not-for-profit organisations.
He is a fellow of the Geological 
Society (London), and 
both the Australasian and 
South African Institutes of 
Mining and Metallurgy. 
John is currently a Managing 
Director for First Reserve, a large 
global energy focussed private 
equity firm. As part of this role 
he sits on several boards.
He was formerly an Executive 
Vice President of BP plc having 
been with BP for over 30 years, 
initially in their exploration 
division and progressively rising 
to Executive Vice President 
(Chief Operating Officer US 
Downstream & Head of Refining). 
He held numerous positions 
in every area of operations 
from gas and renewables to 
upstream and downstream oil.
He was formerly Chairman 
of Amromco Energy LLC in 
Romania, White Rose Energy 
Ventures LLP in the UK and a 
Non-Executive Director of Deep 
Gulf Energy LP in America. 
He is a fellow of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers.
Lord Robertson is an  
Adviser to Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc, Special 
Adviser to BP plc and a Senior 
Counsellor with The Cohen 
Group (USA). He was the 
Secretary of State for Defence 
from 1997 until 1999 before 
becoming Secretary General 
of NATO from 1999 until 2003. 
He was formerly a Director of 
Smiths Group plc (2004-2006) 
and Deputy Chairman of Cable 
& Wireless Communications 
Plc (2004-2006) and 
TNK-BP Ltd (2006-2013).
A member of Her Majesty’s 
Privy Council, he is Chairman 
of the Ditchley Foundation 
and of the Commission on 
Global Road Safety. He is 
honorary Professor of Politics at 
Stirling University, an honorary 
Fellow of the Royal Society of 
Edinburgh, an Elder Brother of 
the Corporation of Trinity House 
and is Chancellor of the Order 
of St Michael and St George. 
Jon was formerly a partner with 
Ernst & Young LLP having joined 
as a graduate trainee in their 
Birmingham office in 1988.  
He was appointed as a partner 
in their London office in 2001 
with lead responsibility for the 
audit of a number of FTSE 
100 multinational clients.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales.
Key external appointments
Non-Executive Chairman 
of Drax Group plc. 
Non-Executive Chairman 
of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director 
of Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra Society Ltd.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of London Mining plc. 
Non-Executive Director 
of Drax Group plc.
Non-Executive Director 
of Mulvaney Capital 
Management Limited.
Non-Executive Director of 
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye 
Gold Limited, both South 
African companies listed on 
the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the New 
York Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
Rockwell Diamonds Inc., a 
South African company listed 
on both the Johannesburg 
Stock Exchange and the 
Toronto Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of CHC 
Helicopters SA in Luxembourg.
Non-Executive Director 
of DOF Subsea AS in 
Norway and Midstates 
Petroleum Inc in America. 
Non-Executive Director of 
Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd.
None.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65
Charles Berry 
Chairman (61) 
Keith  
Cochrane 
Chief Executive (49)
Alan Ferguson 
Non-Executive 
Director (56)
Melanie Gee 
Non-Executive  
Director (52) 
Mary Jo Jacobi
Non-Executive  
Director (62)
Richard (Rick) 
Menell 
Non-Executive 
Director (58) 
John Mogford 
Non-Executive  
Director (60) 
Lord Robertson  
of Port Ellen 
Non-Executive  
Director (67) 
Jon Stanton 
Finance Director (46) 
Nationality
British British British British Dual American and 
British citizenship
South African British British British
Date of appointment
Non-Executive Director since 
March 2013 and Chairman 
since January 2014.
Joined the Group as Finance 
Director in July 2006 and 
appointed Chief Executive 
in November 2009.
December 2011. May 2011. January 2014. April 2009. June 2008. February 2004. April 2010.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Member of 
the Audit & Remuneration 
Committees during 2013.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Member of the Audit, Nomination 
& Remuneration Committees.
Member of the Audit & 
Nomination Committees.
Member of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committees.
None.
Expertise
Charles was an Executive 
Director of Scottish Power plc 
from 1999 to 2005 and Chief 
Executive of their UK division 
between 2000 and 2005.  
Prior to joining Scottish Power, 
he was Group Development 
Director of Norwest Holst, 
a subsidiary of Compagnie 
Générale des Eaux and held 
management positions within 
subsidiaries of Pilkington plc. 
He is a former Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of 
Eaga plc and Thus Group plc, 
and a former Non-Executive 
Director of Impax Environmental 
Markets PLC and Securities 
Trust of Scotland plc.
Following a number of years 
with Arthur Andersen, Keith 
joined Stagecoach Group plc 
in 1993. He was appointed 
Finance Director in 1996 and 
Group Chief Executive in 2000. 
He joined ScottishPower plc 
in 2003 where he became 
Director of Group Finance.
He is a chartered 
accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Alan was Chief Financial Officer 
and a Director of Lonmin plc, 
one of the world’s largest 
producers of platinum group 
metals, from 2007 until 2010. 
Prior to his role with Lonmin, 
he held the position of Group 
Finance Director with the 
BOC Group plc. Before this 
he spent 22 years working 
for Inchcape plc in a variety 
of roles, including six years 
as Group Finance Director.
Alan is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and sits on their 
Business Policy Committee.
Melanie is a Senior Adviser for 
Lazard & Co. Limited, having 
worked for them since 2008. 
Formerly, she spent a number 
of years with S.G. Warburg 
(now part of UBS) and was 
appointed a Managing Director 
of UBS in 1999. Between 2006 
and 2008 she was a Senior 
Relationship Director of UBS. 
She was an alternate member 
of The Takeover Panel – LIBA 
(CFC) between 2006 and 2013.
Melanie was reappointed 
to the Council of Fauna & 
Flora International in 2013, 
having previously served 
from 2007 until 2010.
Mary Jo is currently the 
Managing Director of her own 
consultancy practice and a 
board mentor with Critical  
Eye. She is a member of The 
Leadership Council and holds 
several advisory and consultancy 
roles in the not-for-profit sector.
She was formerly a Senior 
Executive of Royal Dutch Shell 
plc, BP America Inc., Lehman 
Brothers Inc., HSBC Holdings 
plc and Drexel Burnham 
Lambert Inc. She was a Non-
Executive Director of Tate & Lyle 
plc between 1999 and 2004.
She previously served in the 
administrations of Presidents 
Reagan and George H.W. 
Bush. She currently serves on 
the UK Advisory Committee 
on Business Appointments 
and is a visiting Fellow 
at Oxford University.
Rick worked as an investment 
banker before joining Anglovaal 
Group in 1992. He was 
appointed Chief Executive of 
Anglovaal Mining in 1996 then 
Executive Chairman in 2002. 
In 2005, he left to become 
President and Chief Executive 
of TEAL Exploration & Mining 
Inc. He was formerly Chairman 
of Avgold Ltd (1996-2004) and 
Bateman Engineering BV (2005-
2009) and Director of Mutual 
& Federal Insurance Company 
Ltd (1996-2010) and Standard 
Bank Group Ltd (1997-2011). 
Rick is a Senior Advisor to 
Credit Suisse and Chairman 
of Credit Suisse Securities 
(Johannesburg) (Pty) Limited.
He serves as a Director on a 
number of unlisted companies 
and not-for-profit organisations.
He is a fellow of the Geological 
Society (London), and 
both the Australasian and 
South African Institutes of 
Mining and Metallurgy. 
John is currently a Managing 
Director for First Reserve, a large 
global energy focussed private 
equity firm. As part of this role 
he sits on several boards.
He was formerly an Executive 
Vice President of BP plc having 
been with BP for over 30 years, 
initially in their exploration 
division and progressively rising 
to Executive Vice President 
(Chief Operating Officer US 
Downstream & Head of Refining). 
He held numerous positions 
in every area of operations 
from gas and renewables to 
upstream and downstream oil.
He was formerly Chairman 
of Amromco Energy LLC in 
Romania, White Rose Energy 
Ventures LLP in the UK and a 
Non-Executive Director of Deep 
Gulf Energy LP in America. 
He is a fellow of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers.
Lord Robertson is an  
Adviser to Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc, Special 
Adviser to BP plc and a Senior 
Counsellor with The Cohen 
Group (USA). He was the 
Secretary of State for Defence 
from 1997 until 1999 before 
becoming Secretary General 
of NATO from 1999 until 2003. 
He was formerly a Director of 
Smiths Group plc (2004-2006) 
and Deputy Chairman of Cable 
& Wireless Communications 
Plc (2004-2006) and 
TNK-BP Ltd (2006-2013).
A member of Her Majesty’s 
Privy Council, he is Chairman 
of the Ditchley Foundation 
and of the Commission on 
Global Road Safety. He is 
honorary Professor of Politics at 
Stirling University, an honorary 
Fellow of the Royal Society of 
Edinburgh, an Elder Brother of 
the Corporation of Trinity House 
and is Chancellor of the Order 
of St Michael and St George. 
Jon was formerly a partner with 
Ernst & Young LLP having joined 
as a graduate trainee in their 
Birmingham office in 1988.  
He was appointed as a partner 
in their London office in 2001 
with lead responsibility for the 
audit of a number of FTSE 
100 multinational clients.
He is a chartered accountant 
and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales.
Key external appointments
Non-Executive Chairman 
of Drax Group plc. 
Non-Executive Chairman 
of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director 
of Royal Scottish National 
Orchestra Society Ltd.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chairman 
of London Mining plc. 
Non-Executive Director 
of Drax Group plc.
Non-Executive Director 
of Mulvaney Capital 
Management Limited.
Non-Executive Director of 
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye 
Gold Limited, both South 
African companies listed on 
the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange and the New 
York Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of 
Rockwell Diamonds Inc., a 
South African company listed 
on both the Johannesburg 
Stock Exchange and the 
Toronto Stock Exchange.
Non-Executive Director of CHC 
Helicopters SA in Luxembourg.
Non-Executive Director 
of DOF Subsea AS in 
Norway and Midstates 
Petroleum Inc in America. 
Non-Executive Director of 
Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd.
None.
Lord Smith  
of Kelvin
Former Chairman (69) 
British 
 
Non-Executive Director 
from February 2002 and 
Chairman from July 2002. 
Retired in December 2013.
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee during 2013.
Lord Smith was formerly 
Chairman and Chief 
Executive of Morgan Grenfell 
Private Equity and was 
Chief Executive of Morgan 
Grenfell Asset Management 
between 2000 and 2002. 
He is a chartered accountant 
and a past president of 
the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland.
Chairman of SSE PLC 
(formerly Scottish 
and Southern Energy 
PLC); Chairman of the 
UK Green Investment 
Bank plc; Chairman of 
Glasgow 2014 Limited, 
the organising committee 
for the Commonwealth 
Games; Non-Executive 
Director of Standard Bank 
Group Ltd in South Africa 
and Chancellor of the 
University of Strathclyde.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 66
Directors’ Report: 
Group Executive
GROUP EXECUTIVE
Name and title
Dean Jenkins 
Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director (42) 
Steve Noon 
Oil & Gas Divisional 
Managing Director (49) 
John Heasley 
Power & Industrial 
Divisional Managing 
Director (39) 
Keith Ruddock 
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary (53) 
Biography Dean is based in Melbourne, 
Australia. He joined the Group 
in November 2010, becoming 
Power & Industrial Divisional 
Managing Director in January 
2011. He was appointed to 
his current role in August 
2012. Dean previously worked 
for Qantas Airlines and the 
Australian listed infrastructure 
services company UGL Ltd, 
most recently as Chief Executive 
of the latter’s Rail Division.
Steve is based in Fort Worth, 
USA. He joined the Group 
in 2007. He has worked with 
several multinationals including 
Schefenacker Vision Systems, 
James Hardie Industries and 
The Toro Company. Before 
joining the Group in 2007, he 
held the position of president 
of Schefenacker Vision 
Systems, North America.
John joined the Group 
Executive in January 2014 
as Divisional Managing 
Director for Weir Power and 
Industrial. He is based at 
the Divisional headquarters 
in East Kilbride, Scotland. 
A chartered accountant, he 
has held a number of senior 
financial, commercial and 
operational roles. John joined 
Weir in 2008 as Group Financial 
Controller before becoming 
Valves Managing Director in the 
Power & Industrial division.
Keith is based at the Group’s 
Head Office in Glasgow. He 
joined the Group in April 2012 
from Royal Dutch Shell PLC, 
where he was General Counsel 
for Upstream International, 
Shell’s largest business unit, 
based in The Hague. He 
has extensive international 
commercial and legal 
experience, having worked 
in the Middle East, North 
America, Africa, Australasia 
and Europe and was a 
member of Shell’s Upstream 
International leadership team.
Name and title
Pauline Lafferty 
Director of Human  
Resources (48) 
Gavin Nicol 
Director of Operations 
Support and 
Development (52)
Andrew Neilson 
Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Affairs (38) 
Biography Pauline is based at the Group’s 
Head Office in Glasgow. She 
joined the Group in 2011. Pauline 
was previously in executive 
search with Miles Partnership 
and Russell Reynolds Associates 
in the UK and Australia. Prior 
to this, she held business 
planning and operational roles 
for 11 years with Motorola and 
Digital Equipment Corporation 
(DEC) in Scotland, Australia 
and Hong Kong, ultimately 
becoming Asia Pacific 
Director of Supply for DEC.
Gavin is the Director of 
Operations Support & 
Development based at the 
Group’s Head Office in Glasgow. 
He was previously President of 
Weir SPM for two years, based in 
Fort Worth, Texas. Gavin joined 
Weir in 2005 and was managing 
director of the Weir Pumps 
business prior to its sale in 2007. 
Before joining Weir, he worked 
for a number of multinationals 
including the Terex Corporation, 
PwC and Coats Viyella.
Andrew joined the Group 
Executive in January 2014 
as Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Affairs. He is 
based at the Group’s Head 
Office in Glasgow. Andrew 
holds a Masters degree in 
engineering from the University 
of Strathclyde and he is a 
member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of 
Scotland. Before joining Weir in 
2010, he held a variety of senior 
roles with banking, energy and 
professional services companies 
including HSBC, HBOS, 
Scottish Power and KPMG.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive. Their biographical information can be found on pages 64 and 65. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT
I am approaching my first 
anniversary as a Director of  
the Weir Group having joined in 
March last year. In that time I have 
gained a clear understanding of 
the business and can assure you 
that good corporate governance  
is paramount to all that we do.  
I come from a strong background 
of governance work through  
my various executive and non-
executive roles. Lord Smith has  
led this Board for the last 11 years 
with an exemplary record of 
openness, honesty and integrity 
and I look forward to maintaining 
that best practice in future years.
3 January 2014, and from that date to the date of approval 
of this Annual Report, with the exception of one part of  
a provision which is detailed on page 68.
Changes to the Board
Board Changes during 2013 and early 2014:
• I was appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013.
• I was subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman on  
1 May 2013.
• Lord Smith retired from the Board and as Chairman  
on 31 December 2013. He also retired as Chairman  
of the Nomination Committee.
• I was appointed Chairman of the Board and 
Nomination Committee Chairman on 1 January 2014.
• Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed Non-Executive 
Director on 1 January 2014.
Induction and training
For a Board to function at its best, individual Directors 
must be equipped with the knowledge and skills  
needed to undertake their role effectively. I underwent  
a sustained period of induction, learning about the 
Company in advance of becoming Chairman. The 
knowledge gained by doing this was invaluable in  
order to allow me to take on this role with a confident 
understanding of the business and how it operates.  
I will be supporting a continued induction programme  
for all new Directors in addition to ongoing training.  
More details on this can be found on page 73.
Succession planning and diversity
To maintain an effective Board, it is essential to plan for 
the future and to ensure the right individuals are selected 
to the Board from a diverse pool of talent. The Board 
considers itself diverse in terms of the background and 
experience which each individual brings to the Board.  
All future appointments will continue to be based on 
merit, however, the Board aspires to maintain a significant 
level of female representation on the Board. More details 
on our diversity policy can be found in the Nomination 
Committee Report on page 78. Details of the proportion 
of women on the Board, in senior executive positions  
and within the whole organisation can be found on  
page 57 of the Sustainability Review.
Risk and sustainability
I am mindful that operating under good governance 
means a continued focus on two primary areas: risk  
and sustainability. Board decisions are not made without 
taking these in to consideration and I will ensure that they 
continue to receive the time and prominence in the Board 
room that they deserve. The relevant sections in the 
Annual Report can be found from pages 24 and 49.
Charles Berry 
Chairman
26 February 2014
UK Corporate Governance Code
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that under  
my leadership the Board of Directors of The Weir Group 
PLC operates effectively and in compliance with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code. In accordance with  
the Listing Rules, the Weir Group is reporting on how  
it has applied the main principles and whether we  
have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.  
The Code was revised in September 2012 primarily  
with changes to the disclosures for auditors and the  
audit committee. Alan Ferguson, as the Chairman  
of the Audit Committee has been working with the Audit 
Committee and the Board to ensure full compliance  
with these changes. Details can be found in the Audit 
Committee Report from page 79. I am pleased to  
report that the Weir Group has complied fully with  
all the principles of the Code, for the 53 weeks to   The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 68
Directors’ Report: 
Corporate Governance Report
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly the Combined Code) is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards  
of good practice in relation to issues such as Board composition and effectiveness, the role of Board committees, risk management, 
remuneration and relations with shareholders. Paper and downloadable versions can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council  
via its website at www.frc.org.uk. 
As a listed company, we must detail how we have complied with the Code and provide an explanation of instances where we have not.  
This report, in addition to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how the Company has applied the main 
principles of the Code. For the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, except in the instance of one part of a provision detailed below, the Board 
considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). 
The Code Provision E.1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders  
to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. During 2013,  
Lord Robertson undertook engagement with various stakeholders but he did not attend meetings with a range of major shareholders. It is 
considered that the Company has a robust Investor Relations department which oversees such meetings and that there are sufficient 
processes in place for the issues and concerns of major shareholders to be communicated to all members of the Board that it is not necessary 
for the Senior Independent Director to attend these meetings. He is of course willing to attend such meetings if the need arises. The Board do 
not feel that this in any way impedes its good corporate governance and believe that the current practice is in compliance with the main and 
supporting principles under section E regarding dialogue with shareholders. Further details of the Company’s relations with its shareholders 
can be found on page 76.
Leadership
The Board of Directors
Table of the Board of Directors
Name Designation Date of appointment Date of most recent re-election
Charles Berry Chairman 1 March 2013 1 May 2013
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 1 May 2013
Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 1 May 2013
Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 1 May 2013
Mary Jo Jacobi Non-Executive Director 1 January 2014 –
Rick Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 1 May 2013
John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 1 May 2013
Lord Robertson Non-Executive Director 1 February 2004 1 May 2013
Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 1 May 2013
The names of the current Directors of the Company can be found in the table above. Biographical information on the current Directors, 
including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found on pages 64 and 65. Their relevant skills and experiences  
are further detailed in the Board composition section below.
Charles Berry joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013. He was appointed Deputy Chairman at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) on 1 May 2013 and became Chairman on 1 January 2014. He replaces Lord Smith who resigned as Chairman and  
a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2013. Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014.
The role and responsibilities of the Board
The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders. The Board provides 
leadership of the Company and sets the Group’s strategic aims. It ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed 
strategic priorities and provides guidance to senior management. In determining the long term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board 
is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders. The Board 
reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business objectives. At all times 
it works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management. The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision  
of the Group’s purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board composition
During the period the Board has comprised two Executive Directors and the Chairman, and the number of Non-Executive Directors increased 
from five to six following the appointment of Charles Berry on 1 March 2013. Since 1 January 2014, when Charles Berry was appointed Chairman 
to replace Lord Smith following his resignation, and Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, the number of Non-Executive 
Directors has remained at six. There is a Company Secretary to the Board. More information on their respective positions and the division of their 
responsibilities is outlined below.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69
Chairman and Chief Executive
During 2013, the Board was chaired by Lord Smith of Kelvin. He stepped down from this role at the end of the year and was replaced by 
Charles Berry with effect from 1 January 2014. The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring conditions that allow for  
the effectiveness of individual Directors and the Board as a whole. Charles Berry has continued the approach of openness and accountability  
set by Lord Smith and encourages debate within the boardroom. His leadership demonstrates the values and behaviours at the core of  
the Weir Group. 
The Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Board’s meetings and ensures 
that there is sufficient time available for the discussion of all items whilst giving the appropriate weighting of time to their relative importance.
Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company. He provides leadership to the Group 
to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board. The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the Group 
Executive and various management committees, known as ‘Excellence Committees’.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors help the Executive Directors by contributing independent challenge and rigour to the Board’s deliberations  
and assisting in the development of the Company’s strategy. In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive 
Directors against agreed goals and objectives. Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and ensuring  
the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes. In order to carry out these functions appropriately the 
Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits. Senior managers are also regularly invited  
to Board meetings to make business presentations to the Board.
Senior Independent Director
Lord Robertson is the Senior Independent Director of the Company. The Board considers Lord Robertson to be independent in character  
and judgement notwithstanding the length of time that he has served on the Board. The Senior Independent Director works alongside the 
Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary. He is also available to shareholders if direct contact 
with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which such contact  
is inappropriate. As Senior Independent Director he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Company Secretary
Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary in May 2012. He is secretary to the Board of Directors and to all of the Board 
Committees. He is Group General Counsel and a member of the Group Executive and his biography is set out on page 66.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on any changes in legislation, governance codes or regulatory requirements. He reports to  
the Chairman on corporate governance matters and oversees, in parallel with the Chairman, the governance procedures of the Board.  
The Company Secretary has a responsibility to ensure that these Board procedures are adhered to and periodically reviews them with  
regards to best practice.
Board meetings
The Board’s scheduled meetings are held in person or by telepresence video-conferencing. During 2013, there were nine scheduled meetings 
held. No additional meetings were required. In September 2013, the Board meeting was held in Todmorden, England. This was part of a 
knowledge gathering trip to view both the facilities of Weir Minerals Europe at Todmorden and Weir Valves & Controls UK in Elland. More 
information on this can be found on page 74. In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the 
year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary. The Board also met at the Group conference in Perthshire, Scotland, in April 2013.
The table below details the attendance at board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014.
Name Attendance
Charles Berry
1
7 of 7
Keith Cochrane 9 of 9
Alan Ferguson 9 of 9
Melanie Gee 9 of 9
Rick Menell 8 of 9
John Mogford 9 of 9
Lord Robertson 9 of 9
Lord Smith of Kelvin 9 of 9
Jon Stanton 9 of 9
 
Notes
1.  Charles Berry was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013. 
2.  There were no Board meetings held between the date of Mary Jo Jacobi’s appointment to the Board on 1 January 2014 and 3 January 2014.   The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 70
Directors’ Report: 
Corporate Governance Report
During the year the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling  
12 month agenda for Board and committee meetings. At each meeting the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and other 
members of the Group Executive including information on safety, strategy, human resources, finance and legal. The Board also receives 
periodic updates from the committee Chairmen, who in particular report to the Board on committee meetings. Other standing items  
include reviewing the risk register and internal controls, strategy and succession planning. 
The Board’s time during 2013 can be grouped in to six key areas as outlined below. A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters. 
The Board receives presentations by members of the Weir Group senior management team and external advisors as required.
The annual timetable is discussed in May of the preceding year and circulated as soon as it is finalised which ensures that the Chairman  
can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period. The system  
for establishing agenda items means both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the  
most appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge  
their duties effectively.
Board
Group Exec
2011
Board
Group Exec
2013
Board
Group Exec
2012
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2011-2013
Strategy
Setting strategy 
targets.
Reviewing 
potential 
acquisitions.
Products and 
technology.
Risk
Risk Appetite 
Statement.
Group’s risk and 
internal control 
framework.
Crisis 
management.
Cyber security.
Governance
Legal updates and 
new disclosure 
requirements.
Internal Board 
review.
Succession 
planning.
Finance
Oversight of the 
preparation and 
management of 
the financial 
statements.
Dividend policy.
Pensions.
Stakeholder 
engagement 
AGM and other 
shareholder 
feedback.
Investor calls, 
meetings and 
roadshows.
Oversight of 
remuneration 
consultation 
process.
Employee surveys.
Safety 
EHS Standards 
and Management 
System.
EHS Audit  
System.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and 
decision of the Board alone. Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management. Decisions specifically 
reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document Matters Reserved to the Board, and include:
• Annual and Interim Report and Financial Statements;
• dividend policy;
• Board appointments;
• Group strategy and the annual operating budget;
• changes relating to the Group’s capital structure;
• changes to the Group’s management and control structure;
• major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals;
• treasury policies;
• risk management strategy;
• Group corporate governance policy; and
• environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
The matters reserved for the Board are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate and adhered to.
Board committees
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
General Administration 
Committee
Group Executive Committee
Risk 
Committee
Board and committee structure
Board 
committees
Engineering 
Excellence 
Committee
Finance 
Excellence 
Committee
Manufacturing 
Excellence 
Committee
EHS  
Excellence 
Committee
IT Excellence 
Committee
Purchasing 
Excellence 
Committee
Planning 
Excellence 
Committee
HR Excellence 
Committee
Value Chain 
Excellence 
Committee
Chief Executive
Board of Directors
Management 
committees
The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities. The principal committees are the 
Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The responsibilities of these Board committees are set out  
in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Company’s website. The roles and responsibilities of the 
committees along with the activities undertaken during the period are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 77 to 112.  
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings, however, other Directors, professional advisors and members of the senior 
management team are able to attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 72
Directors’ Report: 
Corporate Governance Report
General Administration Committee
The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least one  
of whom must be an Executive Director. The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required. The principal duties  
of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue  
and allotment of shares under Group share plans. It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Company’s share capital, 
including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The Committee has written Terms of 
Reference which are periodically reviewed to ensure their continuing appropriateness. These were last updated and approved by the Board  
in January 2013. Minutes of meetings of the General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors.
Group Executive
In 2013 the Group Executive comprised the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three 
Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Operations Support and Development and the Director of Human Resources. In January 2014, 
Andrew Neilson joined the Group Executive as Director of Strategy and Corporate Affairs. Biographical details of the members of the Group 
Executive can be found on page 66. The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, the Group Executive met 12 times. The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the 
Group’s businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.  
The Group Executive’s role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance  
to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of 
business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective 
inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning. It also approves major items of capital 
expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees
In addition to the committees above, there exist several management committees, known as Excellence Committees. These have been 
created to deal with specific areas and under their clearly defined remits they work across the Group promoting best practice and information 
sharing. In 2013, two new Excellence Committees were established: the Planning Excellence Committee and the Value Chain Excellence 
Committee. The Planning Excellence Committee is focussed on updating all aspects of planning across the value chain, including Sales and 
Operations Planning and Production Planning. The updated and fully integrated planning model is aimed at further improving our on-time 
delivery to customers and reducing the level of inventory held across the Group. The Planning Excellence Committee reports, along with  
the Purchasing and Manufacturing Excellence Committees, into the Value Chain Excellence Committee.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive are able to delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the 
areas of expertise contained within them. The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required. 
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying terms of reference, the matters reserved for the Board, and delegated 
authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making. This structure provides 
the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down 
reporting lines.
Effectiveness
Board skills and attributes
Skills and experience
Independence Executive
Banking & 
finance Governance International Leadership Mining Oil & gas Power
Charles Berry
1
X X X X X X
Keith Cochrane X X X X
Alan Ferguson X X X X
Melanie Gee X X X X
Mary Jo Jacobi X X X X X X
Rick Menell X X X X
John Mogford X X X
Lord Robertson X X X X
Lord Smith X X X X X
Jon Stanton X X X
Note 
1.  Charles Berry was considered independent during 2013 and on his appointment as Chairman.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting  
the needs of the business. More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors. All the Non-Executive Directors are considered 
by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. This includes Lord Robertson who despite having served on the Board for a period 
of more than nine years is considered independent primarily due to his long-standing history of distinguished public service at the very highest 
levels. He brings a wealth of experience to the Board’s deliberations and is considered to be free from any business or other relationship that 
could materially interfere with his independent judgement.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73
This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can 
dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees. The positions of 
Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately. Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform  
their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers 
and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary. The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors 
are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
Appointment and tenure
Name
Length of tenure at 3 January 2014 Date of next election  
or re-election 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years
Charles Berry 1 May 2014
Keith Cochrane 1 May 2014
Alan Ferguson 1 May 2014
Melanie Gee 1 May 2014
Mary Jo Jacobi 1 May 2014
Rick Menell 1 May 2014
John Mogford 1 May 2014
Lord Robertson 1 May 2014
Jon Stanton 1 May 2014
The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one year’s notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors’ appointments can be terminated  
at any time with six months’ notice. The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available  
for inspection at the Company’s registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company. Further details can also be found  
in the Remuneration Report.
Mary Jo Jacobi will resign and offer herself for election at the Company’s AGM on 1 May 2014. All other Directors on the Board at 3 January 
2014 will seek re-election at the Company’s AGM in compliance with the Code. 
Induction and ongoing training
When a new Director joins the Company he or she is provided with information on the Group’s structure, operations, policies and other relevant 
documentation. New Directors are able to attend the Group’s induction programme which provides an insight into the Group’s key processes 
and controls. In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Group’s operational sites, which includes presentations from key 
senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations. Directors are informed of relevant material changes to 
laws and regulations affecting the Group’s business and their duties as Directors. The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance 
matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required. During 2013, a Non-Executive Director also gave a presentation at each of the 
three regional conferences for senior managers held during the year.
Additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
In advance of becoming Chairman in January 2014, Charles Berry undertook a detailed induction to the Company, its operations and its 
employees. Between June and December 2013, he visited 19 operational sites in America, Australia, India, The Netherlands, South Africa,  
the United Arab Emirates, the UK and the US. He held individual meetings with each head of department at the Weir Group Head Office  
in Glasgow and met with all members of the Group Executive. He has also met with all members of the Board on a one-to-one basis.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 74
Directors’ Report: 
Corporate Governance Report
Directors and their other interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest  
that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company. The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, 
consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict. Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board,  
via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an existing authorisation. Upon 
receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding 
whether to approve the perceived conflict. At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no new conflicts have arisen.  
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose  
limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. The Director in question will then be notified of the outcome.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options  
to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Board evaluation
Following the internal review undertaken in 2012 the Board decided to consider allotting additional time to certain areas to improve its 
effectiveness further. As a result, additional focus was given to reviewing talent development and related trends across the Company with a 
detailed review of senior succession coverage and a presentation made to the Nomination Committee by the Director of Human Resources on 
senior executive succession planning. In addition, there has been increased focus on the areas of risk and strategy, particularly in relation to 
safety which has become a standing agenda item at every Board meeting.
In September 2013, the Weir Group Board visited two 
Weir facilities in West Yorkshire, England.
In September 2013, the Weir Group Board visited the facilities  
of Weir Valves & Controls UK Ltd in Elland, West Yorkshire, UK.  
They learned about the production systems in place and had  
a chance to inspect the new Rapid Response manufacturing cell, 
which has been a recent key investment in order to aid customers 
with requirements for short lead time aftermarket requirements  
and timely support for key valve applications. The Board met  
with operatives and management from the plant and gained  
an insight into the advances made in the factory to keep pace  
with the increasing levels of output that the plant is delivering.
The following day, the Board visited the Todmorden site of  
Weir Minerals Europe Limited. During the morning session,  
the Directors were given an overview of the recent successes 
achieved by the Europe, North Africa and Russia regions of the 
Minerals Division, before being given a tour of the foundry. The 
Todmorden foundry carries an exceptional global reputation  
and a significant investment was committed in 2012 to expand the 
manufacturing capacity of the site to meet global demand with the 
construction of a new fast loop extension, which was completed 
and formally opened in July 2013. Following the tour, guest 
speaker Magnus Ericsson, from IntierraRMG, presented an analyst 
view of the mining sector to 2020, and Dean Jenkins, Divisional 
Managing Director, outlined the strategic plan of the Minerals 
Division to 2018. The Board then held its meeting at Todmorden  
in the afternoon.
BOARD SITE VISIT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 75
Functional & front line controls
Monitoring & oversight controls
Assurance activities
Ethical & cultural environment
Risks
The Board evaluation was again conducted in-house in 2013. This was facilitated through the completion of questionnaires which focussed  
on areas such as the role and composition of the Board, the content and process of meetings and the roles of the committees. In addition,  
the Chairman conducted individual discussions with each Non-Executive Director. The Chairman conducted the process, assisted by the 
Company Secretary. As is customary, Lord Robertson as Senior Independent Director oversaw the review of the Chairman.
The overall responses from the 2013 evaluation again generally reflected a very high level of satisfaction with the current working of the Board 
and its committees. The Board considered the 2013 evaluation at both its December 2013 and January 2014 meetings. In particular, the Board 
has agreed that further consideration will be giving to further improving the effective operation of the Board and of the Nomination and Audit 
Committees in particular. In addition, measures will be implemented to ensure that all Board members are kept fully and directly informed of 
external developments in relation to the Company on a more systematic and ongoing basis. 
In line with the Code, the Board intends to have external facilitation of its next Board evaluation in 2014.
Accountability
The Audit Committee and auditors
Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages  
79 to 84. Information on the Company’s external auditors is also contained within this section.
Internal control and risk management
In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors (formally known as the Turnbull Guidance) the Group has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework. This process has been in place throughout 
2013. More information can be found on risk management on pages 24 to 30.
Our internal control framework has four key layers:
Figure 1: Internal Control Framework
 – Functional and front line controls
This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies;  
a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting; regular performance appraisal and training for 
employees; restricted access to financial systems and data; delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions; 
protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm; IT and data security controls; business continuity planning; and 
assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
 – Monitoring and oversight controls
There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated. There are monitoring controls  
at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address 
underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum. The scorecard assesses 
compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis. 
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis allowing appropriate action to be taken.
 – Assurance activities
We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection 
from risk and are operating as we would expect. Sources of assurance include: External Audit, Internal Audit, EHS audits, Intellectual Property 
audits, Engineering audits, Procurement audits, IT audits, and Production System Lean audits. The legal function is also planning to introduce 
a legal audit programme in 2014. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 76
Directors’ Report: 
Corporate Governance Report
The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need. Issues and 
recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from  
the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
 – Ethical and cultural environment
We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner. This is supported by the Weir values which are the core 
behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives. The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our culture, providing a high 
benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted. Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.  
The Ethics section detailed in the Sustainability Review on page 61 provides more details on the Group’s activities to promote ethical 
behaviour.
The Group’s internal control procedures described above and on page 82 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.  
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have  
been adopted.
Remuneration
Details of the Company’s Remuneration Committee, including its roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 85 to 112. The Remuneration Report also details the Company’s remuneration policy and the remuneration received by 
Directors in 2013.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Company’s shareholders. The Company’s 
investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors. Through this 
programme the Company has directly engaged with 528 investors in 2013 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing. Other areas 
where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the financial community and roadshows 
and Investor Relations events held by the Company, of which there were 20 during the year held in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany,  
The Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, and the US. 
The Company holds an annual capital markets day, which this year was held in London in June. This event allows shareholders to meet the 
broader management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one business or one aspect of the business. The capital markets  
day this year focussed on progress in our Power & Industrial division and initiatives relating to procurement and supplier development.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have 
met with analysts or institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the 
views of these stakeholders. Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major 
shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder. 
Our brokers and public relations advisors undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board. The Company Secretary  
is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Company’s shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Company’s shareholders are the Weir Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements  
and the Interim Report. Both are available on the Company’s website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect  
to receive it. Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website  
is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders. As well as the Interim and Annual Report, the website contains information on  
the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the financial calendar and 
other important shareholder information. The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can also be found 
on the website.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views 
and answer their questions about the Group and its business. The 2014 AGM is to be held on Thursday 1 May 2014 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 
Glasgow. The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of 
those Committees. It is the Company’s practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM. Details on proxy voting 
will be contained in the proxy form and the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders and the Chairman will also advise shareholders at the 
meeting. Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are also included in the Notice of Meeting. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 77
Current members Name Attendance
Charles Berry (Chairman)
1
Keith Cochrane 5 of 5
Keith Cochrane Rick Menell 4 of 5
Rick Menell Lord Robertson 5 of 5
John Mogford
2
Lord Smith
3
5 of 5
Lord Robertson 
Notes
1.  Charles Berry was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2014. There were no meetings held from the date of his appointment to 3 January 2014.
2.  John Mogford was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014. 
3.  Lord Smith retired from the Committee and as Chairman of the Committee on 31 December 2013.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and in 2013 two of the Non-Executive Directors. John Mogford 
joined the Committee at the start of 2014. The Committee was chaired by Lord Smith until 31 December 2013. Charles Berry has 
succeeded him as Chairman of the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
There were five scheduled meetings held during the year. Details of the attendance of the members of the Committee for the 53 weeks  
to 3 January 2014 are contained in the table above.
The Chairman does not chair the meeting when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position. Similarly, should a matter  
under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members they would excuse themselves from the meeting. During the year,  
there were several agenda items on the replacement of Lord Smith as Chairman. Lord Smith was not party to these discussions, which 
were led by Lord Robertson in his absence.
Committee’s role
The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing  
senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate 
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board. The Terms of Reference of the  
Committee are available on the Company’s website.
The Committee was evaluated as part of the annual Board evaluation process and its performance was found to be satisfactory.
Independence
The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors and in particular Lord Robertson 
who, as of February 2014, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for a period of ten years. In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code a rigorous review was undertaken which examined his continued contribution to the Board and its Committees and his 
external interests and roles. It was concluded that the Board still considers all of its Non-Executive Directors, including Lord Robertson,  
to be independent in character and judgement. Lord Robertson’s experience and objectivity was considered to still bring value to the 
Board and his fellow Directors.
THE NOMINA TION 
COMMITTEE 
Charles Berry
Nomination Committee Chairman The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 78
Directors’ Report: 
Nomination Committee Report
Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links 
with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining the independence of a 
Non-Executive Director. The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors continue to be independent in character and 
judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors’ judgement.
Board appointments
The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves  
the use of external executive recruitment agencies. This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required  
for the particular appointment together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors. The existing balance  
of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
A significant amount of the Committee’s time in 2013 was spent recruiting a successor to Lord Smith as Chairman and on the recruitment  
of an additional Non-Executive Director. External search consultancies were used in both instances. The Company engaged The Inzito 
Partnership for the appointment of Charles Berry and Odgers Berndtson in the appointment of Mary Jo Jacobi. Neither company has any 
other connection with the Weir Group.
Succession planning
The Committee has given increased focus to the talent pool for potential candidates and succession planning within the Group. During  
the year, the Director of Human Resources presented a review of senior executive succession planning, containing details of ongoing  
or proposed talent development, the methods for identifying and cultivating potential internal candidates, and the balance of internal and 
external recruiting for the most senior positions. The Committee also spends time on succession planning for the various Board level roles.
Boardroom diversity
The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee which are available on the Company’s website. Specifically, the Nomination Committee must ‘consider candidates on merit and 
against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender’ in identifying and recommending 
candidates. The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote 
the success of the Company. 
The Board acknowledges the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom. Among other things, a diverse board encompasses 
diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills and personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, 
race and gender.
Having considered the question of diversity during the year, the Board approved a policy with respect to Board diversity at its meeting  
in January 2014. The Nomination Committee will operate under and report against this policy from this date. 
The recent focus on Board diversity has centred on gender and the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation  
on the Board. As of January 2014, two of the nine Board members of the Company are female (22%). The Board will continue to consider  
its policy with respect to Board diversity on future appointments but will not place a higher regard on one form of diversity over any other.  
The appropriate composition of the Board as a whole with regard to the size and activity of the Company will be taken in to account at all times.
Charles Berry
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
26 February 2014 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 79
Introduction 
As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present our first report to shareholders following our adoption of the revised UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), which applies for the first time this year. It is my intention that through this report we will 
demonstrate our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our responsibilities under the Code and how we have discharged them effectively 
during the year.
Key objective
Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Group’s financial reporting including the adequacy of 
disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and oversight of the Group’s systems of internal 
control, framework of identification and management of business risks and related compliance activities. These activities include a detailed 
review of the process and related reporting underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable conclusion in relation to this Annual Report, 
a decision which is reserved for the full Board.
Membership
I chair the Committee and am joined by Melanie Gee, John Mogford and Rick Menell, three of my fellow Board members, all of whom  
are independent Non-Executive Directors. Charles Berry was appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on 1 March 2013 and 
subsequently left the Committee on his appointment to Chairman on 1 January 2014. Both Melanie and John have been members of  
the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report with Rick Menell being appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014. 
Each of the Committee members has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters and has been 
selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities. Summary 
biographies have been presented on pages 64 and 65.
Responsibilities
As a Committee, we are responsible for:
•  reviewing the announcements of the Group’s financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements, 
and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements;
• reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies  
and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements;
• advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements are robust and support the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy;
• overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, independence, fees and audit quality and effectiveness;
• reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources 
and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate; 
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a review 
of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour;
• oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption (AB&C) programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance; and
• reviewing treasury policy including foreign exchange exposure.
The Terms of Reference can be found on the Group’s website, weir.co.uk.
THE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
Alan Ferguson
Audit Committee Chairman The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 80
Directors’ Report: 
Audit Committee Report
Meetings
We met four times during the period. This represents an additional meeting compared to prior years and was the result of a decision made  
by the members of the Committee following review of the annual agenda and the time allocated to each of its responsibilities. In the current 
period, the additional time was mainly used to discuss reports presented by the Divisional Finance Directors on internal control compliance. 
Each Committee meeting takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report on our activities. 
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without  
any executive management present. This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order 
to carry out our roles and duties. We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required. 
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during 
the calendar year. In addition, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Audit Committee attendees
Lord Smith Group Chairman (to 31/12/13) Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Jon Stanton Group Finance Director Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee
Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation
Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation
The Committee members’ attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Current members Name Attendance
Alan Ferguson (Chairman) Charles Berry
2
 2 of 2
Melanie Gee Alan Ferguson 4 of 4
Rick Menell
1
Melanie Gee 4 of 4
John Mogford John Mogford 4 of 4
Notes
1.  Rick Menell joined the Committee on 21 January 2014.  
2. Charles Berry attended all meetings in the period of his appointment to the Committee on 1 March 2013. He resigned from the Committee on 1 January 2014.
Between the end of the calendar year and the date of this report, there were two meetings of the Audit Committee. Following his appointment 
as Chairman, succeeding Lord Smith, Charles Berry attended the meetings by invitation. All other members of the Committee attended both 
those meetings.
Main activities during the period
Over the course of the period, our work was focussed in the following areas:
(i) financial reporting;
(ii) internal control and risk management; 
(iii) internal audit; and
(iv) external audit.
The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we,  
as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
(i) Financial reporting
Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge, where necessary, of the actions and judgements of management in relation 
to the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to:
•  critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein;
•  decisions requiring judgements and estimates with the most significant effect or where there has been discussion with the external auditor;
•  the existence of any adjustments resulting from the audit;
•  the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements; and
• the processes surrounding the compilation of the annual report and financial statements with regard to fair, balanced and understandable. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 81
We received formal reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the  
half year and full year reporting and explored these in detail at our meetings in January, February and August.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this year’s annual report and financial statements and the process that has been 
undergone in the preparation of the document. With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising  
the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following:
•  involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Group Communications,  
Group Finance (including Group Tax) and Company Secretariat;
•  input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Company’s broker and PR agency;
•  use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting;
•  regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies, for example the Financial Reporting Lab;
• regular weekly meetings of the Disclosure Committee, which comprises the key contributors to the document, during which specific 
consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion; and
• use of two cold readers; one of these a member of the Senior Management Group of the Group and the other an external, independent 
proof reader.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board. 
Current period matters
(1) Accounting for the acquisition of Mathena Inc. (“Mathena”)
The specific items we have discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors, EY, in relation to the acquisition of Mathena 
were: (a) the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) exercise to attribute values to separately identifiable intangible assets and related accounting  
for deferred tax; (b) the assessment of acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, specifically Property, Plant & Equipment and 
provisions; and (c) compliance of the disclosures in the financial statements with IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’. 
Management engaged with an independent external advisor to complete the PPA exercise and reported a summary of the underpinning 
assumptions and related results to us during the year. We reviewed that summary and also compared the assumptions used to those for other 
recent acquisitions where appropriate. The final fair values are disclosed in note 13. The accounting for deferred tax has included technical 
input from the Group Head of Tax. We examined the nature and extent of fair value adjustments to other assets and liabilities noting a rigorous 
process had been undertaken and property values were supported by third party valuations. Finally, we challenged management on the 
completeness of the related disclosures and satisfied ourselves that they were complete, accurate, understandable and compliant with IFRS 3.
(2) Exceptional items – reassessment of Mathena contingent consideration
An initial assessment of the contingent consideration payable under the terms of the Sale & Purchase Agreement (SPA) was undertaken  
at the date of acquisition. Based on conditions at that time, a liability was recorded, with an equivalent increase in goodwill, on the assumption 
that the EBITDA targets, relating to 2013 and 2014, would be achieved in full. Subsequent to this initial assessment and due to the continuation 
of the depressed natural gas price, certain customers reduced their gas drilling activity. This impacted the short term forecasts for the business 
such that the reassessment performed by management of the contingent consideration payable has reduced to nil with an exceptional credit 
being recorded in the Income Statement. We have held detailed discussions with management covering the key assumptions underpinning the 
revised assessment and also any potential resultant impact on impairment testing of the goodwill and customer relationships balances. 
The Committee is satisfied on the basis of this work that the credit to the Income Statement is appropriate, as is its presentation as an 
exceptional item on the face of that statement, and that there is no requirement for an impairment loss to be recognised. 
(3) Valuation of inventory 
The shift of North American drilling activity from gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012 impacted customer activity levels such 
that there remains excess capacity in certain pressure pumping equipment sectors within the market. As a result, the Committee has given 
specific consideration to the work undertaken by management in assessing the valuation of our related inventory, including consideration of 
the proportion of gross inventory provided for at the balance sheet date of just over 8%, and concluded it is appropriate given current and 
expected market conditions.
(4) Reassessment of Cash Generating Units (CGUs)
We challenged management on the process undergone to reassess the appropriateness of the CGUs during the year and their allocation of 
recent acquisitions to existing or new CGUs. This included questioning of the evidence identified by management in support of the changes 
made. We agree that the requirements of IAS 36, including those in respect of the management of cash flows, supports the level at which the 
CGUs are identified and reported on and that the level of disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
Recurring agenda items
(1) Impairment testing of intangible assets
At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets, 
the book value of which is £1,615m (2012: £1,454m) at the balance sheet date. The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions 
underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the CGUs, specifically the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic 
assumptions underlying the valuation process. Specific focus was given to long term growth rates, discount rates and any CGUs with lower 
levels of headroom. Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 82
Directors’ Report: 
Audit Committee Report
In the current year, we undertook a detailed review of the results of the testing, and underlying assumptions, of the impairment model, 
including those individual CGUs collectively presented as ‘other’ in note 14, with specific consideration given to the renewables businesses. 
We agree that there is no impairment charge required.
(2) Accounting for pensions 
The detailed disclosure as required under IAS 19 (Revised) is included in note 24. We have examined these disclosures and the prior year 
adjustment required following adoption of the new standard and we are satisfied they are complete and accurate. In reaching this conclusion, 
we have challenged management on the key assumptions used underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external 
advice is taken by them. 
During the current period, we gave specific consideration to the accounting treatment applied following the announcement that agreement 
had been reached between the Company and the trustees of the UK’s Main Plan that it would close to future accrual of benefits from 30 June 
2015 and agreed with the presentation on the face of the Income Statement.
(3) Tax charge and provisioning
The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Group Finance Director every six months which covers the following key areas: (i) 
status of ongoing enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities; (ii) the Group’s effective tax rate for the current year; and (iii) the level of 
provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period. In addition, the Committee takes comfort 
from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year. Based on the work we have 
undertaken in the current year we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements is reasonable. This is supported by  
the reporting we have received from the Group’s external advisor. 
(4) Accounting for provisions
Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are £55m (2012: £70m) at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented  
in note 22. In respect of the current year, we have examined the key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and 
challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them. We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided 
by the Group General Counsel (where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision), the appropriateness of the closing positions.
(ii) Internal control and risk management
During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment. Our work in this area was supported 
by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of audit visits undertaken; the overall assessment of the internal 
control environment; and the incidence of any significant frauds or any fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role  
in internal controls. 
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Group’s compliance related activities from the Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary and Head of Internal Audit. In addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering any investigations  
into known or suspected fraudulent activities is reviewed. 
Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements there have been presentations from the three Divisional Finance Directors (DFDs)  
on the results of the most recent Compliance Scorecards and their divisional priorities for the coming year. 
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months of their 
compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, Anti-Bribery  
& Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal. As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, these cover (but  
are not limited to) management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other financial policies. 
Operating companies are required to gather evidence and undertake sample testing to validate their self-assessment responses. Internal 
Audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment responses during planned visits. Any significant variances are reported to 
local, divisional and Group management. Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans  
to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time. The overall compliance scores (in percent) are tracked over time  
and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed  
and Internal Audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies. 
Our role with regard to risk is to look at the process of formulating the risk matrix and the assurance provided over internal controls and other 
mitigating factors. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the principal risks included in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements remains with the Board. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83
(iii) Internal audit
One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is 
adequately resourced, effective (including an assessment of the independence of the function) and has appropriate standing within the 
Company. As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in the 
Group on a periodic, rotational basis. A risk based approach is taken when planning any one years’ audit plan with factors such as volatility  
of end markets, critical system or senior management changes in the period, results of the last Internal Audit visit and any other assurance 
reviews undertaken and whether the business is a recent acquisition being taken into consideration. In addition, the emergence of any 
common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audit visits or compliance scorecard submissions (see previous section) are taken 
into consideration in formulating the internal audit plan. Finally, Anti-Bribery & Corruption reviews are undertaken, focussing on areas such  
as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and corporate hospitality/gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee each year. Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on audit 
activities, progress against the plan, and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, including 
management responses, to address these areas. No trends or common themes have been identified during the current year that required  
or warranted a change to the internal audit plan for 2014.
Private discussions between myself and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit has progressed to a Finance Director role within the business with effect from the end of January 2014 and  
a replacement, who I interviewed as part of my role in the recruitment process, has been appointed and commenced work at the start  
of February 2014.
(iv) External audit
Auditor effectiveness 
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle. EY present 
their detailed audit plan to us each year identifying their assessment of these key risks. For the current period, the significant risks identified 
were acquisition accounting, the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, liability provisioning, including provisions for legal obligations 
and taxation, and the valuation of inventory due to the inherent management judgement required in all these areas. Our work in each of these 
areas has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by amongst other things a review 
of the reporting from the auditors and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process. During the first 
half of the year, management issued a detailed questionnaire to every Finance Manager/Director and Divisional Finance Director to collect 
feedback on the 2012 audit process. This covered resource and expertise of the audit teams, quality of planning, execution and deliverables  
as well as an assessment of overall performance. Resultant themes and findings were discussed between ourselves, management and EY 
with both management and the auditors reporting to us on the actions being implemented in response. In addition, on a periodic basis, the 
Finance Director meets with the overseas external audit teams. The Committee also noted the Audit Quality Inspection report issued by the 
FRC in May 2013 which was positive in tone and direction for EY.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk, although there are 
of course some areas where improvements can be made, and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good. Based on the input from 
management and discussions we have had with EY and key finance individuals, we also hold this view. This process was repeated in respect 
of the 2013 audit.
 
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback 
from the Committee and the auditor without management being present. Matters typically discussed include the auditor’s assessment of 
business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there  
has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional scepticism. I also meet with the 
lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Independence policy and non-audit services
The Audit Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors. This includes keeping under review the auditor’s 
independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them. In addition, a formal policy exists which 
ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditor’s opinion on the Group’s financial 
statements. All non-audit services require the approval of management and, where the expected cost of the service is in excess of £75,000, 
the approval of the Audit Committee. No changes have been made to either policy in the current year. The auditors confirm their 
independence at least annually.
Fees payable to EY in respect of audit and assurance services for 2013 of £1.9m (2012: £1.7m) were approved by the Committee after a review 
of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by EY that the fees were 
appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by EY over the past year for assurance services amounted to £0.1m, which represented 5% of the total  
fees including audit fees, and were incurred primarily in relation to other assurance services. We are of the view that the level and nature  
of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 84
Directors’ Report: 
Audit Committee Report
Auditor choice, tenure and tendering
The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner, each year. The external auditor  
is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for 
two years, including 2013.
EY, or its predecessor firms, has been the Company’s external auditor since prior to its stock market listing in 1946. As part of our annual 
review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit we conduct an in depth review of their performance as noted above. There were no 
matters arising from the review in the current year, which we felt required the service to be tendered immediately. We have considered the 
audit tendering provisions outlined in the Code, which we are supportive of. We have also reviewed the recent guidance provided by the 
European Commission and the Competition Commission. The European transitional provisions relating to Mandatory Firm Rotation are likely 
to require rotation of the external auditor of the Group within 6 years from July 2014, effectively the 2020 year end, which is also when it is  
likely that the Competition Commission would mandate a tender process. However after due consideration we expect to tender the audit,  
at the latest, coincident to the next rotation of the incumbent lead audit partner, which would be for the 2017 year end. 
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, in particular 
noting the rotation of lead audit partner in the prior year, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective 
and recommended to the Board that EY be re-appointed as the Company’s external auditors for 2014. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Group’s choice of external auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Company’s auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
 
Alan Ferguson
On behalf of the Audit Committee
26 February 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Continued Dear Shareholder
This Remuneration Report in respect of 2013 has been prepared in compliance with the new UK reporting requirements. In line with these 
regulations, the Report now comprises three sections with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
following this annual statement. Shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in a binding vote and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration in an advisory vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 1 May 2014. 
In my 2012 letter I indicated that senior management and the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) intended to take the opportunity  
in 2013 to conduct a detailed review of executive and senior management remuneration, in light of both changing legislation and the 
requirement for a new Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) in 2014. 
As a leading global engineering solutions provider, our business is complex and our customers are exposed to a number of end markets. 
Our Group strategy targets delivery of sustainable profitable growth which is faster than our end markets and this is supported by our key pillars 
of Value Chain Excellence, Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability. We have a clear understanding of our core values that underpin 
Group strategy and it was with these in mind that we approached our detailed review of the overall shape of our executive remuneration.
In addition to our extensive internal work, including a full market review with our consultants, we examined emerging best practice and 
feedback from our shareholders, including from our 2013 AGM. We undertook a specific consultation on these proposals with our major 
shareholders and their representative bodies towards the end of the year. 
Our proposals represent a simplification of existing arrangements and continue to comprise three elements: base salary, plus benefits  
in kind; an annual bonus scheme, with cash and shares; and a long term incentive plan, with shares. Two of the three elements are 
performance related.
Overview of our revised remuneration plan
The Committee adopted a number of key principles against which to evaluate revised proposals, including the following:
• our remuneration structure should support the Group’s strategy and business objectives, drive long term and sustainable value creation, 
and identify the interests of executives with those of our shareholders;
• overall value should remain broadly constant;
• the plan should provide a flexible framework to extend performance related remuneration further down the organisation and cascade  
to the top 300 executives in the Company; and 
•  the plan should be acceptable to our shareholders.
The Committee is mindful of the difficult economic conditions in much of the global economy and the broad range of views on 
remuneration. In finalising our proposals, the Committee had regard to both the external environment and the global and complex  
nature of the business.
The revised remuneration proposals reinforce Weir’s overarching strategy of delivering sustainable growth ahead of our markets and 
becoming our customers’ partner of choice. Specific elements also support our key pillars and our key output measures of delivering  
top quartile margins and increased return on capital.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION
REPORT
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 86
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
The revised remuneration proposals incorporate a number of significant changes which I have summarised below, with full details in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy:
• removal of both the voluntary deferral option on annual bonus and matching awards under the existing LTIP , providing simplification;
•  the addition of a return on capital employed (ROCE) measure to our LTIP targets, alongside total shareholder return (TSR) and earnings  
per share (EPS) in equal proportions, to enhance the alignment of our LTIP with business strategy. ROCE is a key internal measure for  
the Group;
•  the introduction of a formalised and increased shareholding requirement for Executive Directors and the other members of the Group Executive; 
•  Executive Directors to hold vested shares for an additional period of two years, to strengthen alignment of senior management and 
shareholder interests;
•  the overall plan to be cascaded down to the top 300 executives with flexibility below Executive Director level to respond to specific market 
requirements, providing global consistency with local flexibility; and
•  adoption of changes to the terms and conditions of the proposed new LTIP , to reflect emerging best practice.
The Committee reviewed all other key elements of the current arrangements and agreed to retain these. The most important included the three 
year performance period for the LTIP . The Committee concluded that, given our exposure to a number of different end markets (some of which 
have long cycles) and the importance of both the original equipment and aftermarkets to our business, a three year performance period for the 
LTIP represented an appropriate long term time frame.
The overall impact of the simplification of the new proposals is to increase the potential level of award under the LTIP to compensate for the 
removal of the voluntary deferral option on annual bonus and matching awards under the existing LTIP .
Towards the end of the year, the Committee considered the appropriate targets for both the 2014 annual bonus scheme and our proposed  
new LTIP , including the targets for the new ROCE measure. While in the medium term the Group will benefit from structural growth trends, 
mixed end market conditions are expected to impact performance in 2014. Further details of the performance targets are included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The Committee was concerned to ensure that the targets not only support the Group’s overarching strategy 
and high achievement expectations, but are both challenging and realistically achievable. The Committee is comfortable that the right balance 
has been struck for each of the targets.
Total compensation opportunity levels for our Chief Executive and Finance Director
Under our current arrangements, target total compensation for both our Chief Executive and Finance Director are well below market 
competitive levels.
The Committee spent some time analysing how this has emerged. In part it is a result of the Company making no specific pension provision  
for our Chief Executive and Finance Director. We are only one of two companies in the FTSE 51 to 100 where such provision is not made.  
This is normally taken as a non-bonusable ‘cash in lieu of pension’ payment of between 25% and 30% of salary per annum. In the current 
environment the Committee took the view that it was not appropriate to propose the introduction of such a cash payment. The proposed 
increased LTIP goes some way to address this gap. Unlike a cash payment, this is performance linked and the 2014 award will not vest for 
three years.
As part of the discussion around pension provision, the Committee also reviewed the Company’s plans for auto-enrolment (applicable to all UK 
employees) below Board level which will come into full effect during 2014. The Committee decided that it would be appropriate to extend the 
same terms to the Executive Directors. Details are summarised in the policy table. 
Our Finance Director, Jon Stanton, was appointed to his role in 2010 and it was his first public company appointment. As highlighted in 
previous reports, as his experience and contribution has increased, the Committee has increased his compensation towards market rates.  
The Committee believes that it is now appropriate, in addition to the increased LTIP award referred to above, to increase his maximum bonus 
percentage from 100% to 125% of salary, in line with peers.
The Committee also considered possible base pay increases for the Executive Directors for 2014 in line with our proposed new policy (broadly 
in line with salary increases applied to UK employees). We were comfortable that the relative performance of the business, the performance of 
the two individuals, and market data supported such an increase. However, the Committee concluded that there should be no increase in base 
pay for 2014 for the Chief Executive and Finance Director. This takes account of shareholder feedback following our consultation on the terms 
of our new remuneration proposals and recognises the increase in total compensation levels being proposed for both individuals, which has 
the full support of the Committee.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87
2013 performance and remuneration outcomes
During 2013 our key end markets in minerals and oil and gas continued to be challenging. The senior team provided strong leadership 
throughout, delivering significant cost and efficiency savings whilst also driving continued focus on talent management in line with strategy. 
Whilst the relative performance of the business was strong, the minimum profit target for payment of the profit related element of the annual 
bonus for 2013 was not achieved as we saw a more gradual recovery in key end markets than had been anticipated when the targets were  
set. The Committee reviewed the personal performance criteria for each of the Executive Directors, representing 20% of bonus entitlement. 
For 2013, half of the personal element for Executive Directors was linked to a stretching Group working capital target. Whilst good progress 
has been made in this area, the Group target was not achieved. All other personal objectives were achieved in full and the Executive Directors 
were awarded a bonus of 10 per cent of maximum bonus entitlement.
Our 2011 LTIP performance shares and matching shares will vest in March 2014, based on TSR and EPS performance conditions over the 
three year period to 31 December 2013. The overall level of vesting is 42.8 per cent of the awards. The Group achieved EPS growth during  
this period of slightly more than 13 per cent per annum, which will lead to vesting of 85.5 per cent of this element. TSR growth was below 
median performance relative to peers, resulting in no vesting of this element.
2013 has been a busy year for the Committee. We are grateful for the extensive work undertaken by the Company and our remuneration 
advisers and for the support we have received from our major shareholders and their representative bodies. We are confident that the revised 
remuneration proposals, together with our policy statement and the decisions taken in respect of 2014 salaries, bonus and LTIP targets 
increase the alignment of compensation for our senior executives with shareholders’ interests, provide a sound base for the medium term  
and, importantly, also represent an overall fair outcome.
 
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 88
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Directors’ future policy table
The policy described in this section will apply from the date of the 2014 AGM, subject to a binding shareholder vote at that meeting,  
after which the policy section will be displayed in the Remuneration Committee section on the Company’s website. 
The remuneration policy has been determined through an extensive strategic remuneration review in 2013. This has involved significant 
consultation internally and externally with shareholders and shareholder bodies. The Remuneration Committee considers the remuneration 
policy for senior executives periodically to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to  
the market. In line with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013  
(the ‘Regulations’), there is no current intention to revise the policy more frequently than every three years. 
The Group’s overarching remuneration policy is designed to ensure that remuneration supports the Group’s strategy and business objectives. 
The policy and practice have been developed to support the creation of value for shareholders, drive appropriate behaviours and incentivise 
outperformance, while being clearly linked to both individual and corporate performance. The Committee is mindful of a broad range of 
stakeholders in setting this policy and has considered best practice guidelines from shareholders and representative bodies. As part of this 
process, the Committee has adopted a set of principles which are used as the basis against which remuneration arrangements have been 
established.
The Group’s remuneration principles are that reward should enable the Group to: 
• attract, motivate and retain senior executives with the necessary abilities to manage and develop the Group’s activities successfully for the 
benefit of shareholders;
• clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long term interests of the Group and its shareholders;
• drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the culture of the Group and focus senior executives on the critical business objectives  
by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria; and 
• provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Future policy table
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Base salary
The provision of a competitive 
base salary as part of an overall 
compensation package enables 
the Group to attract and retain 
talented leaders.
Reviewed annually with 
effect from 1 April. Set by 
reference to market practice 
for a similar role in a peer 
group of global companies of 
a similar size and complexity; 
personal performance; the 
wider employee context; and 
economic and labour market 
conditions.
It is expected that salary 
increases for Executive 
Directors will be made 
broadly in line with salary 
increases applied to UK 
employees or the relevant 
jurisdiction if an Executive 
Director is based outside the 
UK. Higher increases may 
apply if there is a change 
in role or responsibility, 
the individual is relatively 
new in role, or there is 
significant variance to the 
market. Any significant 
salary increases will be 
appropriately explained. The 
maximum salary level for 
each Executive Director is set 
by reference to a peer group 
of FTSE 51-100 companies 
and appropriate overseas 
comparators of similar 
size and complexity. The 
Remuneration Committee 
has the discretion to change 
the peer group during the life 
of this policy.
—
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Benefits and pension
To provide a market aligned 
benefits package.
Benefits include, but are not 
limited to: Group health care; 
car allowance; travel allowance; 
and death in service insurance. 
The Company may also meet 
certain mobility costs and pay 
additional tax arising due to an 
international assignment, and 
may also provide for long term 
disability benefits. Additional 
benefits may be provided where 
required by legislation or to 
align the package with market 
practice where these are not 
significant in value. Directors 
and Officers Liability insurance 
will also be provided.
The Group makes no specific 
provision for Executive Directors’ 
pensions. However, the Board 
has considered the implications 
of the new UK government 
legislation on auto-enrolment for 
UK employees and has adopted 
a policy for all UK employees  
to be implemented when the 
auto-enrolment regulations 
come into force. 
The value of relevant benefits 
will be determined by the 
cost of the provision of 
insured products. As the 
cost of providing such 
insurance benefits varies 
according to premium rates 
and the cost of other benefits 
is dependent on market rates 
and other factors, there is no 
formal maximum monetary 
value. Car allowance will 
normally be no greater than 
£20,000 per annum.
As part of the Company’s 
provision in respect of auto-
enrolment, at senior levels 
individuals will be eligible 
for a contribution into the 
pension plan or a cash 
allowance of 12% of salary 
per annum.
The auto-enrolment provision for 
Executive Directors is expected  
to commence in August 2014. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 90
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Annual bonus (see also notes 1 and 3)
To reward the achievement of 
stretching Group performance for 
the current year, supporting our 
strategy of delivering sustainable 
growth in our key markets.
The annual bonus (the Executive 
Bonus Scheme) is based on 
in-year performance against 
financial, personal and strategic 
goals. 
The annual bonus plan has two 
parts – a cash element (70%) 
and an element converted 
into shares where there is a 
restriction on sale for three years 
(30%). The size of both elements 
is determined by performance  
in the year.
Until the end of 2013, an 
additional 25% of bonus could 
have been voluntarily deferred 
into shares for the Chief 
Executive and 20% for the 
Finance Director.
Targets are set at the beginning 
of the performance year which 
runs from the start to the end  
of each financial period.
Any changes to original targets, 
measures or payout levels 
will be fully explained in the 
relevant Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
On change of control, the bonus 
payment will be pro-rated 
for time and an assessment 
of performance over the 
appropriate period, with the 
Committee having discretion  
to make adjustments to this 
figure if appropriate.
150% of salary for Chief 
Executive (2013: 150%).
125% of salary for other 
Executive Directors (2013: 
Finance Director 100%).
The achievement of stretch 
targets results in maximum 
bonus pay out. 20% of bonus 
will pay out for performance 
at threshold, with payment 
on a straight line basis 
between threshold and 
stretch.
The measures, as well as the 
weightings within these measures, 
will depend on the strategic focus 
of the Company in any given year.
The financial element of the 
annual bonus is based on 
the achievement of a Group 
Normalised Profits before Tax  
and Amortisation (NPBTA)  
target measured over the  
financial period. 
No more than 20% of the annual 
bonus will be based on personal 
performance targets. For 2014, 
this weighting is 20%.
Payouts under the NPBTA 
element may be reduced to the 
extent that Group working capital 
targets are not achieved.
The Committee has discretion 
in exceptional circumstances to 
alter the measures and/or targets 
during the performance period if 
it believes the original measures 
and/or targets are no longer 
appropriate.
The Committee also has 
discretion in exceptional 
circumstances to alter the payout 
levels of an award at the end 
of the performance period if it 
believes this will better reflect  
the underlying performance  
of the Company but in no 
circumstances will exceed the 
maximum bonus potential. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Bonus shares subject to restriction on sale
Bonus converted into shares 
with restriction on sale (Bonus 
shares), which supplements the 
long term elements of pay and 
further aligns executives to the 
interests of shareholders.
30% of the annual bonus paid in 
respect of the performance year 
is converted into shares with a 
restriction on sale.
Bonus shares are subject to 
malus and clawback which 
enables the Company not to 
release any bonus shares before 
the end of the restriction period, 
or to clawback the relevant 
value after the restriction period 
has ended for a period of up 
to three years. Malus and 
clawback may be applied in 
certain circumstances where 
there is found to be a material 
misstatement in the audited 
accounts of the Group or a 
Group company accounts, 
where the executive’s action 
or conduct amounts to gross 
misconduct, or where there 
is a significant detrimental 
reputational impact on the 
Company for which the 
executive is responsible.
Bonus shares subject to a 
restriction on sale may vest on  
a change of control and on 
certain other corporate events  
in accordance with the rules  
of the 2014 LTIP.
Until the end of 2013, shares 
have been deferred under the 
rules of the Company’s existing 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
approved by shareholders in 
2004 (the ‘Company’s LTIP’) 
and from 2014, shares would 
be subject to a restriction on 
sale under the rules of the 
Company’s proposed new LTIP 
subject to shareholder approval 
of the plan at the 2014 AGM  
(the ‘2014 LTIP’).
The ability to voluntarily defer 
additional shares which has 
been available under the 
Company’s LTIP, is not included 
in the 2014 LTIP. 
30% of any bonus payable  
is converted into shares.
The Bonus shares are subject to a 
restriction on sale for three years. 
No performance conditions apply. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 92
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Performance shares (see also notes 2 and 3)
To incentivise executives to 
achieve sustained growth 
through superior long term 
performance and create 
alignment with shareholders.
The performance share 
awards reward executives 
for performance against key 
measures which are critical  
to delivering our strategy.
Allows for annual grants of 
performance shares. Awards vest 
after three years, subject to 
performance conditions. Vested 
shares for Executive Directors  
are then subject to a two year 
holding period.
Participants are entitled to dividend 
equivalents between award and 
vesting, paid in additional shares  
at vesting in respect of awards  
that vest.
Malus and clawback arrangements 
operate in respect of performance 
shares. These enable the Company 
to reduce unvested awards and to 
clawback the relevant value of the 
vested shares for a period of up to 
three years after the date of vesting. 
Malus and clawback may be 
applied in certain situations where 
there is found to be a material 
misstatement in the audited 
accounts of the Group or a Group 
company accounts, where the 
executive’s action or conduct 
amounts to gross misconduct,  
or where there is a significant 
detrimental reputational impact  
on the Company for which the 
executive is responsible.
Awards granted under the LTIP 
may vest on a change of control 
and certain other corporate events, 
assessed (unless the Committee  
in its discretion otherwise decides) 
against performance conditions 
and on a time pro-rated basis  
in accordance with the rules of  
the plan.
Until the end of 2013, performance 
shares have been granted under 
the rules of the Company’s LTIP 
and are subject to performance 
conditions and from 2014 would be 
granted under the rules of the 
Company’s proposed 2014 LTIP .
Awards may be made to 
Executive Directors at the 
following levels:
• Chief Executive: 250%.
• Other Executive  
Directors: 200%.
300% of salary may be 
awarded in exceptional 
circumstances.
In 2013, the award level for 
all Executive Directors was 
100% of salary. 
Until the end of 2013, awards 
were also made of matching 
shares equalling two times 
the number of shares 
voluntarily and compulsorily 
deferred under the annual 
bonus. The shares were 
subject to performance 
conditions. Matching shares 
will not be granted under  
the Company’s proposed 
2014 LTIP.
Performance conditions measured 
over three financial years. Vested 
shares for Executive Directors are 
then subject to a two year holding 
period.
Performance measures and relative 
weightings are:
• Earnings per share (EPS) growth 
(1/3 weighting).
• Relative total shareholder return 
(TSR) (1/3 weighting). 
 – TSR relative to comparator 
group of global engineering 
companies.
 – Threshold vesting at median. 
Maximum vesting at upper 
quintile.
• Improvement in average return  
on capital employed (ROCE)  
(1/3 weighting).
For all three measures, 25% of the 
maximum award vests at threshold 
and 100% at maximum, with vesting 
calculated on a straight line basis.
The two measures under which 
performance was assessed for 
performance and matching shares 
granted until 2013 were relative EPS 
and TSR growth.
The following performance 
conditions apply to outstanding 
awards made prior to 2014: 
EPS growth 
p.a. (50% 
weighting)
TSR  
(50% 
weighting)
2011 7% – 15% 
Median 
to upper 
quintile
2012 7% – 15% 
2013 5% – 11%
In exceptional circumstances, where 
the Committee believes that the 
original performance measures and 
targets are no longer appropriate,  
it has discretion to substitute or  
vary these measures and targets. 
The Committee will only take such  
a course of action where it considers 
it to be in the best interests of the 
shareholders. In these exceptional 
circumstances, the Committee 
will make full disclosure of the 
arrangements and their rationale in 
the following year’s Annual Report 
on Remuneration. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Shareholding guidelines
To ensure the interests  
of the Executive Directors  
remain aligned with those  
of shareholders.
Executive Directors are required 
to build up a shareholding in 
the Company over a five year 
period.
Under the 2014 LTIP, 30% of 
the annual bonus is converted 
into shares with a restriction on 
sale. The Company requires 
Executive Directors to retain 
50% of performance shares 
received, after the deduction 
of applicable taxes, from the 
2014 LTIP and the bonus shares 
subject to restriction on sale 
until the requirements are met. 
All shares beneficially owned 
by an executive and shares 
subject to a restriction on sale 
count towards achieving these 
guidelines. The Committee 
reviews share ownership levels 
annually for this group.
The Committee has flexibility 
in the application of this policy 
to take into account particular 
individual circumstances.
Until 2013, Executive Directors 
were encouraged to build up a 
shareholding in the Company 
of 100% base salary over a five 
year period.
The minimum shareholding 
requirement is as follows:
• Chief Executive: 200%  
of base salary.
• Other Executive Directors: 
150% of base salary.
The restriction on sale and 
the shareholding requirement 
will take effect from the date 
of approval of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy.
— The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 94
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued
How the element supports our 
strategic objectives Operation of the element
Maximum potential value and 
payment at threshold
Performance metrics used, weighting 
and time period applicable
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
To attract and retain experienced 
and skilled Non-Executive 
Directors.
Fees will be reviewed annually 
by reference to companies of 
similar size and complexity, 
economic and labour 
market conditions as well 
as time commitment and 
responsibilities.
For 2014, the following fees  
will apply:
• Chairman’s fee is £275,000 
per annum for all of his 
responsibilities.
• Non-Executive Directors’ base 
fee is £55,000 per annum.
• In the event that the Company 
appoints a Deputy Chairman, 
an additional fee of up to 
£10,000 per annum may be 
paid.
• Additional fees of £10,000 per 
annum are paid to the Audit 
Committee Chairman and the 
Remuneration Committee 
Chairman to reflect their extra 
responsibilities.
• As the Chairman also chairs 
the Nomination Committee, 
there are currently no 
additional fees paid for this 
role. However, additional fees 
may be paid in future years in 
line with the fees for the Chairs 
of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees.
• Additional fees of £10,000 per 
annum are paid to the Senior 
Independent Director.
Additional allowances are made 
available to Non-Executive 
Directors, where appropriate, 
to reflect the additional time 
commitment in attending 
intercontinental Board meetings 
and operational visits.
Increases are effective 
in April and any planned 
increases in fees will take into 
account general increases 
across the Group along with 
market practice.
The maximum fee level for 
each Non-Executive Director 
would be set within the range 
of fee levels in our peer group 
of companies of a similar size 
and complexity.
The fees paid to the Chairman 
and the Non-Executive Directors 
are not performance related.
Notes to the policy table
1. Annual bonus performance measures and targets
• The profit performance measure of Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) was selected by the Company as profitability  
is central to the Company’s overall strategy. The performance measure is adjusted to exclude items that are one off in nature, subject to 
Remuneration Committee approval.
•  The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee. The performance targets for the NPBTA performance measure are set 
in the context of consensus forecasts and the internal budget.
•  The performance required for maximum payout is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Company’s forecasts. If performance 
is in line with the forecast then typically part of the annual bonus would pay out.
•  The performance target of NPBTA is adjusted to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period and is also increased or 
decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval. For acquisitions, 
the target is increased by the expected NPBTA from the acquired business. For disposals, the target is reduced by the budgeted NPBTA from 
the business which was disposed of. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95
•  The Committee is of the view that the performance target for the financial element under the annual bonus is commercially sensitive and that it 
would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose this before the end of the financial year. Disclosure of the performance target 
of the financial element in advance could lead the Company to be at a competitive disadvantage as many competitors are not listed in the UK 
and would not be subject to this requirement. The Company would be releasing potentially commercially sensitive information which many of 
the Company’s direct competitors in its three end markets would not be required to disclose.
• The personal performance measures relate to achievement of personal and strategic goals.
•  Personal performance measures and targets are set by the Chairman for the Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for other Executive 
Directors. The Committee discusses and approves these targets for Executive Directors in consultation with the Director of Human 
Resources and they are linked to the Company’s annual appraisal process.
•  The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the personal element are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal 
management projects and personal goals. 
•  The performance targets for the financial elements of the bonus and the main groupings of individual performance measures will be 
retrospectively disclosed after the end of the relevant financial period in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
2. LTIP performance measures and targets
• The Committee selected the performance conditions for the LTIP as these are central to the Company’s overall strategy and are intended  
to link reward to long term sustainable growth.
• The performance measures are EPS, TSR and ROCE:
 – EPS is adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee may 
specify. In addition, the EPS figure used to calculate the award may be adjusted for changes in accounting standards to ensure a 
consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
 – TSR is the increase in the net return index (the index that reflects movements in share price over a period and dividend reinvested net  
of any associated tax credit in shares on the ex-dividend date) for a company as calculated by Datastream (or such other financial 
information provider as selected by the Committee) over the performance period.
 – ROCE is defined as earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed. Earnings before interest and tax is taken as Group 
continuing operations after intangibles amortisation but before exceptional items for the relevant financial year. Capital employed is 
taken as the average of opening and closing Group net assets excluding net debt/cash and pension deficit (net of deferred tax asset)  
for the relevant financial year. To eliminate the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates over the period of the plan, the average 
foreign exchange rates for the base year are held constant throughout the plan period. With regard to acquisitions, those acquisitions 
made in the base year are included, based on a full year’s ownership, for the purposes of target setting. Where acquisitions are made  
in subsequent years of the plan period, these are excluded from the assessment of performance relative to the target. Where there are 
disposals during the plan period, the base and target ROCE calculations will be restated to eliminate the contribution from the disposed 
business in the period of ownership.
• The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee. EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are set to ensure they are sufficiently 
stretching but also motivational and consistent with the Company’s remuneration strategy. In setting targets the Committee considers the 
Company’s operating environment, and internal and external growth forecasts.
•  The performance required for maximum vesting is typically set at a level that is above the level of the Company’s forecasts. If performance 
is in line with the forecast then typically part of the award would vest.
•  EPS, TSR and ROCE targets are disclosed prospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
3. Differences in remuneration policy for all employees
• The Company seeks to operate a locally driven approach to pay and benefits in all its locations.
• Employees in management roles are also eligible to participate in an annual bonus. The maximum opportunity available in the annual bonus 
scheme is based on the seniority and responsibility of the role.
• The LTIP seeks to encourage a shared focus on our corporate goals within the senior management and executive populations. Grants under 
the proposed 2014 LTIP may be made to around 300 of the most senior managers in the Group. The nature of the award depends on the 
individual’s location and seniority. When used, the performance conditions will be the same throughout the Group.
• In markets other than the UK, LTIP awards may be made in the form of a combination of performance shares and/or either restricted shares 
or share appreciation rights with a corresponding reduction in award level. The restricted shares or share appreciation rights are subject to 
a service condition of continued employment within the Group.
Elements of old policy to continue to apply
Deferred bonus, matching shares and other LTIP shares from historical awards made prior to the adoption of this policy will continue to pay out 
in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each award.
Approach to recruitment remuneration 
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment 
of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component. On the appointment of a new Executive 
Director through an internal promotion, the Company will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation 
of promotion, and these will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each element of remuneration as 
originally set, notwithstanding that this may be inconsistent with the policy for existing Executive Directors. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 96
Area Policy and operation
Overall
• The Committee’s approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive 
Director externally is to take account of the individual’s remuneration package in their role prior to joining the Weir Group; the 
market positioning of the remuneration package against the local market; and not to pay more than necessary to facilitate  
the recruitment of the individual in question.
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to an Executive Director in order to facilitate their 
recruitment will be aligned with bonus and LTIP individual limits as a percentage of salary, as set out in the future policy table 
of the Remuneration Report. This excludes the value of any replacement awards.
Service contracts
• To recruit the best executives, the Committee may in the future agree a contractual notice period with the Executive Director 
which initially exceeds the standard twelve months, particularly if it is necessary to attract executives who will be required  
to relocate their families. This will reduce to a 12 month rolling notice period once the individual is 12 months from the end  
of their initial notice period.
Base salary
• The salary level will be consistent with those in the Company’s peer group, from similar positions, locations and experience 
consistent with the policy table.
• Salary will be set so as not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Benefits  
and pension
• The Executive Director shall be eligible for benefits in line with the Company’s policy for current Executive Directors.
• Pensions arrangements for future recruits will be in line with the market practice at that time. 
Annual bonus
• The appointed Executive Director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the terms of the 
Company’s Executive Bonus Scheme. 30% of any bonus earned will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale in line 
with the policy table for existing Executive Directors.
• The maximum level of opportunity will be consistent with the opportunity levels for Executive Directors as set out in the policy 
table.
LTIP
• The Executive Director will be eligible for performance share awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its 
sole discretion, subject to the rules of the 2014 LTIP (and subject to the approval of that plan at the 2014 AGM).
• The maximum level of opportunity will be consistent with the opportunity levels for Executive Directors as set out in the  
policy table.
Replacement  
awards
• The Committee will consider what replacement awards (if any) are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an 
Executive Director. This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation and benefit items that would  
be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
• The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of 
quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
• In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to replicate the value, taking into 
account, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone and which the Committee 
will seek to deliver in Company shares.
• The Committee will seek to ensure a meaningful proportion of the replacement awards which are not attributable to long 
term incentives foregone will be delivered in Company shares, released at a later date and subject to continued employment.
• If the Executive Director’s prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement 
payments shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other
• The Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain mobility or relocation costs, including but not limited to 
temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the Company’s prevailing mobility policy for senior executives.  
The Committee may also agree that the Company meets the cost of relevant professional fees.
• The Company shall reimburse the Executive Director for all reasonable expenses incurred as part of their recruitment.
• Directors and Officers liability insurance will also be provided in line with the policy for Executive Directors.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office
The Board’s policy on Directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment and termination arrangements is set out below. This includes  
a description of any obligation on the Company contained or proposed to be in all Directors’ service contracts or letters of appointment.  
The Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
As an overriding principle, it is the Board’s policy that there should be no element of reward for failure. The Committee’s approach when 
considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, 
contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’s service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, when 
determining what compensation, if any, should properly be paid by the Company to the departing Executive Director, will give full consideration  
to the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
All the Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company. The table below sets out the Company’s 
policy and, except where noted, these terms also apply to existing service contracts.
 
Contract  
commencement  
date
Executive Director Contract commencement date
Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 
Jon Stanton 19 April 2010 
Unexpired term • The unexpired term of all Executive Directors’ service contracts is 12 months. It is the Company’s policy 
that Executive Directors have rolling service contracts. 
Notice period • The Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company that provide 
for a minimum period of notice of:
 – 12 months by Keith Cochrane and six months by Jon Stanton.
 – 12 months by the Company.
• The Company’s policy on the setting of contractual notice periods for Executive Directors is to set a notice 
period of 12 months for both parties, although the Committee may in the future agree contractual notice 
periods which initially exceed 12 months in the circumstances described above in the Company’s 
approach to recruitment remuneration.
Contractual payments Policy for future service contracts
•  Executive Directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or 
termination by way of payment in lieu of notice (PILON) at the Company’s discretion. Neither notice  
nor a PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
• Employment contracts may include PILON clauses potentially including up to 12 months’ base salary  
and the cash equivalent of 12 months’ contractual benefits. There would be no contractual entitlement  
to receive annual bonus awards in respect of the notice period – any award would be at the Committee’s 
absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual target level.
• PILONs would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors’ services are not 
required for the full 12 months of their notice period. Contracts would also allow for phased payments on 
termination, which allows for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment 
outside of the Group during the notice period.
Policy for existing service contracts
• The employment contracts for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton were agreed before 27 June 2012  
and contain certain provisions which it is not proposed to include in the contracts of future Directors.  
The Committee reviewed the provisions in existing contracts and are comfortable that no amendments 
have been made to the contracts and therefore the grandfathering provisions for contracts in place  
prior to June 2012 apply.
• The Company may make a PILON equal to 12 months’ salary and the cost to the Company of providing  
all other benefits for that period, or a sum equivalent to 10% of the individual’s annual salary in respect of 
other benefits. PILON will exclude pension, bonus and share related incentives. The Company may make 
the PILON in instalments, subject to reduction where the individual commences alternative employment.
• In addition, the Company may pay a bonus of up to 12 months subject to performance, as determined by 
the Remuneration Committee. The amount payable would be consistent with any performance 
determination made for other employees of broadly similar status or seniority. If the departing Executive 
Director commences alternative employment, the Committee may reduce that payment to take account  
of any performance related bonus that the individual receives from the alternative employment for  
that period.
• If the Group terminates an Executive Director’s service contract other than in accordance with its terms, 
the Company shall make a payment calculated in the same way as if it had made a PILON. 
Additional policy for future and existing service contracts
• In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers 
reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims, e.g. unfair dismissal or where agreed under a compromise 
or settlement agreement. This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory 
rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions. It may include in such 
payments reasonable reimbursement of legal fees in connection with such agreements. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 98
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Annual bonus plan • An Executive Director will only be eligible to receive a bonus under the Group’s Executive Bonus Scheme  
if he is an employee of the Group at the time that the Company authorises payment of the bonus although 
at the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment may be made to an Executive Director who has 
retired subject to assessment of the bonus targets.
• As part of the Group’s Executive Bonus Scheme, Executive Directors have been granted awards of shares 
in respect of the deferred element of the bonus and matching shares under the Company’s LTIP , which  
is governed by the rules of that plan. The treatment of awards under that plan is described in the section 
below entitled LTIP .
• Additional shares which Executive Directors have voluntarily invested under the Company’s LTIP  
(and in respect of which matching shares have been awarded under the Company’s LTIP) are not  
subject to forfeiture.
• The Company is seeking shareholder approval for a 2014 LTIP under which bonuses converted into 
shares with a restriction on sale would be awarded. The treatment of awards under that plan is also 
described in the section below entitled LTIP .
LTIP • Existing performance share awards and matching share awards have been granted under the Company’s 
LTIP . It is proposed that future awards of performance shares would be granted under the 2014 LTIP to be 
put to shareholders for approval in 2014.
• The treatment of Executive Directors ceasing to be employees of the Group under both the Company’s 
LTIP and the 2014 LTIP depends on whether they leave for a “good leaver” reason. Good leaver reasons 
include retirement, disability, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, on the sale of the individual’s 
employing company or business or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
In these circumstances, unvested performance shares and matching shares granted under the Company’s 
LTIP normally vest on the normal vesting date assessed against any applicable performance conditions over 
the normal performance period and (with the exception of cessation for retirement) pro-rated for time, unless 
the Committee exercises its discretion to allow vesting following termination where performance is measured 
over a shortened period and time pro-rated, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
In the case of performance shares granted under the 2014 LTIP , it is proposed that for awards to the 
Executive Directors there would be a three year vesting period followed by a two year holding period. 
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for a “good leaver” reason before the end of the 
three year vesting period, shares would normally be delivered at the end of the holding period, assessed 
against any applicable performance conditions over the normal three year vesting period and pro-rated for 
time, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise. Where an Executive Director ceases to be 
an employee for any reason after the three year vesting period but before the end of the holding period, 
the shares which vested at the end of the three year vesting period will be released to him at the end of the 
holding period. Performance shares are subject to the operation of malus or clawback. The Committee 
may instead exercise its discretion to release shares before the end of the holding period, and if it permits 
this to take place during the normal vesting period, performance is measured over a shortened period and 
time pro-rated, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
Under both the Company’s LTIP and the 2014 LTIP , where an Executive Director’s employment is 
terminated for a reason other than a “good leaver” reason, his unvested performance shares and 
matching shares will lapse.
• Awards which are already vested as at the date of termination of employment are exercisable for three 
months following cessation.
• On death, the award vests at the date of death and can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the 
deceased’s estate.
• Awards of compulsory investment shares made under the Company’s LTIP which were made in 
connection with the Group’s Executive Bonus Scheme may be exercised in full within three months 
following the relevant Executive Director’s termination of employment or, if the Committee considers 
appropriate, in full during the period of three months of the third anniversary of the date the awards were 
granted. In the case of circumstances warranting dismissal for gross misconduct the award shall lapse.
• Bonuses converted into shares with a restriction on sale made under the proposed 2014 LTIP which are 
made in connection with the Group’s Executive Bonus Scheme will have the restriction removed on the 
third anniversary of the date the awards were granted, or if the Committee considers appropriate, following 
the relevant Executive Director’s termination of employment. Bonuses converted into shares with a 
restriction on sale will only lapse in the case of circumstances warranting dismissal for gross misconduct. 
Awards with a restriction on sale are subject to malus and clawback.
Change in control • No Executive Director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of  
the Company. 
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual 
entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
The details, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive Directors who served during the 
year are set out in the table below. Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
With the exception of the Chairman, the Company policy for notice periods for future Non-Executive Directors is for no notice period by the 
individual and a notice period of six months by the Company. This is in line with the details in the table for Non-Executive Directors appointed 
since 2011.
None of the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors have provisions in their letters of appointment that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Non-Executive  
Director
Contract  
commencement date
Expiry of
current term
Notice period  
by the individual
Notice period
by the Company
Charles Berry 1 January 2014 May 2014 6 months 6 months
Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 May 2014 – 6 months
Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 May 2014 – 6 months
Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 May 2014 – 6 months
Rick Menell 1 April 2009 May 2014 6 months 6 months
John Mogford 1 June 2008 May 2014 6 months 6 months
Lord Robertson 1 February 2004 May 2014 6 months 6 months
Lord Smith
1
6 February 2002 – – –
Note
1. Lord Smith resigned as a Director on 31 December 2013.
External appointments
The Executive Directors are permitted, with Board agreement, to take up one non-executive appointment provided there is no conflict of 
interest and that the time spent would not impinge on their work for the Group. It is the Company’s policy that remuneration earned from such 
appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 100
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Finance Director
Package make up Package Value £’000 
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
Minimum On-target Maximum
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
Minimum On-target Maximum
20%
40%
60%
Minimum On-target Maximum
80%
100%
£1,000
£2,000
£3,000
Minimum On-target Maximum
£4,000
Fixed element
Short term incentive
Long term incentive
Fixed element
Short term incentive
Long term incentive
Package Value £’000
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Minimum On-target Maximum
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Minimum On-target Maximum
20%
40%
60%
Minimum On-target Maximum
80%
100%
£1,000
£2,000
£3,000
Minimum On-target Maximum
£4,000
Fixed element
Short term incentive
Long term incentive
Fixed element
Short term incentive
Long term incentive
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
A key element of the Company’s remuneration policy is to provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive 
plans. Set out below is the reward mix for both Executive Directors at minimum performance, on-target performance and maximum 
performance as proposed under the future policy table. The package is broadly structured so that for maximum performance at least 75%  
of the overall package is delivered through variable pay. As such, the aggregate level of remuneration received by the Executive Directors 
demonstrates a clear relationship between reward and performance.
Chief Executive
Package make up
Notes
1. The scenarios presented above demonstrate the amount of each remuneration element at minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
2. Salary is shown based on current salary.
3. Benefits are shown based on 2013 benefits received as a percentage of 2013 salary as set out in the single total figure table in the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
4. Pension is shown based on the employer contribution or cash allowance of 12% of salary.
5. Bonus is shown based on opportunity levels as set out in the future policy table and includes both bonus paid in cash and bonus converted into shares with a restriction on sale. 
Minimum performance assumes no payout of the bonus. Target performance assumes 60% payout of the bonus. Maximum performance assumes 100% payout of the bonus.
6. LTIP is shown based on opportunity levels as set out in the future policy table. Minimum performance assumes no vesting under the LTIP. Target performance assumes 60% vesting 
under the LTIP. Maximum performance assumes 100% vesting under the LTIP.
The scenarios presented above demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration that is represented by each remuneration element at 
maximum, on-target, and minimum performance. On-target performance is defined as performance at which 60% of maximum on the short 
term and long term incentive would be paid.
The level of annual bonus and bonus converted into shares with a restriction on sale reflects performance achieved in the financial period.  
The level of 2014 LTIP reflects performance achieved over multiple financial periods.
Stakeholder considerations
Material factors taken into account when setting the remuneration policy
The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and is keen to engage where appropriate on key areas of policy 
setting and implementation. The Committee has considered the following in developing the policy for 2014.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with the Company’s shareholder base. This can take a variety of forms, such as: 
• meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular  
shareholder groups; 
•  other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements; and 
•  the annual votes on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
During 2013, the Chair of the Committee met with and wrote to the Company’s largest shareholders and their representative bodies, consulting 
them on the proposed policy and changes to the Executive Directors’ remuneration to be implemented in 2014.
The Committee has also considered the feedback provided by shareholders, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and the Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS) from the 2013 AGM and reflected this feedback in carrying out the strategic review of remuneration in 2013. The high 
level of support as seen by the results of the advisory vote at the 2013 AGM for the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report (97% votes For) and the 
vote for the previous two years (2011: 96% For, 2010: 99% For) indicates strong shareholder support for the Directors’ Remuneration Reports.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101
The wider employee context
The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors’ remuneration policy, 
the wider employee group is not consulted. In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group Executive salaries, the 
Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
Annual Report on Remuneration
Implementation of Directors’ remuneration policy in 2014
In 2014, the Executive Director and Non-Executive Director remuneration policies will be implemented as follows.
Implementation of Executive Directors’ remuneration policy
Fixed elements – Base salary
The Committee made the following 2014 base salary decisions which are in line with the disclosed policy on page 88 of this report:
2014 salary
£
2013 salary
£
Percentage 
change
Keith Cochrane 725,000 725,000 0%
Jon Stanton 440,000 440,000 0%
Salaries are effective from 1 April each year. The Committee has considered the broader employee context in determining salaries. In 2014,  
the increase in base salary for UK employees was an average of 3%.
Fixed elements – Retirement and other benefits
The implementation of policy in relation to pension and benefits is in line with the disclosed policy on page 89 of this report. The auto-enrolment 
provision for Executive Directors is expected to commence in August 2014.
Short term incentives – Annual bonus
The implementation of policy in relation to annual bonus is in line with the disclosed policy on page 90 of this report.
The annual bonus is based on in-year performance against targets. The performance measures are: 80% Group Normalised Profits before Tax 
and Amortisation (NPBTA) measured over the financial period and 20% personal performance targets. Payouts under the NPBTA element may 
be reduced to the extent that Group working capital targets are not achieved.
Targets are approved by the Remuneration Committee prior to the beginning of the performance year. As set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, the Company will be disclosing NPBTA targets and the main groupings of individual performance measures 
retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Performance targets will not be disclosed prospectively for commercial reasons.
30% of bonus payable will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale under the 2014 LTIP . There are no performance conditions on the 
bonus shares.
Long term incentives – performance shares
The Committee has determined that the following awards be made for 2014 in line with the disclosed policy on page 92 of this report, subject 
to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM of the 2014 LTIP rules. Grants will be made within 42 days from the date of shareholder approval of 
the plan.
Awards vest after three years subject to performance conditions. Awards for Executive Directors are then subject to a two year holding period.
Award type Basis on which award made
Face value of award  
at threshold vesting  
(% of 2014 salary)
Face value of award  
at maximum vesting 
(% of 2014 salary) Performance Period
1
Keith Cochrane Performance shares A grant of shares will be made 
based on policy opportunity levels, 
the salary of the individual, and the 
share price on the three days prior 
to grant.
62.5% 250% 1 Jan 2014 – 
31 Dec 2016
Jon Stanton Performance shares 50% 200% 1 Jan 2014 –
31 Dec 2016
Note
1. The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years. The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years. The EPS and ROCE measures are 
calculated over the relevant financial periods.
In all cases, awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the 
underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the awards. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 102
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
The three performance measures for the 2014 award apply in equal weighting and their performance targets are:
TSR EPS ROCE
Relative TSR growth 
against comparator group
Percentage of TSR 
proportion vesting
EPS growth  
per annum
Percentage of EPS 
proportion vesting
Improvement in average 
ROCE per annum
Percentage of ROCE 
proportion vesting
Upper quintile 100% 11% 100% 4% 100%
Median 25% 5% 25% 0.5% 25%
Below median 0% Less than 5% 0% Less than 0.5% 0%
The TSR comparator group for the 2014 LTIP grant is:
Amec PLC, Atlas Copco AB, Cameron International Corporation, Crane Company, Dover Corporation, Dresser-Rand Group Inc., Fenner PLC, 
FLSmidth & Co. A/S, Flowserve Corporation, FMC Corporation, IMI PLC, ITT Corporation, Joy Global Inc., Melrose Industries PLC, Metso 
Corporation, Outotec Oyj, Rotork PLC, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group PLC, Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc, SPX Corporation, Sulzer Ltd, Vesuvius 
Plc, and John Wood Group PLC.
Implementation of Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration policy
Annual fees for 2014 
The implementation of the Non-Executive Director policy is in line with the disclosed policy on page 94 of this report. The fees per annum for 
Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below. 
2014 fees
£
2013 fees
£
Percentage 
change
Chairman 275,000 275,000 0%
Non-Executive Directors’ base fee 55,000 55,000 0%
Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 0%
Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0%
Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0%
Additional fee for Deputy Chairman – 10,000 –
Fees are effective from 1 April each year. Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors, where appropriate, to reflect 
the additional time commitment in attending intercontinental Board meetings and operational visits.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman
Details of the remuneration for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 received by the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Chairman who served on the Board during the 2013 financial period are set out in the table below. The table and 
accompanying notes are subject to audit.
Base Fee Other fees Total Fees Benefits
1
Total
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012
£
Charles Berry
2
 45,416 – 6,667 – 52,083 – – – 52,083 –
Alan Ferguson 53,750 50,000 10,000 10,000 63,750 60,000 – – 63,750 60,000
Melanie Gee
3
 53,750 50,000 10,000 6,452 63,750 56,452 – – 63,750 56,452
Rick Menell 53,750 50,000 – – 53,750 50,000 – – 53,750 50,000
John Mogford 53,750 50,000 – – 53,750 50,000 – – 53,750 50,000
Lord Robertson
4
 53,750 50,000 8,750 3,238 62,500 53,238 – – 62,500 53,238
Lord Smith 268,750 250,000 – – 268,750 250,000 498 498 269,248 250,498
Notes
1. Benefits to Lord Smith include Group healthcare for 2012 and 2013.
2. Charles Berry joined the Board as a Director on 1 March 2013. He was appointed Deputy Chairman from 1 May 2013.
3. Melanie Gee became Remuneration Committee Chairman on 9 May 2012.
4. Lord Robertson became Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012.
5. Mary Jo Jacobi joined the Board as a Director on 1 January 2014 and did not receive any remuneration during 2013.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 103
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors
Details of the remuneration for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 received by the Executive 
Directors who served on the Board during the 2013 financial period are set out in the table below. The summary table comprises a number of 
key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow. The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit.
Fixed elements Short term incentives Long term incentives Pension Total
Base salary (i) Benefits (ii) Annual bonus (iii)
LTIP – performance 
shares and matching 
shares (iv)
Retirement 
Benefits (v) Total
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
2013  
£
2012 
£
2013 
£
2012 
£
Keith Cochrane 718,750 687,500 21,656 23,001 108,750 568,584 820,417 2,084,470 – – 1,669,573 3,363,555
Jon Stanton 435,000 415,000 18,334 14,466 44,000 227,433 351,267 659,655 – – 848,601 1,316,554
 
Notes to the single figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table
There were no other payments made during 2012 and 2013 and no Executive Director received remuneration for external appointments  
during 2013.
i) Base salary 
Corresponds to the amounts received during the 2013 financial year
Salary is paid monthly to Executive Directors. Salaries were last increased in April 2013 when Keith Cochrane’s salary was increased from 
£700,000 to £725,000 and Jon Stanton’s salary was increased from £420,000 to £440,000.
ii) Benefits
Corresponds to the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the 2013 financial year. 
Keith Cochrane
2013
£
Jon Stanton
2013
£
Life insurance cover 4,143 3,866
Car allowance 17,015 13,970
Group healthcare 498 498
21,656 18,334 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 104
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
iii) Short term incentives
Corresponds to the total bonus earned under the annual bonus in respect of 2013 performance and includes both the cash element (70%) and 
the bonus to be converted into shares with a restriction on sale (30%).
The 2013 annual bonus was based on achievement of Group Normalised Profits before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) (80%) and personal 
performance targets (20%). Executive Directors’ 2013 performance was assessed relative to both the financial targets and other performance 
considerations further outlined below.
2013 performance measures for Executive Directors
Financial KPI – NPBTA
2013 performance 
required
£m
Actual performance
£m
Maximum payout  
achievable as percentage 
of total bonus opportunity
Payout as a percentage  
of maximum
Based on the achievement of NPBTA targets 
measured over the financial period
1
.
Threshold 425 418 80% 0%
Target 463
Stretch 503
Individual performance
Maximum payout 
achievable as percentage 
of total bonus opportunity
Actual payout  
as a percentage of total 
bonus opportunity
Individual performance objectives are robustly set and are customised for each individual.  
All objectives are measurable and are objectively determined. Individual objectives for 2013 
were built around the Company’s key performance indicators. Objectives covered areas such 
as strategic growth of the Company, innovation, working capital, stakeholder engagement  
and organisational capability.
20% Keith Cochrane: 10%
Jon Stanton: 10%
Note
1. The performance measure is Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation (NPBTA) as disclosed in the Group’s financial reporting for the relevant financial year. The targets are set 
before the start of the period and are subsequently adjusted at the end of the period to ensure comparability. The adjustments are approved by the Remuneration Committee and 
include restating targets on a constant currency basis and updating the targets to reflect the expected performance of acquisitions and disposals of a size requiring Board approval 
made in the year.
2013 short term incentive awards
Based on the outcome of 2013 performance as outlined above, the Committee approved the following annual bonus awards under the 
Executive Bonus Scheme to Executive Directors:
Executive Director
Award
1 
£
Percentage  
of salary
2
Percentage 
of maximum 
opportunity
Keith Cochrane 108,750 15% 10%
Jon Stanton 44,000 10% 10%
Notes
1. Includes 30% conversion into shares with restriction on sale over three years.
2. Bonus percentage is based on salary as at 31 December in the relevant financial year.
3. Bonus to be paid in March 2014. 
iv) Long term incentives
The value represents an estimate of the market value of the 2011 performance and matching share awards at year end.
In accordance with the Regulations, the single total remuneration figure for 2013 includes the value of the performance and matching shares 
made under the 2011 LTIP Award, with a performance period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013. These awards are due to vest in 
March 2014. The 2013 values will be restated next year once the share price at date of vesting is known. Prior year calculations are based on 
the share price at date of vesting.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reflect significant one-off items which occur during 
the performance period.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105
LTIP awards vesting in 2014
The 2011 performance share and matching share awards for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton will vest on 17 March 2014. The table below  
sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as the resulting gross vesting value using  
the share price over Q4 of 2013 in accordance with the Regulations. No discretion was exercised in respect of the awards.
2011 performance  
share awards
Performance conditions  
and targets set Maximum potential value 
Maximum number  
of shares granted
Performance metrics, weighting 
and period and method of 
determining performance
Resulting 
vesting  
£
Keith Cochrane Performance conditions 
set out on page 107.
Performance period of 
three years ended on 
31 December 2013 with 
vesting on 17 March 
2014.
Shares with value of 
100% of salary on the 
date of grant.
41,481 Overall level of  
vesting 42.8%.
50% of award is based on 
EPS growth. Actual EPS 
growth was 13.45% p.a. 
resulting in 85.5% vesting
1
.
50% of award is based 
on TSR growth. Actual 
TSR growth was 38%, 
corresponding to below 
median performance 
relative to peers between 
January 2011 and 
December 2013, resulting  
in 0% vesting.
Dividend equivalents  
are paid on vested  
shares based on dividend 
payments over the 
performance period. 
Dividend equivalents will be 
delivered in shares.
409,227
Jon Stanton 25,526 251,824
2011 matching 
share awards
Resulting 
vesting  
£
Keith Cochrane Performance conditions 
set out on page 107.
Performance period of 
three years ended on 
31 December 2013 with 
vesting on 17 March 
2014.
Shares with value of 
200% of compulsory 
and voluntary deferred 
annual bonus on the 
date of grant, subject to 
continued employment 
and retention of 
compulsory investment 
shares and voluntary 
investment shares where 
applicable.
41,680 411,190
Jon Stanton 10,080 99,443
Note
1. The EPS outcome has been adjusted to remove the impact of IAS19R on the 2013 result to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
Share price at vesting was estimated as the average of the Company’s share price over the last financial quarter of 2013, giving the price 
£21.97. The vesting total includes dividend equivalents of 100.8p per share, being the dividends paid between the date of award and the date 
of vesting. Of the total vesting value, the value of dividend equivalents for Keith Cochrane’s awards is £38,440 and for Jon Stanton’s awards  
is £16,459.
Note that compulsory and voluntary investment shares will also be released in 2014 to individuals alongside the matching awards. The number 
of shares expected to be released in 2014 is 16,847 for Keith Cochrane and 5,040 for Jon Stanton. The compulsory investment shares also 
have the right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares to the value of 100.8p per share at the date of vesting. The value of these 
shares does not form part of the Single Total Figure Table as they have not been subject to performance measures since they were granted.
v) Retirement benefits
Represents the cash value of the total Company contributions towards retirement benefit provision 
The Group made no specific provision for Executive Director pensions in 2012 and 2013. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 106
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Scheme interests awarded during 2013
The following table sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in the Company’s share schemes, comprising awards of performance  
and matching shares and compulsory investment shares under the LTIP , which were awarded during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014.  
The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 3 January 2014 was £21.09 and the range during the year was £18.33 to £24.90.  
The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit.
2013 LTIP awards Award type
Type of 
interest 
awarded
Date of 
award
Share price  
on date  
of award
pence Basis of award
Number 
of shares 
awarded
Face value 
of award at 
threshold 
vesting 
£
Face value 
of award at 
maximum 
vesting 
£
Date of 
vesting
Performance 
period
Keith Cochrane
Performance  
and matching 
Nil cost 
options 11 Mar 13 2,474
100% salary plus 
200% of compulsory 
investment shares 44,313 274,076 1,096,304 11 Mar 16
1 Jan 13 
– 31 Dec 15
Compulsory 
investment
Nil cost 
options 11 Mar 13 2,474 30% of bonus 7,090 175,407 175,407 11 Mar 16 –
Jon Stanton
Performance  
and matching 
Nil cost 
options 11 Mar 13 2,474
100% salary plus 
200% of compulsory 
investment shares 23,960 148,193 592,770 11 Mar 16
1 Jan 13 
– 31 Dec 15
Compulsory 
investment
Nil cost 
options 11 Mar 13 2,474 30% of bonus 2,836 70,163 70,163 11 Mar 16 –
Notes
1. The figures shown for performance and matching share awards are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) which vest will depend on the performance 
conditions being achieved as set out on page 107. Threshold vesting equals 25% vesting. Maximum vesting equals 100% vesting. No performance and matching shares will vest  
for below-threshold performance.
2. The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years. The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years. The EPS measure is calculated over 
financial periods.
3. The face value of the award is based on the share price. The exercise price for performance and matching shares and for compulsory investment shares is zero.
4. Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton did not elect to voluntarily defer any additional portion of their bonus in respect of 2012.
5. No additional shares were granted other than at the date of award set out above.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107
Performance conditions for the LTIP 
2011 2012 2013
TSR
Weighting 50% 50% 50%
Target structure
Relative TSR 
Growth against 
comparator group
Percentage of 
the TSR portion 
of the award 
that vests
Relative TSR
Growth against
comparator group
Percentage of 
the TSR portion 
of the award 
that vests
Relative TSR
Growth against
comparator group
Percentage of 
the TSR portion 
of the award 
that vests
Maximum 
performance Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100%
Threshold 
performance Median 25% Median 25% Median 25%
Below threshold 
performance Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0%
Comparator group AMEC
2
, Cameron, Crane,
Dover, Dresser Rand, FL
Smidth, Flowserve, FMC,
Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, 
Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, 
Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, 
Sulzer, Vesuvius
3
, Wood Group
AMEC
2
, Cameron, Crane,
Dover, Dresser Rand, FL
Smidth, Flowserve, FMC,
Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, 
Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, 
Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX, 
Sulzer, Vesuvius
3
, Wood Group
AMEC
2
, Cameron, Crane,
Dover, Dresser Rand, Fenner, FL 
Smidth, Flowserve, FMC, Forum 
Energy
4
, Halma, IMI, Joy Global, 
Meggitt, Melrose, Metso, Outotec,
Rotork, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, 
SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius
3
, Wood Group
Growth in EPS
1
Weighting 50% 50% 50%
Target structure EPS growth 
per annum
Percentage of 
EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
EPS growth 
per annum
Percentage of 
EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
EPS growth 
per annum
Percentage of 
EPS portion 
of the award 
that vests
Maximum 
performance 15% 100% 15% 100% 11% 100%
Threshold 
performance 7% 25% 7% 25% 5% 25%
Below threshold 
performance
Less than 
7% 0%
Less than 
7% 0%
Less than 
5% 0%
Performance 
periods
Single three year performance period  
for both elements
Single three year performance period  
for both elements
Single three year performance period  
for both elements
Notes
1. Adjusted to exclude intangibles, amortisation and exceptional items.
2. Charter plc was acquired during 2011 and has been replaced by AMEC in the comparator group.
3. Cookson Group demerged on 1 November 2012, with the new company Alent Plc being separated from the rest of the business, which has been renamed Vesuvius Plc. Vesuvius Plc 
will succeed Cookson Group in the comparator group.
4. Gardner Denver was acquired and delisted in 2013. It has been removed from the 2011 and 2012 comparator groups and replaced by Forum Energy Technologies in the 2013 
comparator group.
5. Lufkin was acquired during 2013 and has been removed from the 2011, 2012 and 2013 comparator groups. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 108
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Directors’ shareholding and share interests
The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the 
alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of shareholders in this regard through  
the operation of the Company’s LTIP and the conversion into shares with restriction on sale of 30% of the annual bonus award for a period  
of three years. These remuneration elements constitute a significant proportion of individual remuneration packages.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the shareholding guidelines will apply as outlined in the policy table on page 93. Until then, 
the current practice of encouraging Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in the Company of 100% of base salary over a five year 
period will continue to apply. All shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director count towards achieving these guidelines. There is no 
shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Summary of awards
Summary of total number of interests in shares in the Company and scheme interests as at 3 January 2014
The table and accompanying notes are subject to audit.
Security type
Interests in shares  
in the Company  
as at 3 January 2014
Scheme interests  
as at 3 January 2014
Scheme interests  
vested and exercised  
in 2013 (2010 grant)
1
Total shares 
contributing 
to 
shareholding 
guidelines 
(% of 2013 
salary)
Proposed 
shareholding 
guidelines 
(% of 2014 
salary) Total shares
Total shares 
(% of 2013 
salary)
Total 
performance 
shares and 
matching 
shares 
(options with 
performance 
conditions)
2
Total 
compulsory 
investment 
shares 
(options 
without 
performance 
conditions)
Total 
performance 
shares and 
matching 
shares 
(options with 
performance 
conditions)
Total 
compulsory 
investment 
shares 
(options 
without 
performance 
conditions)
Keith Cochrane Shares 257,788 750% 211,000 35,275 84,838 10,181 750% 200%
Jon Stanton Shares 18,975 91% 93,465 14,039 30,204 – 91% 150%
Charles Berry Shares 2,000 – – – – – – –
Alan Ferguson Shares 2,730 – – – – – – –
Melanie Gee Shares 2,500 – – – – – – –
Mary Jo Jacobi Shares – – – – – – – –
Rick Menell Shares 1,000 – – – – – – –
John Mogford Shares 11,481 – – – – – – –
Lord Robertson Shares 10,650 – – – – – – –
Lord Smith Shares 163,400 – – – – – – –
Notes
1. On 15 March 2013, the 2010 Award under the LTIP for Keith Cochrane vested in full and on 9 August 2013, the 2010 Award under the LTIP for Jon Stanton vested in full. As a result they 
exercised their awards as set out above, selling 44,914 shares and 14,229 shares respectively to pay the relevant tax and national insurance and retaining the balance. The market price 
at date of vesting was 2,457p and 2,184p respectively. Options exercised in 2013 had zero exercise price.
2. Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility.
3. The share awards granted in 2011 onwards have a right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares payable at vesting.
4. No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Group’s business, in any debenture stocks of the Company,  
or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary.
5. No shares lapsed or did not vest during the year.
6. There are no unexercised vested options held by Executive Directors.
7. All scheme interests outstanding or vesting in the year were share options rather than shares.
8. Total shares as a percentage of salary is based on salary as of 31 December in the relevant financial year and on the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at the financial 
period end. For 2013, the closing market price at 3 January 2014 was £21.09.
9. There have been no changes to Directors’ interests between 3 January 2014 and 26 February 2014.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 109
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the total shareholder return (TSR) for The Weir Group PLC, the FTSE 100 Index and the 2013 LTIP Comparator Group 
over the five year period ending 31 December 2013. This is compared with the total vested and received remuneration for the Chief Executive 
over the same period. 
The Company considers that these are the most relevant indices for a comparison of total shareholder return.
Remuneration history for Chief Executive between 2009 and 2013
Mark Selway Keith Cochrane
 
2009
1
2009
2
2010 2011 2012 2013
Fixed elements £662,077 £95,384 £572,146 £646,645 £710,501 £740,406
Bonus (percentage of maximum) 83.7% 83.7% 100.0% 100.0% 54.0% 10.0%
Performance shares and matching 
shares (percentage of maximum) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 42.8%
Total remuneration £2,237,201 £217,746 £2,913,022 £4,728,338 £3,363,555 £1,669,573
Notes 
1. 2009 remuneration relates to the ten months Mark Selway was Chief Executive until his resignation in November 2009.
2. 2009 remuneration relates to the two months Keith Cochrane was Chief Executive from November 2009. 
Total remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the 2013 remuneration summary in the Single total figure of remuneration for Executive 
Directors table on page 103. In particular, this includes the value of performance shares and matching shares that vest following the end of 
each financial year, including dividends equivalents where appropriate. For 2013, the value of the share awards is estimated based on the 
average share price in the last financial quarter. This will be restated next year once the share price at date of vesting is known. Prior year 
calculations are based on the share price at date of vesting. 
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration
Excluding long term incentives, the percentage change in remuneration for the Chief Executive between the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 
and the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 is detailed below. The change in remuneration for UK employees for the same period is also provided.
Chief Executive
percentage 
change
UK Employees
percentage 
change
Salary & fees 4.5% 4.0%
Taxable benefits -5.8% -5.7%
Bonus -80.9% -79.0%
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
Performance & 
matching shares
Bonus
Fixed elements
The Weir Group PLC TSR
FTSE 100 Index TSR
2013 LTIP Comparator Group TSR The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 110
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
For the purposes of this section, remuneration has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations which includes salary, fees, taxable 
benefits (including emoluments) and certain performance-related pay for the relevant financial year (primarily bonuses but excluding long term 
incentives). Pension and retirement benefits are not included. To help minimise distortions in the data, the UK employee remuneration figures 
have been prepared on the basis of full-time, permanent employees who were employed by Weir companies whose principal reporting 
currency was pounds Sterling during 2012 and 2013. Following the sale of Weir LGE in December 2012, the remuneration of these employees 
has been removed for 2012 for comparative purposes. The Chief Executive’s change in base salary reflects planned increases agreed with 
shareholders as part of a three-year plan.
The UK employee population has been selected as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office employees and other 
individuals located in the same country as the Executive Directors.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the expenditure of the Company on employee remuneration costs in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year.  
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Percentage 
change
Profit distributed by way of dividend 82.6 71.7 15.2%
Overall spend on pay for employees 602.0 568.4 5.9%
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 135. Employees include 
Executive Directors but not Non-Executive Directors. The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general 
financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the salary increase budget, annual bonus funding, long term 
incentive grant budget, and pension levels.
Total pension entitlement
#
The Group made no specific provision for Executive Director pensions in 2013.
Payments to past directors
#
The following payments were made to Alan Mitchelson in 2013 in relation to his outstanding 2010 LTIP Award set out in the Company’s 2012 
Remuneration Report:
• 49,581 Performance and Matching Shares from the 2010 LTIP Award, giving a taxable gain on exercise of £1,210,272.21, based on the 
closing market share price on 14 March 2013 of £24.41. Options exercised in 2013 had zero exercise price. The award vested on 15 March 
2013 with a closing market share price of £24.57.
• 5,731 Compulsory Investment Shares from the 2010 LTIP Award, giving a taxable gain on exercise of £139,893.71, based on the closing 
market share price on 14 March 2013 of £24.41. Options exercised in 2013 had zero exercise price. The award vested on 15 March 2013 
with a closing market share price of £24.57.
Further payments are due in 2014 in relation to the 2011 LTIP . These will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of Alan Mitchelson’s outstanding share awards at the date of his ceasing employment and the 2012 bonus paid in 2013 were disclosed 
in the Remuneration Report of the 2012 Annual Report.
Lord Smith received a gift from the Company on retirement to the value of £7,058, on which tax and national insurance contributions were  
also paid.
Payments for loss of office
#
 
No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued
# Audited. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 111
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
Terms of reference
To ensure reward arrangements support the Company’s philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and benefit 
plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, and the broader employee population. In December 2013, the Committee reviewed its 
terms of reference. The annual performance of the Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation in December 2013 
and it was concluded that the Board and all its Committees were functioning strongly in accordance with good corporate governance. 
More details of the Board evaluation can be found on pages 74 and 75. The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website.
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance
Current members Name Attendance
Melanie Gee (Chairman) Charles Berry
2
5 of 5
Mary Jo Jacobi
1
Melanie Gee 7 of 7
Rick Menell Rick Menell 6 of 7
Lord Robertson Lord Robertson 7 of 7
Remuneration Committee attendees
Lord Smith Group Chairman during 2013 Attends by invitation
Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation
Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee
Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources Attends by invitation
Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP Attends as adviser to the Committee
Notes
1. Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
2. Charles Berry was appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2013 and resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2013.
There were seven meetings held during the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee 
during that period is detailed in the table above. All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors  
and no Director plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration. Executive Directors and senior management attend committee 
meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a 
shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2013
In 2013, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table:
Date Agenda items
January Approval of Group Executive bonus payments; noting of remuneration of the Group Executive; 
approval of bonus measures and targets for year; approval of changes to LTIP comparator 
group; and review of final draft of the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
February Noting of bonus payments to be paid to senior executives; approval of LTIP vesting in respect 
of 2010; approval of participants and performance conditions of the 2013 LTIP award; and 
finalisation of the 2012 Director’s Remuneration Report.
June Consideration of update on the strategic review of remuneration.
July Approval of LTIP grants for new joiners; approval of changes to the LTIP comparator groups;  
and consideration of the strategic remuneration review proposals for 2014.
September Consideration of updated proposals under the strategic remuneration review and discussion  
on Remuneration Committee advisor performance.
October Approval of final proposals for 2014 remuneration structure; consideration of interim updates  
of bonus and LTIP performance; review of internal operating guidelines for incentives; and review 
of pension proposals under auto-enrolment.
December Consideration of shareholder feedback to strategic remuneration review; approval of proposed 
2014 LTIP performance targets and proposed measures and targets for the 2014 annual bonus 
plan; review of salaries for Executive Directors for 2014 and initial proposals for the wider Group; 
review of the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference and review of the 2014 calendar for 
the Remuneration Committee. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 112
Directors’ Report: 
Remuneration Report
Advisors
In discharging its responsibilities in 2013, the Committee was materially assisted by the Director of Human Resources and the Company 
Secretary.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) was appointed following a review of providers by the Committee in 2011 and continued to serve as 
independent external advisor to the Committee. Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2013 
totalled £108,000. This included advice on remuneration policy and practice as well as guidance to the Committee on corporate governance 
trends and best practice. PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
The Committee recognises the need to obtain independent advice and given that PwC provides additional services to the Group, the 
Remuneration Chairman has discussed this with PwC and management. The Committee is confident that any potential conflicts are managed 
appropriately by the Company and PwC. For information, the additional services provided by PwC include advice on pension schemes, 
taxation, company secretariat services and global mobility services. PwC also provided internal audit services, advice in relation to working 
capital management, and provided due diligence and corporate finance advice in relation to acquisitions.
Statement on voting
The Company is committed to maintaining an open shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. In the event of  
a substantial vote against the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and 
would set out in the following Annual Report actions implemented in response.
At the Company’s last Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2013, the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report as contained  
in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 was supported as follows:
Voting outcome 
Votes for Percentage
Votes  
against Percentage
Votes 
total
Votes 
withheld
2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report 133,236,019 96.81% 4,389,417 3.19% 137,625,436 1,645,175
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Melanie Gee
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
26 February 2014
REMUNERATION REPORT
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113
2014 Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday 1 May 2014 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow. The Notice  
of Meeting along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this 
Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Company’s website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by 
electronic poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, is published on the Company’s website after the meeting.
Dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 33.2p per share for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014. Payment of this dividend is subject 
to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Substantial shareholders
At 3 January 2014, the Company had been notified in accordance with the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules  
that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Company’s issued share capital.
Shareholder
Number of 
shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 10,797,589 5.07%
AXA 10,637,959 4.99%
Legal & General 9,978,391 4.70%
Norges Bank 8,503,919 3.99%
No changes have been disclosed to the Company between 3 January 2014 and 26 February 2014. Since this date, the interest of any 
shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased. No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have 
arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level. The percentage level may increase (if the Company 
cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares) or decrease (on the issue of new shares under the LTIP).
Material contracts
There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
Employment policy and involvement
The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 135. 
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of 
operation. Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, 
sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the 
needs of the Group. The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion 
and career development. 
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged. A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including a Group-
wide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local briefings. These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development of a common 
awareness among employees of what affects business performance. 
Further details of the Group’s employment policies and involvement are detailed in the Sustainability Review on pages 56 to 57.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Company  
is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. The Group’s global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for  
2013 and related disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 are 
contained in the Sustainability Review on pages 50 to 53 and form part of the Directors’ Report disclosures.
Financial instruments
The information required in respect of financial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on page 165 to 173.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 114
Directors’ Report: 
Other Statutory Information
Share capital and rights attaching to the Company’s shares
Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p each, are set out in  
note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 159. The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights.
The Weir Group has two employee benefit trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Limited (the ‘Kleinwort EBT’)  
and one with the trustees Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited (the ‘Appleby EBT’).
During the period, the 2010 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 24,528 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy 
the LTIP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market. A further 382,450 ordinary shares were transferred out  
of treasury to satisfy awards under the LTIP . In addition, a total of 259,159 ordinary shares, with an aggregate value of £32,394.88, were allotted 
during the period in connection with the Company’s LTIP .
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect  
of awards which have a dividend entitlement. Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements  
on page 159. The Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K.B. (CI) Nominees Limited, 0.04% of the issued share capital of the 
Company, as at 3 January 2014, in trust for the benefit of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group. The Appleby EBT 
holds, through account nominee Forest Nominees Limited, 0.12% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 3 January 2014. 0.04% of 
this is held in trust for the benefit of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.08% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction 
of any future vesting of the Weir Group Deferred Bonus Plan. With the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain senior executives, 
the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees. The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept  
or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for  
their decision.
Repurchase of shares
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Company’s authority to make market purchases of up to 21.12m ordinary 
shares (representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares). No shares were purchased under this authority 
during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval  
to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases.
Voting rights
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled 
to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing 
a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll.  
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published  
on the Company’s website after the meeting.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association:
• The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will not be 
exercised so as to disturb the market in the Company’s shares.
• The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is delivered to the registrar’s office, or such other place 
as the Directors have specified, accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may 
reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer of shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
Company’s Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution  
of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles  
of Association. In addition, Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered  
by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115
Change of control – significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration  
or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Group has in place a five year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 banks due to mature in July 2018. 
Under the terms of this agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company any lender may request, by not less than 30 days’ notice  
to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
The Company has in issue fixed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% due on 11 January 
2015, £12m at an interest rate of 4.58% due on 11 January 2015, US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018, £43m at an 
interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 16 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate  
of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023. Under the terms of the applicable note 
purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven 
days of the change of control. The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Management report
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report constitute the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 
4.1.5R.
Directors’ Report disclosures contained in the Strategic Report
The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 63:
• Particulars of any important events, if any, affecting the Company which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
• An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company.
•  An indication of the activities of the Company in the field of research and development.
Confirmations
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006) of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed 
the Group’s budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities. In addition, the Directors have considered the 
potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 165 to 173. Each of these items 
has been considered in relation to the Group’s banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 150 and 151. 
The Directors’ Report, covering pages 64 to 116 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 has been approved by the Board of 
Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Keith Ruddock
Company Secretary
26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 116
Directors’ Report: 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the 
Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently. 
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent. 
• State that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
being disclosed and explained. 
• State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing  
the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to the best of their knowledge that: 
• The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group. 
• The Strategic Report and the Director’s Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Charles Berry    Keith Cochrane
Chairman    Chief Executive
26 February 2014    26 February 2014
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117
We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an  
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 3 January 2014 and of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy; the allocation of resources  
in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
• acquisition accounting, focussing on the fair value adjustments made on the 2013 acquisition of Mathena Inc;
• the assessment of the valuation applied to contingent consideration, focussing on the consideration related to the 2013 acquisition  
of Mathena Inc;
• valuation of inventory, focussing on the excess and obsolescence risk associated with the North American Oil and Gas pressure  
pumping businesses;
• the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, focussing on the reassessment and disclosure of the change in CGUs applied  
during the year and the carrying values of intangibles related to the renewables businesses;
• adequacy of the Group’s liability provisioning, including those relating to legal or regulatory obligations;
• the Group’s exposure to significant tax risks and the level of provisions recognised, given the estimation uncertainty in respect  
of settlements with tax authorities around the world; and
• the risk of fraud and management override of internal controls, specifically in relation to revenue and profit recognition on significant 
construction contracts across the Group.
Our application of materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These provide a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, 
identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group to be £20m (2012: £20m), which is below 5% of forecast profit 
before tax from continuing operations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all individual unadjusted audit differences and significant 
judgemental items which either affect the Income Statement in excess of £0.5m (2012: £0.5m), or the Balance Sheet in excess of £2m (2012: 
£2m), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our professional judgement, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit 
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected twenty one (2012: nineteen) 
locations which represent the principal business units within the Group’s three reportable segments and account for 69% (2012: 70%) of the 
revenue, 73% (2012: 77%) of the profit before tax from continuing operations and 75% (2012: 72%) of the net assets. Three (2012: two) of these 
were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining eighteen (2012: seventeen) were subject to a partial audit where the extent of audit work was 
based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s business operations at those locations. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WEIR GROUP PLC  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 118
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WEIR GROUP PLC
Continued
The audit work at the twenty one locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than 
Group materiality.
In addition, certain central reporting entities and Group functions including those covering treasury, taxation, pensions and the Parent 
Company were subject to a full scope audit. For the remaining locations, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant 
risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits and video-conferencing that has been designed to ensure that the 
Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits those locations with greatest exposure to the risks of material misstatements noted above.
 
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified above included the following procedures:
Acquisition accounting
• For the acquisition of Mathena Inc in the year, we reviewed the purchase contracts to understand key terms and conditions, reviewed  
due diligence accounting checklists prepared by management or their independent advisors and the disclosures proposed for the  
financial statements. 
• We challenged management’s assumptions in their assessment of the acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, focussing on  
the adjustments to provisions, properties and taxation.
• We engaged valuation specialists to challenge the key judgements and models applied in the recognition and measurement of separately 
identifiable intangible assets.
The fair valuation assessment of contingent consideration
• We obtained and reviewed the purchase contracts for the Mathena Inc acquisition, along with current and forecasted operating results  
for that entity.
• We challenged management’s current fair valuation assessment of the contingent consideration balance, and considered any impact  
on the carrying value of related goodwill or intangible balances.
• We reviewed the presentation and disclosure within the financial statements of the contingent consideration balance and the adjustments 
made during the year.
Valuation of inventory
• Focussing on the North American Oil and Gas pressure pumping business, we performed an aged analysis of the inventory, comparing 
specific inventory lines against market activity as well as current and forecast sales to identify excess or obsolete inventory exposures.
• We also considered the application of the inventory provisioning accounting policy, including challenging the appropriateness of 
assumptions made by management, through comparison of the provisioning made at a local and Group level against our analysis  
of excess or obsolete inventory.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
• We challenged management’s impairment testing of intangible assets including projected cash flows and perpetuity rates and sensitivities 
performed, and engaged our valuations specialists to review the discount rate assumptions. We considered potential indicators of 
impairment for each Group entity with associated intangible assets, focussing on the specific renewables businesses noted as having 
indicators of impairment. We considered a reasonable change in impairment assumptions to determine whether an impairment charge  
was required.
• We challenged management’s process for reassessing the appropriateness of the CGUs during the year, and their disclosure of the  
basis for this change in the year. 
Adequacy of the Group’s liability provisioning
• We have reviewed the assumptions and methodologies applied behind specific provision calculations, and compared against our 
expectations. Where applicable, we have agreed projected costs against historical cost experience or supporting external evidence.
• We have discussed the status of current litigation or regulatory issues with in house legal and external lawyers throughout our audit 
process, reviewing correspondence with third parties and related contractual agreements. 
The Group’s exposure to significant tax risks
• We have utilised internal national and appropriate international taxation specialists to assist the Group team in the evaluation of the 
assumptions and estimates in relation to the level of provisions recognised for significant tax risks. We have considered the movements  
in these provisions during the period, and the closing balances against our expectations.
The risk of fraud and management override of internal controls, specifically in relation to revenue and profit recognition  
on significant construction contracts across the Group
• In relation to the specific risk of management override noted, we tested controls around accounting for significant construction contracts  
at specific locations, performed reviews of those contracts at those locations with operational management, and challenged the 
appropriateness of assumptions made by management following the outcome of similar assumptions made at the prior year end. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the Group’s financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit  
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 115, in relation to going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and on the 
information in the Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
James Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 120
Financial Statements
Notes
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 
Restated (note 2)
Before 
exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5)
£m
Total
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation
£m
Exceptional 
items & 
intangibles 
amortisation 
(note 5)
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 2,429.8 – 2,429.8 2,538.3 – 2,538.3
Continuing operations
Operating profit before share of results of joint ventures 458.1 23.8 481.9 478.7 (16.5) 462.2
Share of results of joint ventures 15 8.4 – 8.4 6.4 – 6.4
Operating profit 466.5 23.8 490.3 485.1 (16.5) 468.6
Finance costs 6 (47.9) (10.7) (58.6) (46.5) (2.6) (49.1)
Finance income 6 3.0 – 3.0 5.2 – 5.2
Other finance costs – retirement benefits 24 (3.5) – (3.5) (4.0) – (4.0)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 418.1 13.1 431.2 439.8 (19.1) 420.7
Tax expense 7 (107.5) 12.0 (95.5) (123.3) 12.6 (110.7)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 310.6 25.1 335.7 316.5 (6.5) 310.0
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 8 – – – – 3.3 3.3
Profit for the period 310.6 25.1 335.7 316.5 (3.2) 313.3
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 309.8 25.1 334.9 316.2 (3.2) 313.0
Non–controlling interests 0.8 – 0.8 0.3 – 0.3
310.6 25.1 335.7 316.5 (3.2) 313.3
Earnings per share 9
Basic – total operations 157.2p 147.5p
Basic – continuing operations 145.4p 157.2p 149.0p 145.9p
 
Diluted – total operations 156.6p 146.6p
Diluted – continuing operations 144.9p 156.6p 148.1p 145.1p
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 121
Notes
53 weeks 
ended  
3 January 
2014
£m
52 weeks 
ended 
28 December 
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Profit for the period 335.7 313.3
Other comprehensive income 
Gains taken to equity on cash flow hedges 0.1 1.4
Exchange losses on translation of foreign operations (111.3) (84.9)
Exchange gains on net investment hedges 16.5 38.6
Reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges 0.2 0.8
Tax relating to other comprehensive (expense) income to be reclassified in subsequent periods 7 0.3 (0.4)
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (94.2) (44.5)
Remeasurements on defined benefit plans 24 8.0 (10.8)
Tax relating to other comprehensive income (expense) that will not be reclassified in subsequent periods 7 (2.2) 2.5
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 5.8 (8.3)
Net other comprehensive expense (88.4) (52.8)
Total net comprehensive income for the period 247.3 260.5
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 247.3 260.5
Non-controlling interests – –
247.3 260.5
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 122
Financial Statements
Notes
3 January 
2014
£m
28 December 
2012
£m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 11 398.7 374.0
Intangible assets 12 1,614.5 1,454.1
Investments in joint ventures 15 27.1 12.0
Deferred tax assets 23 17.2 30.4
Derivative financial instruments 30 1.1 0.8
Total non-current assets 2,058.6 1,871.3
Current assets
Inventories 16 485.0 512.7
Trade & other receivables 17 497.1 478.2
Construction contracts 18 28.3 21.7
Derivative financial instruments 30 11.1 3.6
Income tax receivable 2.3 4.1
Cash & short-term deposits 19 79.1 391.1
Total current assets 1,102.9 1,411.4
Total assets 3,161.5 3,282.7
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 26.5 65.4
Trade & other payables 21 476.8 485.8
Construction contracts 18 12.1 13.7
Derivative financial instruments 30 9.6 14.7
Income tax payable 36.7 28.6
Provisions 22 28.9 36.4
Total current liabilities 590.6 644.6
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings 20 799.6 1,014.6
Other payables 21 22.4 26.3
Derivative financial instruments 30 0.6 0.8
Provisions 22 25.7 33.2
Deferred tax liabilities 23 165.5 162.5
Retirement benefit plan deficits 24 70.4 90.4
Total non-current liabilities 1,084.2 1,327.8
Total liabilities 1,674.8 1,972.4
NET ASSETS 1,486.7 1,310.3
CAPITAL & RESERVES
Share capital 25 26.7 26.7
Share premium 38.0 38.0
Treasury shares (5.8) (5.6)
Capital redemption reserve 0.5 0.5
Foreign currency translation reserve (57.3) 37.5
Hedge accounting reserve 0.8 0.2
Retained earnings 1,479.3 1,209.8
Shareholders equity 1,482.2 1,307.1
Non-controlling interests 4.5 3.2
TOTAL EQUITY 1,486.7 1,310.3
Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2014   
   
Keith Cochrane  Jon Stanton  
Director   Director 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 3 January 2014 Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 123
Notes
53 weeks 
ended  
3 January 
2014
£m
52 weeks 
ended  
28 December 
2012
£m
Continuing operations
Cash flows from operating activities 26
Cash generated from operations 473.9 398.6
Additional pension contributions paid (12.1) (7.5)
Income tax paid (71.9) (104.9)
Net cash generated from operating activities 389.9 286.2
Continuing operations
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 26 (201.2) (123.3)
Disposals of subsidiaries 26 (0.3) 22.9
Investment in joint ventures (14.0) –
Purchases of property, plant & equipment & intangible assets (108.4) (123.6)
Other proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment & intangible assets 11.1 7.3
Interest received 2.8 5.1
Dividends received from joint ventures 6.1 5.4
Net cash used in investing activities (303.9) (206.2)
Continuing operations
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of shares for equity settled share-based incentives (2.2) (3.0)
Proceeds from borrowings 312.5 786.9
Repayments of borrowings (572.0) (462.5)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition 26 (1.3) (1.9)
Settlement of derivative financial instruments (5.0) (11.0)
Interest paid (43.3) (33.4)
Proceeds from increase in non-controlling interests 0.6 1.0
Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 10 (82.6) (71.7)
Net cash (used in) generated from financing activities (393.3) 204.4
Net (decrease) increase in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations (307.3) 284.4
Cash & cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 384.2 108.6
Foreign currency translation differences (8.3) (8.8)
Cash & cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 68.6 384.2
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 124
Financial Statements
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Hedge 
accounting 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Attributable 
to equity 
holders 
of the 
Company
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 30 December 2011 26.6 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 83.5 (1.6) 974.0 1,115.4 2.1 1,117.5
Profit for the period (restated note 2) – – – – – – 313.0 313.0 0.3 313.3
Gains taken to equity on cash  
flow hedges – – – – – 1.4 – 1.4 – 1.4
Exchange losses on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (84.6) – – (84.6) (0.3) (84.9)
Exchange gains on net investment 
hedges – – – – 38.6 – – 38.6 – 38.6
Remeasurements on defined  
benefit plans (restated note 2) – – – – – – (10.8) (10.8) – (10.8)
Reclassification adjustments on cash 
flow hedges – – – – – 0.8 – 0.8 – 0.8
Tax relating to other comprehensive 
income (restated note 2) – – – – – (0.4) 2.5 2.1 – 2.1
Total net comprehensive income for 
the period (restated note 2) – – – – (46.0) 1.8 304.7 260.5 – 260.5
Proceeds from increase in 
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 1.1 1.1
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax charge – – – – – – 4.9 4.9 – 4.9
Dividends – – – – – – (71.7) (71.7) – (71.7)
Purchase of shares* – – (2.0) – – – – (2.0) – (2.0)
Exercise of LTIP awards 0.1 – 2.0 – – – (2.1) – – –
At 28 December 2012  
(restated note 2) 26.7 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 37.5 0.2 1,209.8 1,307.1 3.2 1,310.3
Profit for the period – – – – – – 334.9 334.9 0.8 335.7
Gains taken to equity on cash  
flow hedges – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Exchange losses on translation  
of foreign operations – – – – (111.3) – – (111.3) – (111.3)
Exchange gains on net investment 
hedges – – – – 16.5 – – 16.5 – 16.5
Remeasurements on defined  
benefit plans – – – – – – 8.0 8.0 – 8.0
Reclassification adjustments on cash 
flow hedges – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2
Tax relating to other  
comprehensive income – – – – – 0.3 (2.2) (1.9) – (1.9)
Total net comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – (94.8) 0.6 340.7 246.5 0.8 247.3
Proceeds from increase in  
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Cost of share-based payments 
inclusive of tax credit – – – – – – 12.6 12.6 – 12.6
Dividends – – – – – – (82.6) (82.6) – (82.6)
Purchase of shares* – – (1.4) – – – – (1.4) – (1.4)
Exercise of LTIP awards – – 1.2 – – – (1.2) – – –
At 3 January 2014 26.7 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 (57.3) 0.8 1,479.3 1,482.2 4.5 1,486.7
          
*  These shares were purchased on the open market and are held by the Appleby EBT on behalf of the Group for satisfaction of any future vesting of the deferred bonus plan.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 125
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) for the 53 weeks 
ended 3 January 2014 (‘2013’) were approved and authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 26 February 2014. 
The comparative information is presented for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 (‘2012’). For practical reasons, the Group prepares its 
financial statements to the week ending closest to the Company reference date of 31 December. The results on this basis are unlikely to be 
materially different from those that would be presented for a period of one year. The Weir Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in 
Scotland and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of The Weir Group PLC have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 3. 
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are presented in Sterling. All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million pounds (£m) except when otherwise indicated.
In order to provide the users of the financial statements with a more relevant presentation of the Group’s underlying performance, profit for 
each financial period has been analysed between:
i) profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation; and
ii) the effect of exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
Exceptional items are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and/or infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit 
separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the elements of the Group’s financial performance for the period and are presented on  
the face of the income statement to facilitate comparisons with prior periods and assessment of trends in financial performance. Exceptional items 
may include but are not restricted to: profits or losses arising on disposal or closure of businesses; the cost of significant business restructuring; 
significant impairments of intangible or tangible assets; adjustments to the fair value of acquisition related items such as contingent consideration 
and inventory; other items deemed exceptional due to their significance, size or nature; and the related exceptional taxation.
Intangibles amortisation, including impairment, has been shown separately to provide visibility over the impact of increased acquisition activity 
on intangible assets.
Further analysis of the items included in the column ‘Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation’ is provided in note 5 to the financial statements.
The accounting policies which follow are consistent with those of the previous periods except for the adoption of the following standards and 
interpretations which have not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application.
IAS 19 (Revised), ‘Employee benefits’ 
The Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and affected notes have been restated for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, to reflect changes in the calculation of pension costs 
in accordance with IAS 19 (Revised) ‘Employee Benefits’. The net charge to the Income Statement for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 
increased by £3.3m, on a pre tax basis, with a tax impact of £0.9m. Operating profit reduced by £0.5m due to the recognition of administrative 
costs, while other finance costs increased by £2.8m following the introduction of the concept of recognising net interest on the net defined 
benefit obligation in place of the interest on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets recognised under the original 
standard. The restatements have been reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and there was no impact on the 
disclosed defined benefit obligation at 28 December 2012. The additional net charge to the income statement reduces basic earnings per 
share for total operations by 1.1p to 147.5p and diluted earnings per share for total operations by 1.1p to 146.6p. The impact on the current  
year is disclosed in note 24.
Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – presentation of items of other comprehensive income 
The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income (OCI). Items that could be reclassified (or 
recycled) to profit or loss at a future point in time now have to be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified. The amendment 
affected presentation only and had no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance.
IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ 
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required  
to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted. The application  
of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group. IFRS 13 also requires specific disclosures on  
fair values, some of which replace existing disclosure requirements in other standards, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.  
The relevant disclosures are reflected in notes 13 and 30.
Several other amendments apply for the first time in 2013. However, they do not impact the Group financial statements.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 126
Financial Statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Use of estimates & judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period  
in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Details of the significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in the Financial Review on page 48 and in notes 14 and 24.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of The Weir Group PLC and its subsidiaries, and 
the Group’s share of its joint ventures’ results. The financial statements of subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting 
period as the Company using consistent accounting policies.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company, where control is the power to direct activities that significantly 
influence returns. The results of a subsidiary acquired during the period are included in the Group’s results from the effective date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are included in the Group’s results up to the effective date 
on which control is transferred out of the Group. All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented 
within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from the Company shareholders’ equity.
Joint ventures
The Group has a number of long-term contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures. These all take the form of 
agreements to share control over other entities (‘jointly controlled entities’). The Group’s interests in the results and assets and liabilities of its 
jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method.
These investments are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets less any impairment  
in value. The income statement reflects the share of results of operations of these investments after tax. Where there has been a change recognised 
directly in the investee’s equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this when applicable in the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net 
fair value of the joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the joint venture and 
is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than 
the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the joint venture’s profit or loss in the period in which the 
investment is acquired.
Foreign currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the 
balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised in the income statement except when hedge accounting is applied and for 
differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are recognised in other 
comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the period and their assets and 
liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences, including those  
on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement is determined after 
taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation. As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group 
elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences to be £nil as at 27 December 2003. Accordingly, the gain or loss on disposal of  
a foreign operation does not include currency translation differences arising before 27 December 2003.
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for  
the period.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 127
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is shown net of sales taxes, discounts and 
after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on 
dispatch of the goods, and can be reliably measured. Revenue from the sales of services and revenue from construction contracts is recognised  
by reference to the stage of completion where the outcome can be estimated reliably, otherwise it is recognised to the extent costs are incurred. 
The stage of completion of a contract is determined either by reference to the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date 
bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by reference to the completion of a physical proportion of the contract work. The basis used is 
dependent upon the nature of the underlying contract and takes into account the degree to which the physical proportion of the work is subject  
to formal customer acceptance procedures. Losses on contracts are recognised in the period when such losses become probable.
Property, plant & equipment
The Group elected to use previous UK GAAP revaluations of land and buildings, amounting to £10.5m, prior to 27 December 2003 as deemed 
cost at the date of the revaluation.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost includes borrowing 
costs for qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009. Prior to this date, the Group 
recognised all borrowing costs as an expense immediately. Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and assets under construction, is provided on a straight-line basis  
so as to charge the cost less residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, to the income statement over the expected 
useful life of the asset concerned, and is in the following ranges:
Freehold buildings, long leasehold land & buildings – 10 – 40 years
Short leasehold land & buildings – duration of lease
Plant & equipment – 3 – 20 years
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents any excess of the cost of the acquired entity over the Group’s interest in the fair 
value of the entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities determined at the date of acquisition. Acquisition costs are expensed in 
the period in which they are incurred. Goodwill in respect of an acquired subsidiary is recognised as an intangible asset. Goodwill is tested at least 
annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, the excess 
is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 27 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount at that date and is not amortised. The carrying 
amount of goodwill allocated to a cash generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit. Goodwill 
that was written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of acquired 
businesses on or after 27 December 2003.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are 
adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes  
in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost on initial recognition. An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is 
recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate 
future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably. An intangible asset with a finite life is amortised on a straight-line basis so 
as to charge its cost, which in respect of an acquired intangible asset represents its fair value at the acquisition date, to the income statement 
over its expected useful life. An intangible asset with an indefinite life is not amortised but is tested at least annually for impairment and carried 
at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset. 
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected useful life, 
not exceeding eight years. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 128
Financial Statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
The expected useful lives of acquired intangible assets are as follows:
Brand names – indefinite life
Customer relationships – 5 – 25 years
Purchased software – 4 – 8 years
Intellectual property & trade marks – 6 – 15 years
Other – up to 6 years
 
Research & development costs
All research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development of a new 
product and it is incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product has been proven, the development costs can be 
measured reliably, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the asset. Any such capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis so that it is charged to the 
income statement over the expected life of the resulting product.
Impairment of non-current assets
All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying values might be impaired. 
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite life and any capitalised development expenditure are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the 
asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. An asset’s value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be 
derived from the asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is conducted for the 
cash generating unit to which it belongs. Similarly, the recoverable amount of goodwill is determined by reference to the discounted future cash 
flows of the cash generating units to which it is allocated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill 
are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount. The carrying amount of an asset 
shall not be increased above the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in 
prior periods. Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items. Cost represents 
the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition and comprises the cost of raw materials, direct labour 
costs, other direct costs and related production overheads. Raw material cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Financial assets & liabilities
The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and fixed 
rate notes, cash and short-term deposits. The Group also has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables 
which arise directly from its operations and contingent consideration in relation to acquisitions.
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability 
is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the 
respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables, which generally are of a short dated nature, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. 
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash & cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity 
on acquisition of three months or less and bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less.  
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 129
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair 
value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount  
or premium on settlement. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the obligation 
can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Derivative financial instruments & hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to reduce its 
exposure to exchange rate movements. The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings as a hedge of its exposure to foreign exchange  
risk on its investments in foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk.  
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair value  
of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward foreign 
exchange rates and counterparty and own credit risk. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the 
present value of the estimated future cash flows based on interest rate curves, spot foreign exchange rates and counterparty and own credit 
risk. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the 
conditions specified by IAS 39 are met. Hedge accounting is applied in respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under  
IAS 39 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges,  
cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the 
increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement 
where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes 
in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in other comprehensive income rather than in the income statement. 
When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 
will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its 
initial carrying amount.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in other 
comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain  
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair 
value recognised in the income statement.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the Executive Bonus 
Scheme (EBS) and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives.
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period  
due to failure to satisfy service or performance conditions.
The EBS is determined as a percentage of the annual bonus. This percentage is matched by the Group with a share award that will vest on the 
third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continues to hold the original bonus shares awarded and continues to be employed by 
the company at the date of vesting. The EBS includes a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior employees. The fair value of 
the matching and strategic elements of the EBS is determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period. The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair value of the awards. The fair 
value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. 
The changes to the LTIP which will take effect in 2014 are described in the Directors Remuneration Policy on page 88.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has applied IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ retrospectively only to equity settled awards that were granted 
on or after 7 November 2002 and had not vested as at 1 January 2005. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 130
Financial Statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Treasury shares
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the 
original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in total comprehensive income on the purchase, sale,  
issue or cancellation of equity shares.
 
Post-employment benefits
Post-employment benefits comprise pension benefits provided to certain current and former employees in the UK, US and Canada and 
post-retirement healthcare benefits provided to certain employees in the US. 
For defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans, the annual service cost is calculated using the projected unit credit method 
and is recognised over the future service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. Current service 
cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability is recognised in finance costs. 
The finance cost recognised in the income statement in the period reflects the net interest on the net pension liability. This represents the 
change in the net pension liability resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening net 
liability, taking into account employer contributions paid into the plan, and hence reducing the net liability, during the period.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recognised immediately in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses,  
which represent differences between interest on the plan assets, experience on the benefit obligation and the effect of changes in  
actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. 
The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the benefit 
obligation, using a discount rate based on yields at the balance sheet date on appropriate high quality corporate bonds that have maturity 
dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid, 
minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date. The balance sheet amount recognised is limited to the present value  
of economic benefits which the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions. In order to calculate the 
present value of economic benefits, consideration is also given to any minimum funding requirements.
For defined contribution plans, the costs represent the Group’s contributions to the plans and these are charged to the income statement  
in the period in which they fall due.
Leases
Leases which transfer to the Group substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if lower, the present 
value of the minimum lease payments and a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under finance leases. Subsequently, the 
assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. At the inception of the lease, the lease rentals 
are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the outstanding 
liability. Subsequently, the interest element is recognised as a charge to the income statement while the capital element is applied to reduce  
the outstanding liability.
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base 
with the following exceptions:
a. deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, that, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised;
b. deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future; and
c. a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 131
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets represent tax 
recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unutilised tax losses and the carry forward of 
unused tax credits. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except if it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case it is 
recognised directly in equity.
New standards & interpretations
The International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee have issued the following 
standards and interpretations, which are considered relevant to the Group, with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)
Effective date for 
periods commencing
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 1 January 2014
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ 1 January 2014
Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance 1 January 2014
IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’ 1 January 2014
IAS 28 (revised 2011) ‘Associates and joint ventures’ 1 January 2014
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’, on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 January 2014
IAS 36 (amendment) ‘Impairment of Assets’, recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets 1 January 2014*
IAS 39 (amendment) ‘Financial Instruments’, novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting 1 January 2014*
IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014*
IAS 19 ‘Defined benefit plans’, employee contributions 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
*  Not yet adopted for use in the European Union.
The above standards and interpretations will be adopted in accordance with their effective dates and have not been adopted in these financial 
statements. The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application.
3. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power & Industrial. These three 
divisions are organised and managed separately based on the key markets served and each is treated as an operating segment and a 
reportable segment under IFRS 8. The operating and reportable segments were determined based on the reports reviewed by the Chief 
Executive which are used to make operational decisions.
The Minerals segment is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated aftermarket support for abrasive  
high wear applications used in the mining and oil sands markets. The Oil & Gas segment provides products and service solutions to upstream, 
production, transportation, refining and related industries. The Power & Industrial segment designs and manufactures valves, pumps and 
turbines as well as providing specialist support services to the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors. In prior periods,  
all other segments, disclosed as Group companies, included the results of LGE Process which supplied equipment to the liquefied petroleum 
gas marine and onshore markets. The business was sold on 28 December 2012 (note 5).
The Chief Executive assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, including impairment (‘segment result’). Finance income and expenditure and associated 
interest-bearing liabilities and derivative financial instruments are not allocated to segments as all treasury activity is managed centrally by  
the Group treasury function. The amounts provided to the Chief Executive with respect to assets and liabilities are measured in a manner 
consistent with that of the financial statements. The assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location  
of the asset. The liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment. 
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 132
Financial Statements
3. Segment information (continued)
The segment information for the reportable segments for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012  
is disclosed below.
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Total continuing operations
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 1,304.3 1,333.6 795.9 843.6 329.6 323.4 2,429.8 2,500.6
Inter-segment sales 4.4 4.3 15.7 15.3 7.3 4.0 27.4 23.6
Segment revenue 1,308.7 1,337.9 811.6 858.9 336.9 327.4 2,457.2 2,524.2
Group companies sales to external customers
– 37.7
Eliminations
(27.4) (23.6)
2,429.8 2,538.3
 
Sales to external customers – 2012 at 2013 average exchange rates
Sales to external customers 1,304.3 1,307.1 795.9 856.6 329.6 325.6 2,429.8 2,489.3
Group companies sales to external customers
– 37.7
2,429.8 2,527.0
Result (restated note 2)
Segment result before share of results  
of joint ventures 268.7 255.9 172.1 204.2 31.3 31.5 472.1 491.6
Share of results of joint ventures – – 8.4 6.4 – – 8.4 6.4
Segment result 268.7 255.9 180.5 210.6 31.3 31.5 480.5 498.0
Group companies
– 2.5
Unallocated expenses
(14.0) (15.4)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
466.5 485.1
Total exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
13.1 (19.1)
Net finance costs before exceptional items
(44.9) (41.3)
Other finance costs – retirement benefits before exceptional items
(3.5) (4.0)
Profit before tax from continuing operations
431.2 420.7
        
Segment result (restated note 2) – 2012 at 2013 average exchange rates
Segment result before share of results of 
joint ventures 268.7 253.0 172.1 207.3 31.3 31.9 472.1 492.2
Share of results of joint ventures – – 8.4 6.5 – – 8.4 6.5
Segment result  268.7 253.0 180.5 213.8 31.3 31.9 480.5 498.7
Group companies
– 2.5
Unallocated expenses
(14.0) (15.4)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
466.5 485.8
        
There are no material revenues derived from a single external customer.     
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 133
Minerals Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Total continuing operations
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets & liabilities
Intangible assets 397.0 368.4 1,109.4 974.4 101.6 109.8 1,608.0 1,452.6
Property, plant & equipment 198.7 199.1 147.2 121.6 50.9 52.2 396.8 372.9
Working capital assets 449.6 485.9 390.9 365.8 176.2 167.0 1,016.7 1,018.7
 1,045.3 1,053.4 1,647.5 1,461.8 328.7 329.0 3,021.5 2,844.2
Investments in joint ventures – – 27.1 12.0 – – 27.1 12.0
Segment assets 1,045.3 1,053.4 1,674.6 1,473.8 328.7 329.0 3,048.6 2,856.2
Unallocated assets
 112.9 426.5
Total assets
 3,161.5 3,282.7
Working capital liabilities 243.4 263.7 149.9 128.0 87.3 88.0 480.6 479.7
Group companies liabilities
– 3.4
Unallocated liabilities
 1,194.2 1,489.3
Total liabilities
 1,674.8 1,972.4
Other segment information
Segment additions to non-current assets 56.6 50.4 37.6 52.3 11.1 18.6 105.3 121.3
Unallocated additions to non-current assets
 6.3 2.3
Total additions to non-current assets
 111.6 123.6
Segment depreciation & amortisation 35.3 31.5 54.9 42.9 14.2 10.9 104.4 85.3
Unallocated depreciation & amortisation
 1.4 0.8
Total depreciation & amortisation
 105.8 86.1
Unallocated assets primarily comprise cash and short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments, income tax receivable and deferred  
tax assets as well as those assets which are used for general head office purposes. Unallocated liabilities primarily comprise interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments, income tax payable, provisions, deferred tax liabilities, contingent consideration and 
retirement benefit deficits as well as liabilities relating to general head office activities. Segment additions to non-current assets do not include 
those additions which have arisen from business combinations (note 13).
Geographical information
Geographical information in respect of revenue and non-current assets for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended  
28 December 2012 is disclosed below. Revenues are allocated based on the location to which the product is shipped. Assets are allocated 
based on the location of the assets and operations. Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 
investments in joint ventures.
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
UK
£m
USA
£m
Canada
£m
Europe  
& FSU
£m
Asia 
Pacific
£m
Australia
£m
South 
America
£m
Middle East  
& Africa
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 104.8 743.4 234.6 246.1 229.8 223.2 308.1 339.8 2,429.8
Non-current assets 102.8 1,251.5 58.1 141.7 180.3 157.5 50.2 98.2 2,040.3
         
         
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
UK
£m
USA
£m
Canada
£m
Europe  
& FSU
£m
Asia 
Pacific
£m
Australia
£m
South 
America
£m
Middle East  
& Africa
£m
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
Sales to external customers 87.7 787.1 262.5 215.4 287.9 236.0 316.3 345.4 2,538.3
Non-current assets 103.2 1,083.1 24.1 143.3 172.4 163.5 52.1 98.4 1,840.1
          The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 134
Financial Statements
3. Segment information (continued)
The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
  
2013
£m
2012
£m
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows
Original equipment 818.8 1,039.3
Aftermarket parts 1,074.4 990.8
Sales of goods 1,893.2 2,030.1
Aftermarket services 461.4 415.7
Revenue from construction contracts 75.2 92.5
Revenue 2,429.8 2,538.3
Finance income 3.0 5.2
Total revenue 2,432.8 2,543.5
  
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods or services (2012: £nil).
  
4. Revenues & expenses  
The following disclosures are given in relation to continuing operations.
  
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
A reconciliation of revenue to operating profit is as follows
Revenue 2,429.8 2,538.3
Cost of sales (1,557.2) (1,652.2)
Gross profit 872.6 886.1
Other operating income* 70.8 35.2
Selling & distribution costs (222.6) (220.8)
Administrative expenses (238.9) (238.3)
Share of results of joint ventures 8.4 6.4
Operating profit 490.3 468.6
  
* Other operating income includes £67.8m exceptional gain on release of Mathena contingent consideration (note 5) in 2013. The prior year includes £30.5m in relation to the exceptional 
gain on sale of LGE Process.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating profit is stated after charging
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,557.2 1,652.2
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment (note 11) 59.1 49.4
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 12) 46.7 36.7
Acquisition transaction costs 2.7 1.0
Other one-off costs* 5.3 8.3
Net foreign exchange losses 4.1 0.3
Net impairment of trade receivables (note 17) 5.5 3.3
  
*  Other one-off costs include restructuring, integration and aborted acquisition costs.
   
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 135
The following disclosures are given in relation to total operations.
  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Auditors remuneration
The total fees payable by the Group to Ernst & Young LLP and their associates for work performed in respect of the 
audit and other services provided to the Company and its subsidiary companies during the period are disclosed below.
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company & Group financial statements 0.4 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.3
Other assurance services 0.1 –
Corporate finance services – 0.2
Taxation advisory services – 0.1
Fees payable in respect of the Group’s pension schemes
Audit 0.1 0.1
Research & development costs
Research & development costs amount to £21.5m (2012: £23.5m) of which £17.6m (2012: £22.2m) were charged directly to cost of sales in the 
income statement and £3.9m (2012: £1.3m) were capitalised (note 12).
Operating leases
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the period were £42.1m (2012: £37.1m).
   
2013
£m
2012 
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Employee benefits expense
Wages & salaries 523.0 491.1
Social security costs 52.7 50.9
Pension costs
Defined benefit plans (note 24) 2.6 2.6
Defined benefit plans exceptional item (note 5) (2.7) –
Defined contribution plans 17.7 16.3
Share-based payments – equity settled transactions 8.7 7.5
602.0 568.4
   
2013
Number
2012
Number
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company and its subsidiaries is as follows
Minerals 7,699 7,326
Oil & Gas 3,234 2,999
Power & Industrial 2,752 2,813
Group companies 65 107
13,750 13,245
   
At 3 January 2014, the number of persons employed by the Group including those under temporary contracts was 15,220 (2012: 14,351). The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 136
Financial Statements
5. Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 
  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Recognised in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations
Intangibles amortisation (note 12) (46.7) (36.7)
Exceptional item – release of Mathena contingent consideration liability (note 13) 67.8 –
Exceptional item – pension curtailment gain (note 24) 2.7 –
Exceptional item – charging of fair value inventory uplift – (4.5)
Exceptional item – gain on sale of LGE Process – 30.5
Exceptional item – uplift in respect of contingent consideration liability – (5.8)
23.8 (16.5)
Recognised in finance costs
Exceptional item – unwind in respect of contingent consideration liability (10.7) (2.6)
(10.7) (2.6)
Recognised in arriving at profit for the period from discontinued operations
Exceptional items (note 8) – 3.3
  
The exceptional items in 2012 related to:
(i) The fair value uplift to inventory on acquisition of Seaboard and Novatech that was released to the income statement as an exceptional item 
after the inventory was sold in the year.
(ii) The gain on sale of LGE Process, disclosed within other operating income (note 4).
(iii) Uplift in the contingent consideration payable on acquisition of Weir International.
6. Finance (costs) income  
  
Finance costs  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest payable on bank loans, fixed rate notes & overdrafts (39.1) (35.7)
Losses on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss (2.9) (5.0)
Finance charges related to committed loan facilities (5.9) (5.8)
(47.9) (46.5)
Unwind of discount in respect of contingent consideration – exceptional item (note 5) (10.7) (2.6)
(58.6) (49.1)
  
Finance income  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest receivable on financial assets 1.3 0.7
Gains on financial assets & liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 1.7 4.5
3.0 5.2
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 137
7. Tax expense  
Income tax expense  
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Consolidated Income Statement
Current income tax
UK corporation tax – continuing operations (12.1) 0.5
Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.2 (2.6)
UK corporation tax (7.9) (2.1)
Foreign tax – continuing operations (81.2) (110.2)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.0 3.1
Total current income tax (88.1) (109.2)
Deferred income tax
Origination & reversal of temporary differences – continuing operations (1.9) (0.2)
Adjustment to estimated recoverable deferred tax assets (1.2) (1.6)
Effect of changes in tax rates (1.3) (1.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (3.0) 1.4
Total deferred tax* (7.4) (1.5)
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (95.5) (110.7)
* Includes £3.2m of deferred tax debit relating to foreign tax (2012: £1.3m credit).
The total income tax expense is disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows.
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Tax expense – continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (107.5) (123.3)
 – exceptional items (0.5) 1.5
 – intangibles amortisation 12.5 11.1
Total income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement (95.5) (110.7)
   
Current tax for 2013 has been reduced by £nil (2012: £nil) due to the utilisation of deferred tax assets previously not recognised.
   
The total deferred tax included in the income tax expense is detailed in note 23. 
   
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Current tax on pension contributions 3.9 1.8
Deferred tax – origination & reversal of temporary differences (6.1) 0.7
Tax (charge) credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefits (2.2) 2.5
Deferred tax credit (charge) on hedge losses 0.3 (0.4)
Tax credit (charge) in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (1.9) 2.1
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.8 (2.6)
Current tax on share-based payments 3.1 –
Tax credit (charge) in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 3.9 (2.6) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 138
Financial Statements
7. Tax expense (continued)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period is less than the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax
across the Group of 29.7% (2012: 30.2%). The differences are reconciled below.
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 431.2 420.7
Profit before tax from discontinued operations – 3.3
Accounting profit before tax 431.2 424.0
At the weighted average of standard rates of corporation tax across the Group of 29.7% (2012: 30.2%) 128.2 128.2
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax (5.2) (0.5)
– deferred tax 3.0 (1.4)
Joint ventures (1.2) (1.2)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.2 1.6
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 5.6 4.6
Permanent differences (16.9) (15.4)
Effect of changes in tax rates 1.1 1.1
Exceptional items ineligible for tax (20.3) 1.1
Gains exempt from tax – (7.4)
At effective tax rate of 22.1% (2012: 26.1%) 95.5 110.7
8. Discontinued operations
There were no disposals of core businesses during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 or the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012. The profit 
arising from discontinued operations of £3.3m in 2012 was as a result of the release of unutilised provisions relating to prior year disposals on 
expiration of the tax warranty periods.
Earnings per share from discontinued operations were as follows.
 
2013
pence
2012
pence
Basic n/a 1.6
Diluted n/a 1.5
These earnings per share figures were derived by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company from discontinued 
operations of £3.3m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts shown in note 9.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 139
9. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit 
attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period (adjusted for 
the effects of dilutive share awards).
The following reflects the profit and share data used in the calculation of earnings per share.
2013
2012
Restated
(note 2)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company
Total operations* (£m) 334.9 313.0
Continuing operations* (£m) 334.9 309.7
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* (£m) 309.8 316.2
Weighted average share capital
Basic earnings per share (number of shares, million) 213.0 212.2
Diluted earnings per share (number of shares, million) 213.8 213.5
The difference between the weighted average share capital for the purposes of the basic and the diluted earnings per share calculations is 
analysed as follows.
2013
Shares 
Million
2012
Shares 
Million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 213.0 212.2
Effect of dilution: LTIP and deferred bonus awards 0.8 1.3
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 213.8 213.5
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company used in the calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation is calculated as follows.
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations* 334.9 309.7
Exceptional items & intangibles amortisation net of tax (25.1) 6.5
Net profit attributable to equity holders from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 309.8 316.2
2013
pence
2012
Restated
(note 2)
pence
Basic earnings per share:
Total operations* 157.2 147.5
Continuing operations* 157.2 145.9
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 145.4 149.0
Diluted earnings per share:
Total operations* 156.6 146.6
Continuing operations* 156.6 145.1
Continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* 144.9 148.1
* Adjusted for £0.8m (2012: £0.3m) in respect of non-controlling interests.
There have been no share options (2012: nil) exercised between the reporting date and the date of signing of these financial statements. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 140
Financial Statements
10. Dividends paid & proposed
2013
£m
2012
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2012: 30.0p (2011: 25.8p) 63.8 54.8
Interim dividend for 2013: 8.8p (2012: 8.0p) 18.8 16.9
82.6 71.7
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2013: 33.2p (2012: 30.0p) 70.8 63.8
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares held, at the date the financial statements were 
approved and authorised for issue. 
The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between the date of approval of the report and 
financial statements and the record date for the final dividend.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 141
11. Property, plant & equipment   
Land & 
buildings
£m
Plant & 
equipment
£m
Total 
property, 
plant & 
equipment
£m
Cost
At 30 December 2011 125.9 382.9 508.8
Additions 27.9 87.4 115.3
Acquisitions 1.2 6.6 7.8
Disposals (5.5) (18.4) (23.9)
Reclassifications to intangible assets (note 12) – (0.2) (0.2)
Reclassifications (0.2) 0.2 –
Exchange adjustment (4.0) (13.6) (17.6)
At 28 December 2012 145.3 444.9 590.2
Additions 17.4 73.0 90.4
Acquisitions 6.9 19.5 26.4
Disposals (3.3) (20.6) (23.9)
Reclassifications from intangible assets (note 12) – 1.0 1.0
Reclassifications 4.1 (4.1) –
Exchange adjustment (10.8) (33.6) (44.4)
At 3 January 2014 159.6 480.1 639.7
Accumulated depreciation & impairment
At 30 December 2011 32.8 157.1 189.9
Depreciation charge for the period 4.7 44.7 49.4
Disposals (2.4) (15.1) (17.5)
Exchange adjustment (0.9) (4.7) (5.6)
At 28 December 2012 34.2 182.0 216.2
Depreciation charge for the period 6.1 53.0 59.1
Disposals (1.0) (15.9) (16.9)
Reclassifications from intangible assets (note 12) – 0.4 0.4
Reclassifications 0.7 (0.7) –
Exchange adjustment (2.1) (15.7) (17.8)
At 3 January 2014 37.9 203.1 241.0
Net book value at 30 December 2011 93.1 225.8 318.9
Net book value at 28 December 2012 111.1 262.9 374.0
Net book value at 3 January 2014 121.7 277.0 398.7
The carrying value of buildings held under finance leases is £1.3m (2012: £1.7m). The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance 
leases is £0.4m (2012: £0.5m). Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease liabilities.
The carrying amount of assets under construction included in plant and equipment is £29.2m (2012: £52.9m). The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 142
Financial Statements
12. Intangible assets        
Goodwill
£m
Brand 
names
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Purchased 
software
£m
Intellectual 
property & 
trade marks
£m
Development 
costs
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 30 December 2011 884.1 172.3 345.7 30.5 55.6 3.3 16.5 1,508.0
Additions – – – 6.0 – 1.3 1.0 8.3
Acquisitions 57.0 4.5 53.4 – 4.7 – 1.8 121.4
Disposals – – – (2.5) – – (0.7) (3.2)
Reclassifications to property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Exchange adjustment (32.2) (7.1) (14.6) (1.0) (2.3) (0.1) (0.9) (58.2)
At 28 December 2012 908.9 169.7 384.5 33.2 58.0 4.5 17.7 1,576.5
Additions – – – 6.6 10.4 3.9 0.3 21.2
Acquisitions 95.5 9.7 129.2 – 0.2 – – 234.6
Disposals – – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Reclassifications to property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – (1.0) – – – (1.0)
Reclassifications – – – (0.7) – 0.7 – –
Exchange adjustment (32.6) (4.2) (11.6) (1.8) (1.7) (0.7) (1.0) (53.6)
At 3 January 2014 971.8 175.2 502.1 35.4 66.9 8.4 17.0 1,776.8
Accumulated amortisation & impairment
At 30 December 2011 – – 45.6 18.3 15.0 0.2 13.8 92.9
Amortisation charge for the period – – 24.0 3.4 5.6 0.1 3.6 36.7
Disposals – – – (2.3) – – (0.7) (3.0)
Exchange adjustment – – (2.2) (0.6) (0.7) – (0.7) (4.2)
At 28 December 2012 – – 67.4 18.8 19.9 0.3 16.0 122.4
Amortisation charge for the period – – 37.0 3.8 4.4 0.4 1.1 46.7
Disposals – – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Reclassifications to property,  
plant & equipment (note 11) – – – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Reclassifications – – 1.0 0.4 – – (1.4) –
Exchange adjustment – – (3.0) (1.1) (0.7) – (0.7) (5.5)
At 3 January 2014 – – 102.4 20.6 23.6 0.7 15.0 162.3
Net book value at 30 December 2011 884.1 172.3 300.1 12.2 40.6 3.1 2.7 1,415.1
Net book value at 28 December 2012 908.9 169.7 317.1 14.4 38.1 4.2 1.7 1,454.1
Net book value at 3 January 2014 971.8 175.2 399.7 14.8 43.3 7.7 2.0 1,614.5
The increase to goodwill of £95.5m during 2013 is represented by the current year acquisitions of Mathena and R Wales (note 13).
Brand names have been assigned an indefinite useful life and as such are not amortised. The carrying value of £175.2m (2012: £169.7m) is 
tested annually for impairment (note 14). The brand name value comprises the brands of Weir Linatex, Weir BDK, Weir American Hydro, Weir 
Warman, Weir SPM, Weir Gabbioneta, Weir Multiflo, Weir Novatech, Weir Mathena and Weir Wales all of which are considered to be market 
leaders in their respective markets.
    
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 143
The allocation of significant brand names is as follows.    
Brand Names
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
Weir Gabbioneta 5.6 5.6
Weir Linatex 34.7 35.3
Weir Mathena 7.2 –
Weir Seaboard 29.8 30.3
Weir SPM 28.0 28.4
Weir Warman 50.5 51.4
Other 19.4 18.7
175.2 169.7
The allocation of customer relationships and the remaining amortisation period of these assets is as follows.
    
Remaining amortisation  
period Customer relationships
2013
Years
2012
Years
2013
£m
2012
£m
Weir Seaboard 14 15 130.2 142.0
Weir Novatech 12 13 44.1 48.9
Weir SPM 18 19 76.6 82.4
Weir Mathena 12 – 99.1 –
Other Up to 17 Up to 18 49.7 43.8
399.7 317.1
    
The amortisation charge for the period is included in the income statement as follows.    
    
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost of sales 2.0 2.8
Selling & distribution costs 0.6 0.4
Administrative expenses 44.1 33.5
Amortisation charge for the period 46.7 36.7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 144
Financial Statements
13. Business combinations
On 31 December 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the voting shares of Mathena, Inc (‘Weir Mathena’) for a cash 
consideration of $247m (£153m) with a maximum future payment of $145m payable over two years. Of this potential future payable, $120m was 
contingent consideration and $25m was an employee benefit expense which at the period end is no longer expected to fall due. The contingent 
consideration is discussed in further detail below. Based in El Reno, Oklahoma, Weir Mathena is a leading provider of pressure control rental 
equipment and services for onshore oil and gas drilling applications and provides a strong strategic fit with Weir Seaboard in the pressure control 
market and supports the expansion of Weir’s flow back services. The fair values of Weir Mathena are disclosed in the table below. The fair values 
are final following the completion of the fair value exercise in respect of each class of asset. There are certain intangible assets included in the 
£64.5m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. These items include anticipated 
business growth, intellectual property, synergies and an assembled workforce.
During the period the Group also acquired 100% of the voting shares of the R Wales group of companies (‘Weir Wales’), 100% of the voting 
shares of Aspir Pty Limited in Australia, the business and assets of the Cheong foundry in Malaysia, and the assets of a heavy bay foundry in 
South Africa. The combined consideration for these acquisitions was £55.7m, with an expected contingent consideration of £1.6m. The fair 
values of these acquisitions are disclosed in the table below and are final following the completion of a fair value exercise in respect of each 
class of asset for each acquisition. There are certain intangible assets included in the £31.0m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually 
separated and reliably measured due to their nature. These items include anticipated business growth, synergies and an assembled workforce.
   
Mathena
2013
£m
Others
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Property, plant & equipment 19.7 6.7 26.4
Inventories 0.7 2.0 2.7
Intangible assets
 – customer relationships 108.6 20.6 129.2
 – brand name 7.4 2.3 9.7
 – intellectual property – 0.2 0.2
Trade & other receivables 11.2 3.5 14.7
Cash & cash equivalents 3.3 3.2 6.5
Interest-bearing loans & borrowings (1.3) (0.2) (1.5)
Trade & other payables (1.9) (5.9) (7.8)
Provisions (0.4) (0.4) (0.8)
Deferred tax – (5.7) (5.7)
Fair value of net assets 147.3 26.3 173.6
Goodwill arising on acquisition 64.5 31.0 95.5
Total consideration 211.8 57.3 269.1
Cash consideration 153.0 55.7 208.7
Contingent consideration 60.1 1.6 61.7
Settlement of external debt of subsidiaries on acquisition (1.3) – (1.3)
Total consideration 211.8 57.3 269.1
The total net cash outflow on current year acquisitions was as follows:
 – cash paid (153.0) (55.7) (208.7)
 – cash and cash equivalents acquired 3.3 3.2 6.5
Total cash outflow (note 26) (149.7) (52.5) (202.2)
Together, Weir Mathena and the other acquisitions contributed £78.6m to revenue and £16.4m to operating profit (including exceptional items 
and intangibles amortisation) in the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014. The contribution of the individual acquisitions to revenue and profit for  
the period from continuing operations after exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of the Group was not material and so has not  
been separately disclosed. If the acquisitions had occurred at the start of 2013 the combined revenue and profit for the period from acquired 
operations after exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, would not have been materially different from the results disclosed in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
The fair values for Weir Novatech, Weir Seaboard and Weir International were finalised in the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended  
28 December 2012. The 2012 cash flows in relation to these acquisitions are disclosed in note 26.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 145
Contingent consideration
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner of Mathena Inc, a maximum amount of $120m was agreed to be payable to the 
former owners contingent on the achievement of specific profit growth targets over 2013 and 2014. At the date of acquisition, the full liability  
of £60.1m was recognised on a discounted basis, and the unwind of the discount of £8.6m was recognised as an exceptional item during the 
period. The balance recorded was based on vendor forecasts of discounted cash flows at the date of acquisition and reflected management 
expectations of short term growth in the market. During the second half of the period, the continuation of the depressed natural gas price 
resulted in certain customers reducing their gas drilling activity and this impacted the short term forecasts for the business to the extent  
that the contingent consideration liability has reduced to nil. The adjustment to release the contingent consideration liability of £67.8m,  
after allowing for exchange movements in the period, is recorded as an exceptional item in the Income Statement. 
The acquisition of Weir International in 2011 included an earn out based on EBITDA achieved in 2013 and 2014, with further EBITDA targets 
also stretching out to 2019. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at the date of acquisition was £13.9m based on an 
assessment of the probability of possible outcomes discounted to net present value. The range of possible outcomes on an undiscounted 
basis is between zero and £45m.
As at 29 December 2012, the key performance indicators of Weir International highlighted that it is highly probable that the expected EBITDA 
levels will be achieved and the contingent liability was uplifted accordingly as per note 5. There has been no change to this view during the  
53 week period ended 3 January 2014, therefore, the contingent consideration continues to reflect this position, with only the unwind of the 
discount being recognised through the Income Statement in the period.
A significant increase (decrease) in the EBITDA of Mathena Inc or Weir International would result in higher (lower) fair value of the contingent 
consideration liability, while a significant increase (decrease) in the discount rate would result in lower (higher) fair value of the liability.  
The discount rates applied in the fair value calculations were 9.0% for Weir International and 8.7% for Weir Mathena.
A reconciliation of fair value measurement of the contingent consideration liability is provided below.
£m
Opening balance as at 28 December 2012 24.5
Liability arising on business combinations 61.7
Fair value changes in profit or loss (67.8)
Exchange movements in the period (1.1)
Contingent consideration paid (0.3)
Unwind of discount 10.7
Closing balance as at 3 January 2014 27.7
The contingent consideration in relation to other acquisitions is considered to be immaterial for further disclosure.
The contingent consideration liability for Mathena Inc is due for final measurement at the end of 2014, while the contingent consideration 
liability for Weir International is due for final measurement and payment to the former shareholders in 2019.
14. Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives
Goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated at acquisition to cash 
generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
During the period, the Group completed a review of its cash generating units (CGUs) to reflect: (i) recent changes to the management of certain 
cash inflows as a result of increased collaboration across businesses, in part due to the realisation of revenue and cost synergies arising from  
the successful integration of acquisitions of recent periods; (ii) changes to the internal and external reporting structure of the Group’s operations; 
and (iii) the allocation of recent acquisitions to CGUs on joining the Group.
The review resulted in four primary CGUs; Minerals, Pressure Pumping, Pressure Control and Gabbioneta, plus a further seven which are not 
significant for separate disclosure and are therefore grouped within ‘Other’. This replaces the previous structure which comprised Warman, 
SPM, Seaboard and Gabbioneta, plus twelve individually immaterial CGUs within ‘Other’.
The acquisitions during 2013, as described in note 13, have been allocated to these CGUs. Mathena has been included within the Pressure 
Control CGU, while R Wales, Cheong and Aspir have been added to the Minerals CGU.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 146
Financial Statements
14. Impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives (continued)
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives has been allocated as per the table below.
     
Goodwill
2013
£m
Intangibles*
2013
£m
Goodwill
2012
£m
Intangibles*
2012
£m
Weir Pressure Pumping 279.3 33.2 284.3 33.7
Weir Pressure Control 321.9 37.1 262.7 30.3
Weir Gabbioneta 59.7 5.6 58.9 5.6
Weir Minerals 239.6 90.7 230.5 90.6
Other 71.3 8.6 72.5 9.5
971.8 175.2 908.9 169.7
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives were previously allocated as per the table below.
Goodwill
2012
£m
Intangibles*
2012
£m
Weir SPM 223.0 28.5
Weir Seaboard 262.7 30.3
Weir Gabbioneta 58.9 5.6
Warman companies 221.0 86.6
Other 143.3 18.7
908.9 169.7
* Intangible assets with indefinite lives (brand names).
A description of each of the CGUs is provided below along with a summary of the key drivers of revenue growth and EBIT margin. 
Weir Pressure Pumping
Weir Pressure Pumping includes the Weir SPM, Weir Novatech and Weir Mesa brands. Weir Pressure Pumping is a supplier of oil and gas well 
service pumps, associated flow control equipment and services to the oil and gas production industry. Demand for Weir Pressure Pumping 
products and services is closely related to the number of conventional and unconventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling rigs which is in 
turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels. Independent forecasts of North American oil and gas well drilling activity, 
which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These 
independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2013.
Weir Pressure Control
Weir Pressure Control includes the Weir Seaboard and Weir Mathena brands. Weir Pressure Control is a supplier of oil and gas wellhead 
solutions, flowback services and associated rental equipment to the oil and gas production industry. A large proportion of the business’ 
revenues are generated in North America with demand being closely related to the number of conventional oil drilling rigs and gas well drilling 
rigs in operation which is in turn dependent upon oil and natural gas prices and storage levels. Independent forecasts of North American oil 
and gas well drilling activity, which take into account forecast oil and natural gas prices and storage levels, have been used to derive revenue 
growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2013.
Weir Minerals
Weir Minerals includes the Weir Warman, Weir Linatex, Weir Multiflo and Weir Wales brands. Weir Minerals companies supply pumps and 
associated equipment and services to all global markets. The key drivers for revenues are (i) levels of mining capital expenditure which drives 
demand for original equipment and (ii) levels of actual mining activity which drives demand for spare parts and service. Independent forecasts 
of mining capital expenditure and activity have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared 
during the final quarter of 2013.
Weir Gabbioneta
Weir Gabbioneta is a supplier of heavy duty process applications to oil and gas refinery, petro-chemical and power generation industries. The key 
drivers for revenues are capital expenditure within oil refinery and petro-chemical industries. Independent forecasts of expenditure in these 
sectors have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions. These independent forecasts were prepared during the final quarter of 2013.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 147
Other 
The amounts included in Other are not considered individually significant. The main movements in Other are the reallocation of Novatech, 
acquired in 2012, and Mesa, acquired in 2008, to the Weir Pressure Pumping CGU.
The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that 
these might be impaired. The basis of the impairment tests for the four primary CGUs including key assumptions are set out in the table below.
CGU
Basis of
valuation
Period of
forecast
Discount
rate
1
Real
growth
2
Key
assumptions Source
Weir Pressure Pumping Value in use 5 years 12.2% (2012:12.2%) 1.5% (2012:1.2%)
Revenue growth
EBIT margins
External forecast
Historic experience
Weir Pressure Control Value in use 5 years 12.2% (2012:12.2%) 1.5% (2012:1.2%)
Revenue growth 
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience 
Weir Gabbioneta Value in use 5 years 13.6% (2012:14.2%) 1.5% (2012:1.2%)
Revenue growth
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience
Weir Minerals Value in use 5 years 14.7% (2012:13.9%) 1.5% (2012:1.7%)
Revenue growth
EBIT margins
External forecast 
Historic experience
1
 Discount rate
The discount rates presented above reflect the pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in the most appropriate geographic 
region. The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt financing and the pre-tax cost of equity finance. In the main the WACCs 
in mature economies have remained relatively stable compared to 2012 due to an increase in government bond yields being largely offset by 
the reduction in the cost of equity. The discount rates for emerging markets have broadly decreased, directly linked to movement in the yields 
on Government bonds. Government bond yields in Italy have decreased as local credit risks have reduced, the reduction visible in the Weir 
Gabbioneta WACC. A change in the cash flow profile in Weir Minerals towards a higher proportion from emerging markets with higher WACCs 
drives the small increase in the Weir Minerals WACC, with the real growth rate declining in line with lower growth rates in emerging markets.
2
 Real growth
Real growth beyond the five year forecast period of 1.5%, a 30 bps increase on 2012, driven by the majority of mature economies exiting the 
recession of the previous two years.
EBIT margins
EBIT margins have been forecast based on historic levels taking cognisance of the likely impact of changing economic environments and 
competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of associated management actions on costs.
Sensitivity analysis
Base case forecasts show significant headroom above carrying value for each of the CGUs. There were no indicators of impairment under  
the previous CGU structure either.
Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for each CGU to assess the impact of any reasonable possible change in key assumptions. There is no 
reasonably possible change that would cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.
15. Investments in joint ventures     
The significant investments in joint ventures are as follows.     
     
£m
At 30 December 2011 11.4
Share of results 6.4
Share of dividends (5.4)
Exchange adjustment (0.4)
At 28 December 2012 12.0
Additions 14.0
Share of results 8.4
Share of dividends (6.1)
Exchange adjustment (1.2)
At 3 January 2014 27.1
      The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 148
Financial Statements
15. Investments in joint ventures (continued)
Details of the Group’s share of the balance sheets, revenue and profits of its joint ventures are given below.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Share of joint ventures balance sheets
Goodwill 11.8 3.2
Current assets 19.9 12.0
Non-current assets 3.3 2.7
Current liabilities (6.2) (4.3)
Non-current liabilities (1.7) (1.6)
Net assets 27.1 12.0
Share of joint ventures revenue & profits
Revenue 36.8 23.5
Cost of sales (22.9) (13.5)
Selling & distribution costs (2.6) (0.9)
Administrative expenses (1.5) (1.6)
Income tax expense (1.4) (1.1)
Profit after tax 8.4 6.4
The Group’s significant investments in joint ventures are listed on page 190.
16. Inventories          
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials 150.8 162.3
Work in progress 112.8 94.7
Finished goods 221.4 255.7
485.0 512.7
     
17. Trade & other receivables     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 437.9 424.0
Allowance for doubtful debts (15.4) (12.6)
422.5 411.4
Other debtors 22.8 24.5
Sales tax receivable 11.4 12.0
Accrued income 21.8 13.1
Prepayments 18.6 17.2
497.1 478.2
     
The average credit period on sales of goods is 63 days (2012: 59 days).
Analysis of trade receivables         
2013
£m
2012
£m
Neither impaired nor past due 286.6 309.9
Past due but not impaired 135.9 101.5
Impaired 15.4 12.6
437.9 424.0
     
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 149
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables     
     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Up to 3 months 100.8 74.2
Between 3 & 6 months 21.1 14.5
More than 6 months 14.0 12.8
135.9 101.5
     
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts      
2013
£m
2012
£m
Balance at the beginning of the period (12.6) (13.9)
Impairment losses recognised on receivables* (7.1) (4.2)
Amounts written off as uncollectable 1.5 2.6
Amounts recovered during the period 0.3 0.4
Impairment losses reversed 1.6 2.0
Exchange adjustment 0.9 0.5
Balance at the end of the period (15.4) (12.6)
     
* 2012 includes a fair value adjustment in relation to the Weir Seaboard acquisition of £1.1m adjusted against goodwill.
Ageing of impaired trade receivables          
2013
£m
2012
£m
Up to 3 months 3.2 1.4
Between 3 & 6 months 0.8 1.0
More than 6 months 11.4 10.2
15.4 12.6
18. Construction contracts   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Gross amount due from customers for contract work (included in current assets) 28.3 21.7
Gross amount due to customers for contract work (included in current liabilities) (12.1) (13.7)
16.2 8.0
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 94.4 114.7
Less: progress billings (78.2) (106.7)
16.2 8.0
The amount of retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £nil (2012: £nil) and the amount of advances received from 
customers for contract work amounted to £4.9m (2012: £2.5m). The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 150
Financial Statements
19. Cash & short-term deposits     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash at bank & in hand 70.9 228.0
Short-term deposits 8.2 163.1
79.1 391.1
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash & cash equivalents comprise the following:
Cash & short-term deposits 79.1 391.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (note 20) (10.5) (6.9)
68.6 384.2
Cash at bank & in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods  
of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective 
short-term deposit rates.
20. Interest-bearing loans & borrowings     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts 8.1 3.9
Short-term borrowings 2.4 3.0
10.5 6.9
Bank loans 15.8 58.3
Obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.2 0.2
26.5 65.4
Non-current
Bank loans 40.3 242.7
Fixed rate notes 759.0 771.4
Obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.3 0.5
799.6 1,014.6
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 151
Bank loans Maturity Interest basis
Weighted average  
interest rate
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
%
2012
%
Revolving credit facility
United States dollar variable rate loans 2014 US$ LIBOR – 1.20 – 148.0
United States dollar variable rate loans 2018 US$ LIBOR 0.97 – 39.9 –
Seaboard acquisition finance
United States dollar variable rate amortising term loan 2014 US$ LIBOR – 2.08 – 152.9
Other
Uncommitted facility loan 2014 £ LIBOR 0.82 – 15.8 –
United States dollar buyer credit facility 2015 US$ LIBOR 2.24 – 0.4 –
Indian rupee term loan 2013 FIXED – 13.75 – 0.1
56.1 301.0
Less: current instalments due on bank loans
United States dollar variable rate amortising term loan 2014 US$ LIBOR – (58.2)
Uncommitted facility loan 2014 £ LIBOR (15.8) –
Indian rupee term loan 2013 FIXED – (0.1)
Non-current bank loans 40.3 242.7
Fixed rate notes Maturity Interest basis
Weighted average  
interest rate
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
%
2012
%
Private placement
Sterling fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.58 4.58 12.0 12.0
United States dollar fixed rate notes 2015 FIXED 4.20 4.20 54.8 55.7
Sterling fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.36 5.36 43.0 42.9
United States dollar fixed rate notes 2018 FIXED 5.03 5.03 42.6 43.3
United States dollar fixed rate notes 2019 FIXED 3.69 3.69 127.5 129.7
United States dollar fixed rate notes 2022 FIXED 4.27 4.27 357.8 364.3
United States dollar fixed rate notes 2023 FIXED 4.34 4.34 121.3 123.5
Non-current fixed rate notes 759.0 771.4
US$ LIBOR is the United States dollar London Inter Bank Offer Rate. The weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over 
and above the interest basis. 
The disclosures above represent the interest profile and currency profile of financial liabilities before the impact of derivative financial instruments.
During July 2013, the Group repaid the existing US$300m amortising term loan and refinanced the US$800m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility. These facilities have been replaced with a new 5 year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility. At 3 January 2014 US$70m  
was drawn under the new revolving credit facility. Total unamortised issue costs at 3 January 2014 were £4.9m (2012: £6.2m).
On 16 February 2012 the Group issued US dollar denominated fixed rate notes via a Private Placement to US investors totalling US$1bn.  
The notes were US$210m of seven year, US$590m of ten year and US$200m of eleven year notes. The average coupon payable is 4.16%. 
Following this issue, the Group repaid in full the US$380m bridging loan undertaken in 2011 to fund the Weir Seaboard acquisition.  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 152
Financial Statements
21. Trade & other payables     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Trade payables 272.9 281.5
Other creditors 18.8 13.8
Other taxes & social security costs 12.9 18.0
Accruals 100.7 105.1
Contingent consideration 5.3 0.1
Deferred income 66.2 67.3
476.8 485.8
Non-current
Other payables – 1.9
Contingent consideration 22.4 24.4
22.4 26.3
22. Provisions     
Warranties 
& onerous 
sales 
contracts
£m
Employee 
related
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
warranty & 
indemnity
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 28 December 2012 34.6 27.1 1.7 6.2 69.6
Additions 14.4 2.9 – 5.6 22.9
Acquisitions 0.6 – – 0.2 0.8
Utilised (14.7) (2.5) (0.4) (7.4) (25.0)
Unutilised (6.3) (3.6) – (1.4) (11.3)
Exchange adjustment (0.8) (1.4) – (0.2) (2.4)
At 3 January 2014 27.8 22.5 1.3 3.0 54.6
Current 2013 21.7 3.7 1.3 2.2 28.9
Non-current 2013 6.1 18.8 – 0.8 25.7
27.8 22.5 1.3 3.0 54.6
Current 2012 26.7 3.9 0.7 5.1 36.4
Non-current 2012 7.9 23.2 1.0 1.1 33.2
34.6 27.1 1.7 6.2 69.6
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 153
Warranties and onerous sales contracts
Provision has been made in respect of actual warranty and contract penalty claims on goods sold and services provided and allowance has 
been made for potential warranty claims based on past experience for goods and services sold with a warranty guarantee. It is expected that 
all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within five years of the balance sheet date. Provision has been made in respect of sales 
contracts entered into for the sale of goods in the normal course of business where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under  
the contracts exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contracts. Provision is made immediately when it becomes 
apparent that expected costs will exceed the expected benefits of the contract. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred 
within one year of the balance sheet date.
Employee related
Employee related provisions arise from legal obligations and asbestosis claims and are based on management’s best estimate of the likely 
costs. It is expected that the costs will be incurred in the period up to 2025.
Discontinued operations warranty & indemnity
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations include provision for warranty and indemnity exposures under asset and share sale agreements. 
The provision as at 3 January 2014 is based on management’s current best estimate of the remaining liabilities. The actual outcome may differ 
and, in some cases, this may be dependent on the outcome of legal proceedings. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred 
within one year of the balance sheet date.
Other
Other provisions relate to an environmental clean up programme in the United States for a company acquired in 1992 and various other legal 
claims and exposures across the Group. The environmental provision is based on management’s current best estimate of the expected costs 
under the programme. It is expected that these costs will be incurred in the period up to 2019.
23. Deferred tax
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred income tax assets
Post-employment benefits 15.7 23.0
Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 13.8 3.0
Intangible assets – 0.6
Untaxed reserves 47.0 65.0
Offset against liabilities (59.3) (61.2)
Deferred income tax assets 17.2 30.4
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (49.4) (31.6)
Overseas tax on unremitted earnings (24.3) (24.1)
Intangible assets (148.0) (154.9)
Other temporary differences (3.1) (13.1)
Offset against assets 59.3 61.2
Deferred income tax liabilities (165.5) (162.5)
Net deferred income tax liability (148.3) (132.1) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 154
Financial Statements
23. Deferred tax (continued)
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the period was as follows.
Post 
employment 
benefits
£m
Accelerated 
depreciation 
for tax 
purposes
£m
Overseas 
tax on 
unremitted 
earnings
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Untaxed 
reserves 
& other 
temporary 
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 30 December 2011 23.0 (19.9) (27.1) (147.3) 60.7 (110.6)
Acquisitions – (2.2) – (21.4) 0.6 (23.0)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (note 7) (0.5) (7.6) 3.0 8.3 (4.7) (1.5)
Credited (charged) to equity 0.7 – – – (3.1) (2.4)
Exchange adjustment (0.2) 1.1 – 6.1 (1.6) 5.4
At 28 December 2012 (restated note 2) 23.0 (28.6) (24.1) (154.3) 51.9 (132.1)
Acquisitions – (0.1) – (5.8) 0.2 (5.7)
(Charged) credited to the income statement (note 7) (1.2) (7.9) (2.0) 9.7 (6.0) (7.4)
(Charged) credited to equity (6.1) – – – 0.8 (5.3)
Exchange adjustment – 1.1 1.8 2.5 (3.2) 2.2
At 3 January 2014 15.7 (35.5) (24.3) (147.9) 43.7 (148.3)
Untaxed reserves primarily relate to temporarily disallowed inventory/debtor provisions and accruals/provisions for liabilities where the tax 
allowance is deferred until the cash expense occurs.
Deferred tax asset balances for unused tax losses of £4.9m (2012: £4.5m) have not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient 
evidence that these assets will be recoverable. These assets will be recovered when future tax charges are sufficient to absorb these tax 
benefits. Deferred tax asset balances for capital losses in the UK amounting to £5.8m (2012: £9.8m) have not been recognised but would  
be available in the event of future capital gains being incurred by the Group.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments
A deferred tax liability of £24.3m (2012: £24.1m) has been recognised in respect of taxes on the unremitted earnings of the South American and 
Canadian subsidiaries. As at 3 January 2014, this is the only recognised deferred tax liability in respect of taxes on unremitted earnings as the 
Group does not foresee a distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries or joint ventures which would result in a reversal of deferred 
tax. The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been 
recognised, aggregate to £1,513.2m (2012: £1,367 .0m).
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
A number of changes which reduce future UK corporation tax rates were announced in the UK Budget Statement of 20 March 2013. Following 
on from this, legislation was enacted on 2 July 2013 such that the main rate of UK corporation tax will be 21% from April 2014 and 20% from  
April 2015. Consequently, deferred tax has been provided on UK temporary differences at 20% (2012: 23%).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 155
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans
The Group has five main defined benefit pension plans in the UK and North America (four from 2014 onwards following a merger of arrangements 
in the United States). All defined benefit plans are closed to new members. The most significant of the defined benefit plans are the two funded 
UK plans.
UK Plans
In the UK, the Group has two funded defined benefit plans (Main plan and Executive plan) and an unfunded retirement benefit plan for retired 
executive directors. The Group operates a defined contribution plan for new hires. Contributions to the defined contribution arrangements are 
in addition to those set out below and are charged directly to profit and loss. 
For the defined benefit plans, benefits are related to service and final salary. Contributory salary in respect of the Group’s Main UK plan is 
subject to capped increases, with the cap being in line with RPI inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum. Following a consultation process 
which ended in August 2013, the Main UK plan will close to future accrual of benefits effective from 30 June 2015, resulting in a curtailment 
gain of £2.7m being recognised in the period.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Main plan is around 16 years and from the Executive plan is around 
11 years.
The current funding target for the UK plans is to maintain assets equal to the value of the accrued benefits based on projected salaries where 
relevant (subject to the cap above for the Main plan). The Main UK plan holds insurance policies in respect of a significant proportion of 
deferred and retired pensioners. 
The regulatory framework in the UK requires the Trustees and Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and then to 
agree upon the necessary contributions required to recover any deficit at the valuation date. There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience 
could lead to a requirement for the Group to make considerable contributions to recover any deficit. This risk is significantly reduced for the Main 
UK plan through the significant insurance policies held by the plan.
North American Plans
The Group also sponsors a number of funded defined benefit pension plans in the United States and Canada and certain unfunded post-
employment healthcare benefits to senior employees in the United States. 
These plans combined make up 4% of the Group’s pension and other post-employment benefit plan commitments and 2% of the Group’s 
total associated assets. The weighted average duration of these plans is around 11 years.
Assumptions
The principal actuarial assumptions used for accounting purposes reflect prevailing market conditions in each of the countries in which the 
Group operates and are as follows:
UK 
pensions
North American 
pensions
Post-retirement 
healthcare
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Significant actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (% pa) 4.4 4.3 4.7 3.9 4.7 3.9
Retail Prices inflation assumption (% pa) 3.4 2.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Post-retirement mortality (Life expectancies in years)
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.0 21.8 20.0 19.9 19.6 19.5
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.5 24.3 21.9 21.8 21.5 21.4
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.8 23.6 21.5 21.4 21.1 21.0
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.3 22.7 22.6 22.4 22.3
Other related actuarial assumptions
Rate of increases for pensions in payment (% pa)
Pre 6 April 2006 service 3.3 2.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Post 5 April 2006 service 2.2 2.1 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Consumer Prices inflation assumption (% pa) 2.4 2.2 2.0 2.0 2.3 2.4
Rate of increase in healthcare costs n/a n/a n/a n/a * *
*  7.7% per annum decreasing to 4.5% per annum and remaining static at that level from 2028 onwards. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 156
Financial Statements
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
The assumptions used to determine end-of-year benefit obligations are also used to calculate the following year’s cost. For North America, 
weighted assumptions are shown where applicable.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The “current” disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with “future” being that relating to an employee retiring in 2034  
(in 20 years time).
The assets and liabilities of the plan are as follows:      
Total
2013
£m
2012
£m
Plan assets at fair value
Equities (quoted) 156.3 130.3
Diversified Growth Funds (primarily quoted) 38.4 34.3
Corporate bonds (quoted) 63.6 63.0
Government bonds (quoted) 67.9 65.2
Insurance policies (unquoted) 346.2 348.2
Cash (quoted) 8.6 8.5
Fair value of plan assets 681.0 649.5
Present value of funded obligations (744.0) (731.8)
Net funded obligations (63.0) (82.3)
Present value of unfunded obligations (7.4) (8.1)
Net liability (70.4) (90.4)
The government bonds held are primarily index-linked, with around only 8% of the total government bonds being fixed interest. The pension 
plans have not directly invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or other assets used by the Group.
In the UK, where the majority of the Group’s pension assets are held, the investment strategy is to hold equities and other return-seeking 
assets such as diversified growth funds and a mixture of bonds to meet the assessed value of the benefits promised for the current active 
member employees and some deferred pensioners. For the remaining deferred pensioners and the bulk of pensioners currently receiving  
their benefit, the liabilities are backed by insurance policies and suitable bonds.
The change in net liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is comprised as follows:   
   
2013
£m
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Opening net liabilities (90.4) (84.7)
Expense charged to profit and loss (3.4) (6.6)
Amount recognised outside profit and loss 8.0 (10.8)
Employer contributions 15.4 11.1
Currency adjustment – 0.6
Closing net liabilities (70.4) (90.4)
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 157
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period 
are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
Current service cost (2.2) (2.1)
Administrative expenses (0.4) (0.5)
Past service curtailment gain 2.7 –
Included in operating profit 0.1 (2.6)
Interest on net pension liability (3.5) (4.0)
Total expense charged to profit and loss (3.4) (6.6)
Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Actual return on plan assets 49.5 65.6
Less: interest on plan assets (27.5) (28.4)
22.0 37.2
Other actuarial (losses) gains due to:
Changes in financial assumptions (14.0) (55.4)
Changes in demographic assumptions – (7.1)
Experience on benefit obligations – 14.5
Actuarial gains (losses) recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 8.0 (10.8)
Current service cost and administration expenses are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability is recognised  
in other finance costs. The curtailment gain as a result of the Main UK plan closing to future accrual is recognised as an exceptional item.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected unit 
method. The Group made special contributions of £12.1m over the period to 2013 (2012: £7 .5m) in addition to the Group’s regular contributions. 
The special contributions for 2014 are expected to be £9.6m. The total contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2014 are expected to be 
£12.6m (2013: £15.4m). 
The figures above for this accounting period have been calculated under IAS 19 (Revised). There has been no impact from the adoption  
of IAS 19 (Revised) on the disclosed defined benefit obligation, fair value of assets or net liabilities. However, the net charge to the Income 
Statement for this accounting period has increased by £3.3m on a pre tax basis (relative to that which would have applied under the previous 
version of IAS 19), with a tax impact of £0.8m. Operating profit reduced by £0.4m due to the recognition of administrative costs, while other 
finance costs increased by £2.9m. The actuarial loss recognised has decreased correspondingly by £3.3m. The additional net charge to the 
income statement reduces basic earnings per share for total operations by 1.2p and diluted earnings per share for total operations by 1.2p.
The 2012 prior year figures have been restated under IAS 19 (Revised). There was no impact on the disclosed defined benefit obligation,  
fair value of assets or net liabilities. However, the prior year net charge to the Income Statement was increased by £3.3m (relative to that 
disclosed previously), and the prior year actuarial loss recognised for 2012 was decreased correspondingly by £3.3m.
Sensitivity Analysis
Changes in key assumptions can have a significant effect on the reported retirement benefit obligation and the income statement expense for 
2014. The effects of changes in those assumptions are set out in the table below.
Increase
2013
£m
Decrease
2013
£m
Increase
2012
£m
Decrease
2012
£m
Discount rate
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change 106.0 (128.1) 103.8 (124.9)
Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change 73.4 (91.7) 70.6 (87.8)
RPI inflation (and associated assumptions)
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1.0% change (71.4) 71.2 (69.9) 69.7
Effect on net liability of a 1.0% change (53.1) 47.6 (51.6) 46.2
Life expectancy
Effect on defined benefit obligation of a 1 year change (20.5) 20.5 (20.2) 20.2
Effect on net liability of a 1 year change (10.1) 10.1 (9.7) 9.7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 158
Financial Statements
24. Pensions & other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
The impact on the net liability is significantly reduced as a result of the insurance policies held. In the absence of such policies, the impact  
of the net liability would equal the significantly higher impact on the defined benefit obligation.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation and net liability in isolation, and assuming  
no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. In practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without 
any movement in the value of the invested (non-insurance policy) assets held by the plans.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations (739.9) (690.9)
Current service cost (2.2) (2.1)
Past service curtailment gain 2.7 –
Interest on benefit obligations (31.0) (32.3)
Benefits paid 32.6 32.3
Contributions by employees – (0.1)
Actuarial (losses) gains due to:
Changes in financial assumptions (14.0) (55.4)
Changes in demographic assumptions – (7.1)
Experience on benefit obligations – 14.5
Exchange rate adjustment 0.4 1.2
Closing defined benefit obligations (751.4) (739.9)
The past service curtailment gain of £2.7m in the current period arose as a result of the decision taken, following consultation, to close the 
Main UK plan to the future accrual of benefits with effect from 30 June 2015 onwards. This decision was announced to members in August 
2013, at which point the curtailment gain was recognised under IAS 19 (Revised).
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
£m
Opening plan assets 649.5 606.2
Interest on plan assets 27.5 28.4
Employer contributions 15.4 11.1
Administrative expenses (0.4) (0.5)
Benefits paid (32.6) (32.3)
Actuarial return on plan assets less interest on plan assets 22.0 37.2
Exchange rate adjustment (0.4) (0.6)
Closing plan assets 681.0 649.5
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 159
25. Share capital & reserves      
2013
Number 
Million
2012
Number
Million
Issued & fully paid share capital
At the beginning of the period 213.6 213.0
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.3 0.6
At the end of the period 213.9 213.6
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 1.1 1.7
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards (0.4) (0.6)
At the end of the period 0.7 1.1
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed income.
As at 3 January 2014, 90,827 shares (2012: 125,196 shares) were held by the Kleinwort EBT with a market value of £1.9m (2012: £2.3m).
As at 3 January 2014, 168,764 shares (2012: 104,568) were held by the Appleby EBT for the strategic and matching elements of the deferred 
bonus and 82,667 shares (2012: 51,255) for the deferred element. These shares have a market value of £5.3m (2012: £2.9m).
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve was created by a repurchase and cancellation of own shares during the 53 weeks ended 1 January 1999.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations and the Group’s hedge of its net investment in foreign operations. 
Hedge accounting reserve
This reserve records the portion of the gains or losses on hedging instruments used as cash flow hedges that are determined to be effective. 
Net gains (losses) transferred from equity during the period are included in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement and 
Balance Sheet.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 0.3 –
Cost of sales (0.4) (0.8)
Interest 0.4 –
Inventory (0.5) –
(0.2) (0.8) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 160
Financial Statements
26. Additional cash flow information     
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
Continuing operations
Net cash generated from operations
Operating profit 490.3 468.6
Non cash exceptional items (70.5) (20.2)
Share of results of joint ventures (8.4) (6.4)
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 59.1 49.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 46.7 36.7
Gains on disposal of property, plant & equipment (1.3) (0.9)
Funding of pension & post-retirement costs (0.5) (0.8)
Employee share schemes 8.7 7.5
Net foreign exchange including derivative financial instruments 4.1 0.3
Decrease in provisions (13.4) (18.7)
Cash generated from operations before working capital cash flows 514.8 515.5
Decrease (increase) in inventories 1.6 (61.6)
(Increase) decrease in trade & other receivables and construction contracts (37.1) 24.4
Decrease in trade & other payables and construction contracts (5.4) (79.7)
Cash generated from operations 473.9 398.6
Additional pension contributions paid (12.1) (7.5)
Income tax paid (71.9) (104.9)
Net cash generated from operating activities 389.9 286.2
     
The settlement of the external debt of Weir Mathena and Weir Novatech on acquisition has been classified as a financing cash flow in 
accordance with IAS 7. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 161
The following tables summarise the cashflows arising on acquisitions:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 
Current period acquisitions (see below) (200.9) (114.9)
Previous periods acquisitions contingent consideration paid (0.3) (8.4)
(201.2) (123.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – cash paid (207.4) (125.1)
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 6.5 10.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries – current year acquisitions (200.9) (114.9)
Settlement of external debt of subsidiary on acquisition (1.3) (1.9)
Total cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries – current year (note 13) (202.2) (116.8)
Previous periods acquisitions contingent consideration paid (0.3) (8.4)
Total cash outflow relating to acquisitions (202.5) (125.2)
Disposals of subsidiaries
Current period disposals – proceeds – 25.2
  – cash disposed of – (1.8)
Prior period disposals (0.3) (0.5)
(0.3) 22.9
Proceeds from sale – 25.2
Cash disposed – (1.8)
Net cash inflow from current year disposals – 23.4
Current year disposals had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities
Trade and other receivables – 6.2
Construction contract assets – 0.9
Net derivative financial instruments – (0.6)
Trade and other payables – (8.1)
Construction contract liabilities – (6.7)
Provisions – (2.9)
Net assets disposed – (11.2) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 162
Financial Statements
26. Additional cash flow information (continued)
2013
£m
2012
£m
Reconciliation of net (decrease) increase in cash & cash equivalents to movement in net debt
Net (decrease) increase in cash & cash equivalents from continuing operations (307.3) 284.4
Net decrease (increase) in debt 260.7 (322.6)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (46.6) (38.2)
Lease inceptions (0.1) (0.1)
Loans acquired (1.5) (2.3)
Foreign currency translation differences (9.9) 24.9
Change in net debt during the period (58.1) (15.7)
Net debt at the beginning of the period (688.9) (673.2)
Net debt at the end of the period (747.0) (688.9)
Net debt comprises the following
Cash & short-term deposits (note 19) 79.1 391.1
Current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (26.5) (65.4)
Non-current interest-bearing loans & borrowings (note 20) (799.6) (1,014.6)
(747.0) (688.9)
27. Commitments & legal claims
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases for land and buildings, motor vehicles and plant and equipment. Land and building leases have an 
average term of between two and ten years, motor vehicles leases have an average term of between two and four years and plant and equipment 
leases have an average term of between three and five years. Certain leases have terms of renewal, at the option of the lessee, but there are no 
purchase options or escalation clauses. Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are shown in the table below.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Less than one year 24.1 25.0
After one year but no more than five years 57.1 56.1
More than five years 19.0 19.5
100.2 100.6
Finance lease commitments
The Group has finance leases for buildings and items of plant and equipment. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together 
with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are shown in the table below.
Minimum 
payments
2013
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
2013
£m
Minimum 
payments
2012
£m
Present value 
of payments
2012
£m
Less than one year 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
After one year but not more than five years 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.5
After five years – – 0.1 –
Total minimum lease payments 0.6 0.8
Less amounts representing finance charges (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of minimum lease payments 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7
The weighted average outstanding lease term is 4.04 years (2012: 4.42 years). For the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, the weighted average 
effective borrowing rate was 5.33% (2012: 5.74%).
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 163
Capital Commitments    
2013
£m
2012
£m
Outstanding capital commitments contracted but not provided for – property, plant & equipment 11.0 13.6
    
The Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures amounted to £0.5m (2012: £0.5m).
Legal claims
The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of 
business. 
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion & Order was filed with the United States District Court, Southern District of New York dismissing the claim against 
the Company (being one of many companies targeted) relating to a civil action for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food programme which 
was raised in the US. Subsequently the Iraqi Government filed notice of appeal. A hearing of this appeal took place in the 2nd Circuit Court of 
Appeals on 18 February 2014. The decision of the Court of Appeals is still awaited at the time of publication. It is the Company’s intention to 
continue to defend this action vigorously.
To the extent not already provided for, the directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually  
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.
28. Equity settled share-based payments
LTIP
There are three types of award which may be made under the LTIP to senior executives: performance shares, matching shares and investment 
shares. Details of each award are outlined in the Remuneration report on pages 85 to 112. The changes to the 2014 LTIP as described in the 
Directors Remuneration Policy on page 88 will take effect for the 2014 year end. 
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share prices (WASP) of shares awarded under the LTIP .
2013
Number
Million
2013
WASP
2012
Number
Million
2012
WASP
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.7 £14.57 2.3 £8.26
Awarded during the period 0.4 £24.11 0.5 £19.43
Exercised during the period (0.6) £7.57 (1.1) £4.01
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.5 £15.44 1.7 £14.57
An amount of £7.4m (2012: £6.7m) has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which  
are expected to be made at the end of the vesting period. This comprises an amount of £2.4m (2012: £2.0m) in respect of parent company 
employees and £5.0m (2012: £4.7m) in respect of employees of subsidiaries.
Certain subsidiary companies made a cash contribution to the parent company of £3.2m (2012: £2.0m) in the period in respect of their 
employees’ LTIP awards.
The remaining contractual lives of the outstanding LTIP awards at the end of the period are as follows.
Year of award
2013
Number 
Million
2013
Remaining 
contractual 
life
2012
Number 
Million
2012
Remaining 
contractual 
life
2010 – – 0.6 3 months
2011 0.6 3 months 0.6 15 months
2012 0.5 15 months 0.5 27 months
2013 0.4 27 months – –
The fair value of the conditional awards under the LTIP have been estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The following table gives 
the assumptions made during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 in the calculation of the fair 
value of awards made in those years.
2013 2012
Weighted average expected volatility (%) 39.91 40.00
Weighted average expected life (years) 3.00 3.00
Weighted average risk free rate (%) 0.37 0.53
Weighted average share price (£) 24.11 19.43
Weighted average fair value (£) 20.24 14.32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 164
Financial Statements
28. Equity settled share-based payments (continued)
The expected life of the awards is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected 
volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is volatility indicative of future trends which may also not necessarily be the actual 
outcome. Market related performance conditions have been taken into account in the calculation of fair values.
Deferred Bonus Plan
There are three types of award which may be made under the Deferred Bonus Plan: shares purchased on the employee’s behalf as part of the 
annual bonus, matching shares and strategic shares for senior executives. 
The following table illustrates the number of shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
2013
Number
Million
2012
Number
Million
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.1 –
Awarded during the period 0.1 0.2
Forfeited during the period – (0.1)
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.2 0.1
An amount of £1.3m (2012: £0.8m) has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the number of awards which are 
expected to be made at the end of the vesting period.
29. Related party disclosure
The following table provides the total amount of significant transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant 
financial year and outstanding balances at the period end.
Related Party
Sales to 
related  
parties – 
goods
£m
Sales to 
related  
parties – 
services
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
goods
£m
Purchases 
from related 
parties – 
services
£m
Amounts 
owed to 
related  
parties
£m
Joint ventures 2013 5.6 0.5 2.7 1.7 –
2012 1.0 0.2 1.7 2.6 –
Group pension plans 2013 – – – – 2.3
2012 – – – – 1.4
Contributions to the Group pension plans are disclosed in note 24.
Terms & conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales to and from related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances at the period end are unsecured and settlement 
occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party balances. For the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, 
the Group has not raised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been 
excellent (2012: £nil). This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and  
the market in which the related party operates. 
Compensation of key management personnel
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term employee benefits 4.6 6.5
Share-based payments 3.2 2.7
Post-employment benefits – 0.1
7.8 9.3
     
     
Emoluments paid to the Directors of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
2013
£m
2012
£m
Remuneration 2.0 2.7
Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards 2.8 5.7
4.8 8.4
Key management comprises the Board and the Group Executive. Further details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 165
30. Financial assets & liabilities
Financial risk management objectives & policies
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those relating to foreign currency, liquidity and credit risk. Foreign currency 
transactional risk arises when operating subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. 
Translational risk arises on the translation of overseas earnings and investments into Sterling for consolidated reporting purposes. Credit risk is 
the risk that a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract and liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to 
meet its liabilities as they fall due. In addition, the Group is subject to a degree of interest rate risk on its borrowings. The Group uses financial 
assets and liabilities, including derivatives, to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest rate risks as set out below.
Foreign exchange risk policy
Foreign currency transactional and translational risk could result in volatility in reported consolidated earnings and net assets.
In respect of transactional foreign currency risk, the Group maintains a policy that all operating units eliminate exposures on material committed 
transactions, usually by undertaking forward foreign currency contracts through the Group’s treasury function. In addition, it is Group policy that 
those companies where a significant concentration of foreign exchange risk has been identified may also apply hedge accounting in accordance 
with IAS 39. Therefore, some of the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts form part of an effective cash flow hedge. Exchange rate 
fluctuations in respect of the forward foreign currency contracts which form part of a cash flow hedge will have an impact on shareholders’ equity. 
Exchange rate fluctuations in respect of the other forward foreign currency contracts will have an impact on profit or loss. It is Group policy not  
to engage in any speculative transaction of any kind.
In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy to partially hedge United States dollar (US$) net assets exposure. This is achieved 
through designating an element of US dollar borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net investment 
hedges against the Group’s US dollar investments. The Group does not hedge the translational exposure arising from profit and loss items.
Liquidity risk policy
Liquidity risk could impact negatively on the Group’s reputation, borrowing costs or ultimately its ability to continue as a going concern. 
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring that sufficient committed facilities are in place to meet 
possible downside scenarios. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use  
of bank overdrafts, bank loans and fixed rate notes. Further details of the Group’s borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 20.
Credit risk policy
Credit risk could have a negative impact on reported earnings and cash and consequently the liquidity of the Group.
The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments.  
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, with no 
significant concentration of risk. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters 
of credit and insurance. Credit worthiness checks are also undertaken with external credit rating agencies before entering into contracts with new 
customers and credit limits are set as appropriate and adhered to. As shown in note 17 , the trade receivables presented in the balance sheet are 
net of allowance for doubtful debts. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identifiable loss event which, based on previous 
experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows. The Group’s exposure to the credit risk of financial institutions is limited 
by the adherence to counterparty limits, and by only trading with counterparties that have an investment grade credit rating or better at contract 
inception, based upon ratings provided by the major agencies. Exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market 
view of a counterparty’s credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate. Accordingly in normal market conditions, the probability  
of material loss due to non-performance by counterparties is considered to be low.
Interest rate risk policy
The Group’s borrowings are in a combination of fixed and variable rates of interest. Interest rate risk is regularly monitored to ensure that the 
mix of variable and fixed rate borrowing is appropriate for the Group in the short to medium-term. Details of changes to the Group’s loans and 
facilities has been included in note 20.
Net investment in foreign operations
As at 3 January 2014, US dollar fixed rate notes of US$1,160.0m (2012: US$1,088.2m) and US dollar variable rate loans of US$70.0m (2012: 
US$252.0m), both included in interest-bearing loans and borrowings, cross currency swaps of US$89.4m (2012: US$89.4m) and net forward 
foreign currency liability contracts of US$170.4m (2012: US$48.0m) have been designated as a hedge of the Group’s exposure to translational 
foreign exchange risk on its net investments in Weir SPM, Weir Warman, Weir Seaboard, Weir Novatech and Weir Mathena. Gains or losses on 
the retranslation of the borrowings and contingent consideration and the fair value of the cross currency swaps and forward foreign currency 
contracts are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in these subsidiaries. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 166
Financial Statements
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Carrying amounts & fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are reported in the 
financial statements.
Carrying 
amount
2013
£m
Fair value
2013
£m
Fair Value measurement using
Level 1
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets
£m
Level 2
Significant 
observable 
inputs
£m
Level 3
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 10.4 10.4 – 10.4 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1.8 1.8 – 1.8 –
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments* 467.1 467.1
Cash & short-term deposits* 79.1 79.1
558.4 558.4
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 9.4 9.4 – 9.4 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 –
Contingent consideration 27.7 27.7 – – 27.7
Amortised cost
Fixed rate borrowings 759.0 716.2 – 716.2 –
Floating rate borrowings 56.1 56.1 – 56.1 –
Obligations under finance leases 0.5 0.5 – 0.5 –
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings* 10.5 10.5
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income* 395.8 395.8
1,259.8 1,217.0
   
Carrying 
amount
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Fair Value measurement using
Level 1
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets
£m
Level 2
Significant 
observable 
inputs
£m
Level 3
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
£m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 4.2 4.2 – 4.2 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 –
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments* 449.0 449.0
Cash & short-term deposits* 391.1 391.1
844.5 844.5
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit or loss 14.6 14.6 – 14.6 –
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.9 0.9 – 0.9 –
Contingent consideration 24.5 24.5 – – 24.5
Amortised cost
Fixed rate borrowings 771.5 792.7 – 792.7 –
Floating rate borrowings 301.0 301.0 – 301.0 –
Obligations under finance leases 0.7 0.7 – 0.7 –
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings* 6.9 6.9
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income* 400.4 400.4
1,520.5 1,541.7
  
*  The fair value of cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables approximates their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities of these 
instruments. As such disclosure of the fair value hierarchy for these items is not required.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 167
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit 
ratings. The derivative financial instruments are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs including spot and forward 
foreign exchange rates, interest rate curves, counterparty and own credit risk. The fair value of cross currency swaps is calculated as the 
present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot foreign exchange rates and counterparty and own credit risk. The fair value  
of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward foreign 
exchange rates.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2:  other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly;
Level 3:  techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. 
At 3 January 2014 and 28 December 2012, the Group has classified contingent consideration as level 3. A reconciliation of the movements  
in the contingent consideration fair value has been included in note 13.
During the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012, there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 
fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of level 3 fair value measurements. 
The fair value of borrowings and obligations under finance leases is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available 
for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. The basis for the calculation of the fair value of contingent consideration is 
outlined in detail in note 13.
Derivative financial instruments
Set out in the table below is a summary of the types of derivative financial instruments included within each balance sheet category.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in non-current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.6 –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 0.1 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts 0.4 0.8
1.1 0.8
Included in current assets
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.7 0.2
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.4 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts 10.0 3.4
11.1 3.6
Included in current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges (0.1) (0.1)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (0.2) (0.3)
Other cross currency swaps – (9.1)
Other forward foreign currency contracts (9.3) (5.2)
(9.6) (14.7)
Included in non-current liabilities
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges (0.2) –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.3) (0.5)
Other forward foreign currency contracts (0.1) (0.3)
(0.6) (0.8)
Net derivative financial assets (liabilities) 2.0 (11.1) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 168
Financial Statements
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Liquidity & credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset, including derivative 
financial instruments. The liabilities which could impact liquidity risk are best represented by the carrying value and maturity profile of each 
financial liability, including derivative financial instruments. The following tables include the undiscounted cash flows of financial assets and 
liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to receive or pay these financial assets or liabilities and include both 
interest and principal cash flows. In respect of derivative financial instruments the net credit/liquidity risk is best represented by the net inflows 
(outflows) shown below together with the Group’s headroom under the borrowing facilities as disclosed in note 20.
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 467.1 – – – 467.1
Cash & short-term deposits 79.1 – – – 79.1
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets 546.2 – – – 546.2
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (401.1) (4.4) – (27.7) (433.2)
Obligations under finance leases (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) – (0.6)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (10.5) – – – (10.5)
Bank loans (16.7) (1.0) (42.8) – (60.5)
Fixed rate notes (33.1) (97.0) (171.7) (678.0) (979.8)
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities (461.6) (102.5) (214.8) (705.7) (1,484.6)
Net cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets (liabilities) 84.6 (102.5) (214.8) (705.7) (938.4)
     
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade & other receivables excluding statutory assets & prepayments 449.0 – – – 449.0
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1 – – – 391.1
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets 840.1 – – – 840.1
Trade & other payables excluding statutory liabilities & deferred income (400.5) (5.4) (4.8) (27.8) (438.5)
Obligations under finance leases (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.8)
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (6.9) – – – (6.9)
Bank loans (60.8) (243.7) – – (304.5)
Fixed rate notes (33.5) (33.5) (159.7) (803.0) (1,029.7)
Cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities (501.9) (282.8) (164.8) (830.9) (1,780.4)
Net cash flows relating to non-derivative financial assets (liabilities) 338.2 (282.8) (164.8) (830.9) (940.3)
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 169
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Cross currency swaps – outflow (2.8) (14.5) (48.4) – (65.7)
Cross currency swaps – inflow 2.9 14.6 48.8 – 66.3
Cross currency swaps – net inflow 0.1 0.1 0.4 – 0.6
Forward foreign currency contracts – outflow (642.1) (18.4) (16.7) – (677.2)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inflow 644.2 18.9 17.0 – 680.1
Forward foreign currency contracts – net inflow 2.1 0.5 0.3 – 2.9
Derivative financial instruments – outflow (644.9) (32.9) (65.1) – (742.9)
Derivative financial instruments – inflow 647.1 33.5 65.8 – 746.4
Derivative financial instruments – net inflow 2.2 0.6 0.7 – 3.5
Effect of discounting (1.5)
Net derivative financial assets 2.0
     
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 Less than 1 
year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years
More than 5 
years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cross currency swaps – outflow (53.1) (2.9) (19.3) (43.4) (118.7)
Cross currency swaps – inflow 43.8 2.8 19.0 43.1 108.7
Cross currency swaps – net outflow (9.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.3) (10.0)
Forward foreign currency contracts – outflow (584.8) (13.9) (33.0) – (631.7)
Forward foreign currency contracts – inflow 583.3 14.2 33.6 – 631.1
Forward foreign currency contracts – net (outflow) inflow (1.5) 0.3 0.6 – (0.6)
Derivative financial instruments – outflow (637.9) (16.8) (52.3) (43.4) (750.4)
Derivative financial instruments – inflow 627.1 17.0 52.6 43.1 739.8
Derivative financial instruments – net (outflow) inflow (10.8) 0.2 0.3 (0.3) (10.6)
Effect of discounting (0.5)
Net derivative financial liabilities (11.1) The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 170
Financial Statements
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Interest rate risk & maturity profile
The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and the 
Group’s notional value of derivative financial instruments, by maturity, exposed to interest rate risk. 
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate debt
Fixed rate notes – (66.8) (85.5) (606.7) (759.0)
Obligations under finance leases (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) – (0.5)
(0.2) (66.9) (85.7) (606.7) (759.5)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg – (19.5) (69.9) – (89.4)
Notional cross currency swaps Sterling leg – 12.0 43.0 – 55.0
– (7.5) (26.9) – (34.4)
Net fixed rate financial instruments (0.2) (74.4) (112.6) (606.7) (793.9)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 79.1 – – – 79.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (10.5) – – – (10.5)
Bank loans (15.8) (0.4) (39.9) – (56.1)
52.8 (0.4) (39.9) – 12.5
Net floating rate financial instruments 52.8 (0.4) (39.9) – 12.5
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 171
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 Less than 1 
year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
More than 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate debt
Bank loans (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Fixed rate notes – – (67.7) (703.7) (771.4)
Obligations under finance leases (0.3) (0.2) (0.3) – (0.8)
 (0.4) (0.2) (68.0) (703.7) (772.3)
Fixed rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg – – (19.5) (69.9) (89.4)
Notional cross currency swaps Sterling leg – – 12.0 43.0 55.0
– – (7.5) (26.9) (34.4)
Net fixed rate financial instruments (0.4) (0.2) (75.5) (730.6) (806.7)
Floating rate net debt
Cash & short-term deposits 391.1 – – – 391.1
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings (6.9) – – – (6.9)
Bank loans (58.3) (242.7) – – (301.0)
325.9 (242.7) – – 83.2
Floating rate derivatives
Notional cross currency swaps US dollar leg (81.0) – – – (81.0)
Notional cross currency swaps Sterling leg 41.0 – – – 41.0
(40.0) – – – (40.0)
Net floating rate financial instruments 285.9 (242.7) – – 43.2
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. Interest on financial instruments classified 
as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above 
tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax and equity through the impact on floating rate borrowings and cross currency swaps in respect of each currency to 
which the Group has a significant exposure to interest rate risk.
Increase in
basis points
Effect on 
profit before 
tax (loss) 
gain 
£m
Effect on 
equity (loss)
£m
2013
UK Sterling + 100 (0.1) –
US Dollar + 100 – (0.7)
2012
UK Sterling + 100 2.2 –
US Dollar + 100 (1.5) (2.4)
    
A decrease of 100 basis points would have an equal and opposite effect. 
    The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 172
Financial Statements
30. Financial assets & liabilities (continued)
Effect of hedge & derivative financial instruments included in the income statement & equity
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge currency risk associated with expected future sales or purchases for which the 
Group has firm commitments. The terms of the forward foreign currency contracts are negotiated to match the terms of the commitments. 
During the period three subsidiaries within the Group have applied cash flow hedge accounting to these forward foreign currency transactions. 
On 28 December 2012, the hedge relationships within LGE Process Ltd were discontinued on disposal of the company with the outstanding 
hedge reserve balance of £0.2m charged to the income statement at that time. All other forward foreign currency contracts, while representing 
commercial hedges, are not subject to cash flow hedge accounting with all fair value movements being recognised in the income statement.
The net carrying amount, maturity dates and the amounts recognised for the period in profit or loss and equity for each derivative financial 
instrument are set out below.
53 weeks ended 3 January 2014
Net carrying 
amount
£m Maturity dates
Gain (loss) 
recognised in 
profit or loss
£m
Gain 
recognised 
in equity
£m
Loss 
recognised 
in inventory
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1.0 2014 to 2017 0.3 0.3 (0.5)
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 0.2 2014 0.3 5.3 –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.2) 2015 to 2018 (0.1) 0.3 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss 1.0 2014 to 2017 (10.6) – –
2.0 (10.1) 5.9 (0.5)
     
52 weeks ended 28 December 2012
Net carrying 
amount
£m Maturity dates
Gain (loss) 
recognised in 
profit or loss
£m
Gain 
recognised in 
equity
£m
Gain (loss) 
recognised in 
inventory
£m
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 0.1 2013 (0.9) 1.0 –
Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges (0.3) 2013 – 1.4 –
Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges (0.5) 2013 to 2018 0.4 4.9 –
Other forward foreign currency contracts at fair value through profit or loss (10.4) 2012 to 2017 (1.7) – –
(11.1) (2.2) 7.3 –
The net £0.2m gain (2012: £0.4m) recognised in profit or loss in respect of cross currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts 
designated as net investment hedges reflects the benefit of the US dollar/Sterling interest rate differential. The Group’s forward foreign 
currency contracts subject to cash flow hedge accounting which were deemed to be ineffective during the period resulted in a net charge  
to the income statement of £nil (2012: £nil).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 173
Foreign exchange risk
The Group considers the most significant foreign exchange risk relates to the Australian dollar, Euro and United States dollar. The following 
table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in these foreign currency exchange rates with all other variables held 
constant. The sensitivity analysis shows the effect on profit or loss in respect of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, 
including payables, receivables, borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts but excluding all financial assets and liabilities qualified  
as either cash flow or net investment hedges. The sensitivity analysis also shows the effect on equity in respect of financial assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency qualifying as either cash flow or net investment hedges including forward foreign currency contracts, 
borrowings and cross currency swaps. The sensitivity analysis below has been presented to demonstrate the impact of a 25% strengthening 
of the relevant functional currency against the currencies shown below and therefore give an indication of the transactional foreign exposure 
that exists at a subsidiary level across the Group.
Increase in 
currency 
rate
Effect on 
profit gain 
(loss)
£m
Effect on 
equity gain 
£m
2013
Australian dollar +25% 0.7 –
Euro +25% 3.3 1.6
US dollar +25% (3.7) 180.6
2012
Australian dollar +25% 0.3 –
Euro +25% 4.9 0.7
US dollar +25% 5.0 183.3
As noted above, the Group does not hedge translational exposure arising from profit and loss items. The Group’s operating profit from 
continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was denominated in the following currencies.
2013
£m
2012
Restated
(note 2)
£m
US dollar 241.3 296.2
Australian dollar 46.2 57.4
Euro 44.5 36.4
Canadian dollar 42.6 41.2
Brazilian real 5.0 7.8
Chilean peso 33.8 31.3
South African rand 9.7 8.8
United Kingdom pound 0.2 (19.7)
Other 43.2 25.7
Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation 466.5 485.1 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 174
Financial Statements
31. Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains robust capital ratios in order to support its business  
and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group 
monitors capital using the following indicators.
Gearing ratio
Gearing comprises net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises cash and short-term deposits and interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings (note 26).
    
2013 2012
Net debt (£m) 747.0 688.9
Total equity (£m) 1,486.7 1,310.3
Gearing Ratio (%) 50.2 52.6
Net debt to EBITDA cover
Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, depreciation, 
intangibles amortisation and impairment.
2013
2012
Restated 
(note 2)
Net debt (£m) 747.0 688.9
Operating profit (£m) 490.3 468.6
Exceptional items included in operating profit (note 5) (£m) (70.5) (20.2)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment (£m) 105.8 86.1
EBITDA (£m) 525.6 534.5
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.4 1.3
Interest cover
Interest cover comprises operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation divided by net 
finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs).
2013
2012
Restated
(note 2)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation (£m) 466.5 485.1
Net finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs) (£m) 44.9 41.3
Interest cover (ratio) 10.4 11.7
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 175
The Group’s banking arrangements also require the calculation of net debt to EBITDA and interest cover as part of the bi-annual financial 
covenant certifications. For the purposes of the covenants required by the Group’s lenders, the net debt is to be converted at the exchange 
rate used in the preparation of the Group’s income statement and cash flows, ie. average rate. In addition, profits of businesses acquired  
in the financial year have to be included as if the acquisitions occurred at the start of the financial year. The covenant calculations for the 
purposes of the Group’s lenders are shown below.
Net debt to EBITDA cover – lender covenants basis    
2013
2012
Restated
(note 2) 
Net debt at average exchange rates (£m) 775.9 719.8
Operating profit* (£m) 491.4 471.7
Exceptional item included in operating profit (note 5) (£m) (70.5) (20.2)
Depreciation, intangibles amortisation & impairment* (£m) 105.8 86.3
EBITDA* (£m) 526.7 537.8
Net debt to EBITDA cover (ratio) 1.5 1.3
Interest cover – lender covenants basis
2013
2012
Restated
(note 2)
Operating profit before exceptional items & intangibles amortisation* (£m) 467.6 488.2
Net finance costs (excluding exceptional items and other finance costs) (£m) 44.9 41.3
Interest cover (ratio) 10.4 11.8
* Adjusted for current year acquisitions    
32. Exchange rates
The principal exchange rates applied in the preparation of these financial statements were as follows.
2013 2012
Average rate (per £)
US dollar 1.56 1.58
Australian dollar 1.61 1.53
Euro 1.18 1.23
Canadian dollar 1.61 1.58
Brazilian real 3.36 3.10
Chilean peso 771.29 770.51
South African rand 15.01 13.01
Closing rate (per £)
US dollar 1.64 1.62
Australian dollar 1.83 1.56
Euro 1.21 1.22
Canadian dollar 1.74 1.61
Brazilian real 3.91 3.30
Chilean peso 869.82 775.72
South African rand 17.50 13.69 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 176
Financial Statements
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 which comprise  
the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 18. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.  
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition,  
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 3 January 2014;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The Weir Group PLC for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014.
James Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Glasgow
26 February 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WEIR GROUP PLC Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 177
Notes
3 January 
2014
£m
28 December 
2012
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 3 1.8 1.2
Intangible assets 4 3.8 1.7
Investments 5 2,239.7 2,245.6
Total fixed assets 2,245.3 2,248.5
Current assets
Debtors 6 95.8 38.2
Derivative financial instruments 11 14.6 9.0
Cash at bank & in hand* 12.8 321.6
Total current assets 123.2 368.8
Creditors falling due within one year
Creditors 7 726.5 697.6
Derivative financial instruments 11 16.7 19.2
Total current liabilities 743.2 716.8
Net current liabilities 620.0 348.0
Total assets less current liabilities 1,625.3 1,900.5
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Loans 8 1,093.6 1,318.7
Derivative financial instruments 11 1.4 1.4
Total creditors falling due after more than one year 1,095.0 1,320.1
Provisions 9 2.1 2.1
Net assets excluding retirement benefits 528.2 578.3
Retirement benefits 10 1.1 1.0
Net assets including retirement benefits 527.1 577.3
Capital & reserves
Share capital 12 26.7 26.7
Share premium 13 38.0 38.0
Treasury shares 13 (5.8) (5.6)
Capital redemption reserve 13 0.5 0.5
Special reserve 13 1.8 1.8
Profit & loss account 13 465.9 515.9
Total equity 527.1 577.3
* The cash at bank & in hand includes £nil (2012: £149.4m) of short term deposits.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2014
Keith Cochrane  Jon Stanton
Director   Director 
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
At 3 January 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 178
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies
The accounting policies which follow have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Basis of preparation          
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards. 
Foreign currency translation         
The presentational and functional currency of the Company is Sterling. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the 
Company’s functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date. Currency translation differences are recognised in the profit  
and loss account except when hedge accounting is applied.
Tangible assets 
Tangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is depreciated over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at rates of 7.5% for 
office equipment and 25% for computer equipment.     
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost and the cost is amortised over the estimated useful life by equal annual instalments at the rate of 25%.
Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are held at historical cost less a provision for impairment. 
    
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax,  
with the exception that deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that  
there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Post-employment benefits 
The Company and other UK subsidiaries of the Group participate in multi-employer defined benefit pension plans which are set up under 
separate trusts. These plans are operated on a basis that does not enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying assets 
and liabilities and, in accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the plans as if they are defined contribution plans. 
          
In addition, the Company has unfunded unapproved pension promises. Contributions are made to the plans on the advice of an independent 
qualified actuary. Pension plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high 
quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Company’s 
unfunded unapproved pension promises expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating profit. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.  
       
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the profit and loss account when they become payable.  
Leases 
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), the Executive  
Bonus Scheme (‘EBS’) and as a consequence of occasional one-off conditional awards made to senior executives.  
The fair value of the LTIP at the date of the grant is calculated using appropriate option pricing models and the cost is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due  
to failure to satisfy service conditions or performance conditions. 
 
The EBS is determined as a percentage of the annual bonus. This percentage is matched by the Company with a share award that will vest on the 
third anniversary of the grant date provided the individual continues to hold the original bonus shares awarded and continues to be employed by 
the Company at the date of vesting. The EBS includes a strategic bonus shares element for a limited number of senior employees. The fair value of 
the matching and strategic elements of the EBS is determined at the date of grant of the bonus and the cost is recognised on a straight line basis 
over the vesting period. The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of this plan that is based on the fair value of the awards. The fair 
value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. 
           
As permitted by FRS 20, the Company has applied FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’ retrospectively only to equity-settled awards that had not 
vested as at 1 January 2005 and were granted on or after 7 November 2002. 
      
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 179
Financial assets & liabilities   
The Company’s principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, short-term borrowings, loans and 
fixed rate notes, cash and short-term deposits.     
A financial asset is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability 
is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such  
an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in 
the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.     
 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate 
movements. Additionally, the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate risk. The Company does not hold  
or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.    
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair value  
of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on spot and forward foreign 
exchange rates. The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash 
flows based on interest rate curves and spot foreign exchange rates. Changes in their fair values have been recognised in the profit and loss 
account, except where hedge accounting is used, provided the conditions specified by FRS 26 are met. Hedge accounting is applied in 
respect of hedge relationships where it is both permissible under FRS 26 and practical to do so. When hedge accounting is used, the relevant 
hedging relationships will be classified as a cash flow hedge or fair value hedge.
  
To the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than  
in the profit and loss account. When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised 
in equity will be either recycled to the profit and loss account or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as 
adjustments to its initial carrying amount.           
  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred  
to net profit or loss for the period. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 and has not disclosed information required by that standard in relation  
to derivative financial instruments as the Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent 
disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7. 
Treasury shares 
The Weir Group PLC shares held by the Company are classified in shareholders’ equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost. 
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the 
original cost being taken directly to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale,  
issue or cancellation of equity shares. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 180
Financial Statements
2. Profit attributable to the Company
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £24.3m (2012: £267.2m). In accordance with the concession granted under section 
408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in these financial statements.
Dividends paid & proposed
2013
£m
2012
£m
Declared & paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend for 2012: 30.0p (2011: 25.8p) 63.8 54.8
Interim dividend for 2013: 8.8p (2012: 8.0p) 18.8 16.9
82.6 71.7
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting
Final dividend for 2013: 33.2p (2012: 30.0p) 70.8 63.8
The proposed dividend is based on the number of shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, at the date the financial statements were 
approved and authorised for issue. The final dividend may differ due to increases or decreases in the number of shares in issue between  
the date of approval of the report and financial statements and the record date for the final dividend.
Directors
Details of directors remuneration, benefits and LTIP awards are included in the Remuneration report on pages 85 to 112, and in note 29  
to the Group financial statements.
Auditors remuneration
The total fees payable by the Company to Ernst & Young LLP for work performed in respect of the audit of the Company were £14,000  
(2012: £13,000). Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in these accounts as the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
3. Tangible assets    
Office & 
computer 
equipment 
£m
Cost
At 28 December 2012 1.8
Additions 1.0
Disposals (0.1)
At 3 January 2014 2.7
Aggregate depreciation
At 28 December 2012 0.6
Charge for year 0.4
Disposals (0.1)
At 3 January 2014 0.9
Net book value at 28 December 2012 1.2
Net book value at 3 January 2014 1.8
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 181
4. Intangible assets  
Purchased 
Software
£m
Development 
Costs
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 28 December 2012 2.0 0.4 2.4
Additions 1.7 0.6 2.3
At 3 January 2014 3.7 1.0 4.7
Aggregate amortisation
At 28 December 2012 0.7 – 0.7
Charge for year 0.2 – 0.2
At 3 January 2014 0.9 – 0.9
Net book value at 28 December 2012 1.3 0.4 1.7
Net book value at 3 January 2014 2.8 1.0 3.8
    
5. Fixed asset investments  
Subsidiaries 
Shares
£m
Loans
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 28 December 2012 737.9 1,513.3 2,251.2
Additions 35.0 – 35.0
Repayments – (40.9) (40.9)
At 3 January 2014 772.9 1,472.4 2,245.3
Impairment
At 3 January 2014 & at 28 December 2012 0.2 5.4 5.6
Net book value at 28 December 2012 737.7 1,507.9 2,245.6
Net book value at 3 January 2014 772.7 1,467.0 2,239.7
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company are listed on page 190.    
    
6. Debtors   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts recoverable within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 91.2 32.8
Deferred tax recoverable (note 14) 1.5 2.3
Other debtors 2.4 2.6
Prepayments & accrued income 0.7 0.5
95.8 38.2
     The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 182
Financial Statements
7. Creditors  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank overdrafts & short-term borrowings 144.0 114.7
Loans from subsidiaries 509.3 544.8
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 49.6 9.6
Tax payable 0.9 0.5
Other taxes & social security costs 1.4 1.3
Other creditors 4.6 4.8
Accruals & deferred income 16.7 21.9
726.5 697.6
8. Loans   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts due are repayable as follows
Less than one year
– bank loans 15.8 58.3
– loans from subsidiaries 509.3 544.7
More than one year but not more than two years
– bank loans 0.4 242.7
– fixed rate notes 66.9 –
– loans from subsidiaries 15.1 11.9
More than two years but not more than five years
– bank loans 39.9 –
– fixed rate notes 85.7 67.7
– loans from subsidiaries 279.2 –
More than five years
– fixed rate notes 606.4 703.7
– loans from subsidiaries – 292.7
1,618.7 1,921.7
Less current instalments due on:
– bank loans (15.8) (58.3)
– loans from subsidiaries (509.3) (544.7)
1,093.6 1,318.7
The loans from subsidiaries with a maturity date greater than two years and less than five years are repayable in 2018 and have an interest rate 
of 6.37%. These loans are not secured. 
Details of the interest and repayment terms of the bank loans and fixed rate notes can be found in note 20 to the Group financial statements.
    
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 183
9. Provisions  
Subsidiaries 
Shares 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
Warranty & 
indemnity
£m
Total 
£m
At 3 January 2014 and 28 December 2012 1.1 1.0 2.1
Subsidiaries
As at 3 January 2014, a provision of £1.1m (2012: £1.1m) has been made against the deficiency of underlying net assets in certain subsidiaries. 
Discontinued operations warranty & indemnity
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations include provision for warranty and indemnity exposures under asset and share sale agreements. 
The provision as at 3 January 2014 is based on management’s current best estimate of the remaining liabilities. The actual outcome may differ 
and, in some cases, this may be dependent on the outcome of legal proceedings. It is expected that the majority of these costs will be incurred 
within two years of the balance sheet date. 
10. Retirement benefits
The net pension liability in respect of the Company unapproved plan is reflected on the Company’s balance sheet. The liabilities of the 
Company unapproved plan are shown below.
   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Present value of plan liabilities (1.4) (1.4)
Related deferred tax asset (note 14) 0.3 0.4
Net pension liability (1.1) (1.0)
    
2013
£m
2012
£m
Recognised in the profit & loss account
Interest cost on plan liabilities 0.1 0.1
Other finance costs 0.1 0.1
    
The major assumptions used by the actuary for the Company unapproved plan were as follows.  
2013
%
2012
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.3 2.9
Discount rate 4.4 4.3
Inflation assumption 3.4 2.9
    
The mortality assumptions used as follows.    
2013
Years
2012
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.0 21.8
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.5 24.3
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.8 23.6
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.3
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The “current” disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with “future” being that relating to an employee retiring in 2034  
(in 20 years time). The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 184
Financial Statements
10. Retirement benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations 1.4 1.4
Interest cost 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Closing defined benefit obligations 1.4 1.4
    
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.    
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening plan assets – –
Employer contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Closing plan assets – –
History of experience gains and losses     
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (1.4) (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.1)
Deficit in the plans (1.4) (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.1)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities – – (0.1) (0.2) –
In addition, the Company also participates in the defined benefit plan arrangements within The Weir Group Pension & Retirement Savings Scheme 
(Main Plan) and The Weir Group 1972 Pensions and Life Assurance Plan for Senior Executives (Executive Plan). These defined benefits plans are 
funded multi-employer plans which are operated by The Weir Group PLC and which are run on a basis that does not enable individual companies 
to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities. In accordance with FRS 17 , the Company accounts for its contributions to these plans 
as if they were defined contribution plans. While assets and liabilities in respect of these plans are not reflected on the Company’s balance sheet, 
details of these are set out below.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of annual valuations using the projected 
unit method. The Company made special contributions of £12.1m in 2013 (2012: £7.5m) in addition to the employers regular contributions. The 
special contributions for 2014 are expected to be £9.6m. The total contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2014 are expected to be £11.7m 
(2012: £14.4m).
Plan assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates and overall expected rates of return are established by 
applying published brokers forecasts to each category of plan assets and allowing for plan expenses. The actual return on plan assets in the 
period was a gain of £46.7m (2012: £63.6m). 
The assets and liabilities of the plans and the long-term expected rates of return are as follows.
2013
%
2013
£m
2012
%
2012
£m
Equities 7.4 185.2 6.8 156.9
Bonds 3.9 124.6 3.4 121.3
Insurance policy 4.4 346.2 4.3 348.2
Other 1.3 8.1 0.5 7.6
Fair value of plan assets 664.1 634.0
Present value of plan liabilities (723.6) (708.5)
Net deficit in the plans (59.5) (74.5)
     
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 185
2013
£m
2012
£m
Recognised in the profit & loss account
Current service cost 2.1 2.0
Past service curtailment gain (2.7) –
(0.6) 2.0
Expected return on plan assets (29.6) (30.5)
Interest cost on plan liabilities 29.8 31.1
Other finance costs 0.2 0.6
Taken to the statement of total recognised gains & losses
Actual return on plan assets 46.7 63.6
Less: expected return on plan assets (29.6) (30.5)
17.1 33.1
Other actuarial losses (16.6) (45.3)
Actuarial gains (losses) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains & losses 0.5 (12.2)
The curtailment gain of £2.7m in the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 arose as a result of a decision taken, following consultation, to close the 
Main UK Plan to the future accrual benefits with effect from 30 June 2015. This decision was announced to members in August 2013, at which 
point the curtailment gain was recognised under FRS 17. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary were as follows.     
2013
%
2012
%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.3 2.9
Rate of increase in pensions in payment
Pre 6 April 2006 service 3.3 2.9
Post 6 April 2006 service 2.2 2.1
Discount rate 4.4 4.3
Inflation assumption 3.4 2.9
     
The mortality assumptions used were as follows.     
2013
Years
2012
Years
Post-retirement mortality
Current pensioners at 65 – male 22.0 21.8
Current pensioners at 65 – female 24.5 24.3
Future pensioners at 65 – male 23.8 23.6
Future pensioners at 65 – female 26.5 26.3
The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases in longevity. The “current” disclosures above relate to assumptions 
based on longevity (in years) following retirement at the balance sheet date, with “future” being that relating to an employee retiring in 2034  
(in 20 years time). The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 186
Financial Statements
10. Retirement benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations 708.5 660.9
Current service cost 2.1 2.0
Past service gain (2.7) –
Interest cost 29.8 31.1
Benefits paid (30.7) (30.9)
Contributions by employees – 0.1
Actuarial losses 16.6 45.3
Closing defined benefit obligations 723.6 708.5
     
Changes in fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening plan assets 634.0 591.7
Expected return on plan assets 29.6 30.5
Employer contributions 14.1 9.5
Contributions by employees – 0.1
Benefits paid (30.7) (30.9)
Actuarial gains 17.1 33.1
Closing plan assets 664.1 634.0
     
History of experience gains and losses     
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fair value of plan assets 664.1 634.0 591.7 580.6 539.8
Present value of defined benefit obligations (723.6) (708.5) (660.9) (632.6) (599.2)
Deficit in the plans (59.5) (74.5) (69.2) (52.0) (59.4)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities – 14.5 0.9 (2.8) (10.6)
Changes in assumptions underlying plan liabilities (16.6) (59.8) (42.5) (22.3) (111.6)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 17.1 33.1 (0.5) 24.0 64.4
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses is £264.6m (2012: £265.1m).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 187
11. Derivative financial instruments   
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments due within one year
Forward foreign currency contracts 13.5 8.1
Derivative financial instruments due after more than one year
Forward foreign currency contracts 1.1 0.9
14.6 9.0
Creditors falling due within one year
Cross currency swaps – 9.1
Forward foreign currency contracts 16.7 10.1
16.7 19.2
Creditors falling due after more than one year
Cross currency swaps 1.1 0.9
Forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 0.5
1.4 1.4
     
The figures in the above table are inclusive of derivative financial instruments where the counterparty is a subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC.
     
12. Share capital    
2013
£m
2012
£m
Allotted, called up & fully paid
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each 26.7 26.7
     
2013
Number 
Million
2012
Number
Million
Shares allotted
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards 0.3 0.6
Treasury shares
At the beginning of the period 1.1 1.7
Issued during the period in respect of LTIP awards (0.4) (0.6)
At the end of the period 0.7 1.1
Equity settled share-based payments
LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the period 1.5 1.7
     
Further details of the equity settled share-based payments and the associated cost for the period can be found in note 28 to the Group 
financial statements. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 188
Financial Statements
13. Reserves 
Share 
Premium
£m
Treasury 
Shares
£m
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
£m
Special 
Reserve
£m
Profit & loss 
Account
£m
At 30 December 2011 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 1.8 317.6
Profit for the period – – – – 267.2
Dividends – – – – (71.7)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 4.9
Purchase of shares – (2.0) – – –
Exercise of LTIP awards – 2.0 – – (2.1)
At 28 December 2012 38.0 (5.6) 0.5 1.8 515.9
Profit for the period – – – – 24.3
Dividends – – – – (82.6)
Cost of share-based payment inclusive of tax credits – – – – 9.5
Purchase of shares – (1.4) – – –
Exercise of LTIP awards – 1.2 – – (1.2)
At 3 January 2014 38.0 (5.8) 0.5 1.8 465.9
     
14. Deferred tax asset     
£m
At 28 December 2012 2.7
Included in profit for the period (1.7)
Credit for the period included in equity 0.8
At 3 January 2014 1.8
     
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in debtors (note 6) 1.5 2.3
Included in retirement benefits (note 10) 0.3 0.4
1.8 2.7
Other timing differences 1.5 2.3
Retirement benefits 0.3 0.4
1.8 2.7
     
15. Operating lease commitments     
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are shown in the table below.
2013
£000
2012
£000
Less than one year – 9
After one year but not more than five years – 9
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Continued Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 189
16. Contingent liabilities & legal claims
Guarantees
The Company has given guarantees in relation to the bank and other borrowings of certain subsidiary companies. The net funds of the 
companies’ party to these facilities as at 3 January 2014 amounted to £134.1m (2012: £228.8m).
Legal claims
The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business. 
On 6 February 2013, an Opinion & Order was filed with the United States District Court, Southern District of New York dismissing the claim against 
the Company (being one of many companies targeted) relating to a civil action for damages arising from the UN Oil for Food programme which 
was raised in the US. Subsequently the Iraqi Government filed notice of appeal. A hearing of this appeal took place in the 2nd Circuit Court of 
Appeals on 18 February 2014. The decision of the Court of Appeals is still awaited at the time of publication. It is the Company’s intention to 
continue to defend this action vigorously.
To the extent not already provided for, the directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually  
or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.
17. Related party disclosures
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly owned by a 
subsidiary of The Weir Group PLC. The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with non-wholly 
owned related parties for the relevant financial year and outstanding balances at the period end.
Related party
Management 
charge
£m
Amounts 
due by
£m
Weir Minerals (India) Private Ltd 2013 0.2 0.3
2012 0.4 0.1
Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL 2013 0.3 0.3
2012 – –
18. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The description of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies is provided in note 30 to the Group financial statements.
These financial risk management objectives and policies also apply to the Company. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 190
Financial Statements
Name
Country of registration 
or incorporation
% equity 
interest
2013
Subsidiaries
American Hydro Corporation USA 100
EnviroTech Pumpsystems, Inc. USA 100
Gema Industrigummi AB Sweden 100
Linatex Rubber Products Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100
Mathena Inc. USA 100
Mesa Manufacturing, Inc. USA 100
Multiflo Pumps Pty Ltd Australia 100
Seaboard Holdings, Inc. USA 100
Shengli Oilfield Weir Highland Pumps Company Ltd China 60
Specialised Petroleum Manufacturing Ltd Scotland 100
SPM Flow Control, Inc. USA 100
SPM Flow Control Ltd Canada 100
Vulco SA Chile 99
Weir Canada Inc Canada 100
Weir do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100
Weir Engineering Services Ltd Scotland 100
Weir Floway, Inc. USA 100
Weir Gabbioneta SrL Italy 100
Weir Hazleton Inc. USA 100
Weir India Private Ltd India 100
Weir International Co. Ltd South Korea 60
Weir Minerals Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100
Weir Minerals Australia Ltd Australia 100
Weir Minerals Europe Ltd England 100
Weir Minerals Netherlands BV Netherlands 100
Novatech Holdings Corp. USA 100
Weir Power & Industrial France SAS France 100
Weir – R. Wales Canada Inc. Canada 100
Weir Slurry Group Inc. USA 100
Weir Solutions FZE Dubai 100
Weir Valves & Controls UK Ltd* England 100
Weir Valves & Controls USA Inc USA 100
Weir Valves & Controls (Suzhou) Co. Ltd China 100
Ynfiniti Engineering Services SL Spain 77
Joint ventures
Weir Arabian Metals Company Saudi Arabia 49
Wesco LLC UAE 49
*  Companies whose shares are owned directly by The Weir Group PLC.
PRINCIPAL COMPANIES OF THE GROUP
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group are as follows. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 191
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410 (2) of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation 
to subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the financial statements.
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is attached to the annual return of the The Weir Group PLC filed at
Companies House.
Group products
Some of the key product trade marks owned by the Principal Companies are set out below, most of which are registered in one or more countries:
WARMAN is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd and Weir Group African IP Ltd; ASPIR, CAVEX, HAZLETON and MULTIFLO are trade 
marks of Weir Minerals Australia Ltd; LEWIS and LEWIS PUMPS are trade marks of Envirotech Pumpsystems Inc.; GEHO is a trade mark of 
Weir Minerals Netherlands BV; FLOWAY is a trade mark of Weir Floway Inc.; VULCO is a trade mark of Vulco SA; ISOGATE is a trade mark of 
Weir do Brasil Ltda.; LINATEX is a trade mark of Linatex Ltd; ENDURON is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Europe Ltd; KHD is a trade mark used 
under license by companies forming part of The Weir Group; SPM and MESA are trade marks of S.P .M. Flow Control, Inc.; SEABOARD is a 
trade mark of Seaboard International, Inc.; NOVATECH is a trade mark of Novatech, LLC; GABBIONETA is a trade mark of Weir Gabbioneta Srl; 
BEGEMANN is a trade mark of Weir Minerals Netherlands BV; MATHENA is a trade mark of Mathena, Inc.; ALLEN STEAM TURBINES is a 
trade mark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd; AMERICAN HYDRO is a trade mark of American Hydro Corporation; ATWOOD & MORRILL  
and TRICENTRIC are trade marks of Weir Valves & Controls USA, Inc; BDK is a trade mark of Weir India Pvt Ltd; BATLEY, BATLEY VALVE, 
BLAKEBOROUGH, HOPKINSONS and MAC VALVE are trade marks of Weir Valves and Controls UK Ltd; SARASIN-RSBD and SEBIM are 
trade marks of Weir Power & Industrial France SAS; ROTO-JET is a trade mark of Envirotech PumpSystems, Inc.; WEMCO is a trade mark 
used under licence by companies forming part of The Weir Group; WEIR is a trade mark of Weir Engineering Services Ltd. The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 192
Financial Statements
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Website: www.investorcentre.co.uk
Telephone: 0870 707 1402
Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certificate and other related matters 
should be addressed to Computershare.
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare. This service allows you to view your share portfolio 
and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, update payment 
instructions and receive your shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
and enter the name of the company in which you hold shares, your Shareholder Reference Number (SRN), your postcode or country if outside 
of the UK or Channel Islands and security code (provided on screen). For security purposes, Computershare will send a unique activation code 
to your registered address. Your SRN can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Dividends
2013 final dividend
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 33.2 pence per share for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014. Payment of this dividend  
is subject to approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Key dates relating to this dividend are given below:
Ex-dividend date    30 April 2014
Annual General Meeting   1 May 2014
Record date    2 May 2014
Final day for receipt of DRIP elections  8 May 2014
Payment date    30 May 2014
Dividend payments
You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways. Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your 
registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below:
• Direct payment to your bank
 Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account. This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques 
becoming lost or delayed in the post. To switch to this method of payment you can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or download a 
dividend mandate form from the FAQ section of the Company’s website (weir.co.uk), under ‘Shareholder Information’ in the ‘Investor’ section. 
Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have. A Consolidated Tax Voucher 
(CTV) detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent to you once a year either electronically or to your registered 
address. In 2014, the CTV will be dispatched with the November 2014 dividend payment and contain the tax and payment information for 
dividends paid during the 2014/2015 tax year.
•  Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
 The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare regulated DRIP to use their dividend to purchase further Weir 
Group shares. Instead of receiving cash, shareholders receive as many whole shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking into account 
related purchase costs. Any residual cash will be carried forward and added to their next dividend. If you wish to participate in the DRIP , you 
can apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or alternatively, you can complete a DRIP mandate form obtainable from Computershare.
• Global Payment Service
 If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries. This may make it possible to 
receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency. Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from each 
individual payment before conversion into your local currency. This service can be set up at www.investorcentre.co.uk or by contacting 
Computershare.
Capital gains tax
For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p. This market 
value has been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two 
ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993. Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new 
ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary 
shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 193
Communications
Annual and Interim Reports
The Weir Group publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year. The Annual Report is sent to all shareholders who have elected to receive 
a hard copy through the post as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to receive e-communications (see below). The Interim 
Report is published on the Company’s website and a printed copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
E-communications
The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access shareholder documents, such as Annual Reports and Notices of the  
AGM, via e-communications rather than receiving printed documents in the post. To sign up for e-communications, please register at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. In order to do this, you will need your SRN which can be found on your share certificate or on your dividend tax 
voucher. Once registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide your email address. We will  
then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder documents are available on the Company’s website.
Company website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Company’s corporate website (weir.co.uk), which contains a wealth of information about the Weir 
Group. The website includes information about the markets in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, recent news from 
the Group and product information. The Investor section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details on the share price, 
our financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, as well as a ‘Frequently asked questions’ section. Current and past Annual and 
Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Share dealing services
Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange. 
Internet share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of £30. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases. 
There is no need to open a trading account in order to deal. Real time dealing is available during market hours (8.00 am to 4.30 pm Monday  
to Friday excluding bank holidays). In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours. Up to 90 day limit orders 
are available for sales. To access the service, log on to www-uk.computershare.com/Investor/ShareDealing.asp. Shareholders should have  
their SRN available, which appears on share certificates and tax dividend vouchers. Please note that, at present, this service is only available  
to shareholders in certain European jurisdictions. Please refer to the Computershare website for an up-to-date list of these countries. 
Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, plus £35. In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases. You can contact 
Computershare on 0870 703 0084. Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call. Detailed terms and conditions are 
available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402. Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in the UK  
and Ireland.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions. Computershare Investor Services 
PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC. Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should 
obtain independent financial advice. Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he/she 
originally invested.
Voting
Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy.
Shareholder alerts
Unsolicited investment advice and fraud
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment 
matters. Share scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even 
non-existent shares.
These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and their activities have resulted in considerable losses for some investors. Whilst 
usually by telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar. Shareholders are advised to be 
very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and take a note of any other details they provide, such as a telephone 
number or address.
• Check that the caller is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) by visiting www.fca.org.uk.
• Report any approach from such organisations to the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fsa.org.uk/scams, where you can 
also find out about the latest investment scams. You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0845 111 6768.
• If calls persist, hang up.
Please note that if you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.
  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 194
Financial Statements
AGM Annual General Meeting
Appleby EBT Employee benefit trust (Appleby Trust (Jersey) Ltd)
Board The Board of Directors of The Weir Group PLC
bps Basis points, ten basis points are equivalent to 0.1% movement
Brent An internationally recognised benchmark for the price of oil
CGU Cash generating unit
capex Capital expenditure
comminution The first stage of minerals processing through which solid materials are reduced in size through 
crushing and screening
Company The Weir Group PLC
Director A Director of The Weir Group PLC
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
EHS Environment, health and safety
elastomer An elastic polymer used in pump linings
emerging markets Asia-Pacific, South America, Africa and the Middle East
EPCMs Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management companies
EPS Earnings per share
Excellence Committees Weir Group Management Committees ensuring best practice
free cash flow Net cash flow generated from continuing operations excluding the cash impact in relation 
to acquisitions, disposals and net proceeds from/repayments of borrowings
GHG Greenhouse gas
Group The Company together with its subsidiaries
HR Human resources
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP
GLOSSARY Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 195
Input Orders received from customers
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation
Kleinwort EBT Employee benefit trust (Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Ltd)
KPI Key Performance Indicator
like for like On a consistent basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions
low carbon industries Nuclear, wind, hydro, solar, biomass and geothermal industries
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
mill circuit The various stages of extracting and processing ore
Oil & Gas forum An initiative to develop products and services for the North American upstream oil and gas markets 
by leveraging the expertise of all three Weir divisions
operating margin Operating profit including our share of results of joint ventures divided by revenue
ordinary shares The ordinary shares in the capital of the Company of 12.5p each
NPBTA Normalised profit before tax and amortisation
PBTA Profit before tax and amortisation
Registrar Computershare Investor Services plc
R&D Research and development
ROCE Continuing operations EBIT (excluding Mathena and Wales EBIT and exceptional items) divided 
by average net assets excluding net debt, pension deficit (net of deferred tax asset) and Mathena  
and Wales net assets
RPI UK Retail Prices Index
subsidiary An entity that is controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Company
TIR Total Incident Rate (medical treatment of any kind required by employees divided 
by 200,000 hours worked)
TSR Total Shareholder Return comprising dividends paid on ordinary shares and the increase 
or decrease in the market price of ordinary shares
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
WTI West Texas Intermediate, an internationally recognised benchmark for the price of oil
  The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 196
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
Ex-dividend date for final dividend
30 April 2014
Annual General Meeting
1 May 2014
Record date for final dividend
2 May 2014
Shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend.
Final day for receipt of DRIP elections
8 May 2014
Final dividend paid
30 May 2014
Cautionary Statement
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements with 
respect to the financial condition, operations and performance
of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty
since future events and circumstances can cause results and
developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The
forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking
statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed
as a profit forecast.
Registered Office and Company Number
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB
Scotland
Registered in Scotland
Company Number 2934 Printed on an FSC-recognised paper, produced from well-managed 
forests. This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by 
an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification. The Weir Group PLC
20 Waterloo Street
Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland
T: +44 (0)141 637 7111
F: +44 (0)141 221 9789
E: investor-relations@weir.co.uk
weir.co.uk
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
