 William Hill PLC
Greenside House,
50 Station Road,
Wood Green,
London N22 7TP
Tel: 020 8918 3600
Fax: 020 8918 3775
Reg No: 4212563 England
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Founded in 1934, William Hill is one of the leading providers of fixed odds bookmaking
services, offering odds and taking bets on a wide range of sporting and other events, as
well as offering amusement with prizes machines and fixed odds betting terminals in
licensed betting offices and operating online casino, poker and games sites as well as two
greyhound stadia.
It is a market leader in all major betting channels in the UK with an established
international presence through its online business.
Online Channels :
williamhill.co.uk
williamhillcasino.com
williamhillpoker.com
williamhillskill.com
williamhillgames.com
williamhillbingo.com
mobile.willhill.com
Telephone Channels :
Debit: 0800 44 40 40
Credit: 0800 289 892
Retail Channel :
Over 2,200 shops
Corporate Website :
williamhillplc.co.uk Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 3
Chief Executive’s Review 4
Operating and Financial Review 7
Board of Directors 13
Professional Advisers 14
Directors’ Report 15
Directors’ Remuneration Report 17
Statement on Corporate Governance 26
Report of the Nomination Committee 30
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee 31
Corporate Responsibility 33
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41
Group Independent Auditors’ Report 42
Group Financial Statements 44
Parent Company Independent Auditors’ Report 84
Parent Company Financial Statements 85
5 Year Summary 94
Glossary 95
Shareholder Information 96
Contents William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
2
Highlights include the following:
• Gross win up 15% to £931.3m (2005: £807.7m)
• Profit on ordinary activities before finance charges and exceptional items up 19% at
£292.2m (2005: £245.0m)
• Cash generated from operations before tax and interest up 30% to £313.9m (2005:
£242.0m) which represents 107% of operating profit
• Basic earnings per share (EPS) pre exceptionals up 24% to 45.5 pence (2005: 36.6 pence) 
• Proposed final dividend up 19% to 14.5 pence per share (2005: 12.2 pence per share)
payable on 5 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on 27 April 2007
• The Group has purchased 43.3m shares for £257.0m via on-market share buy-backs
between July 2005 and December 2006 
• Plans well developed to exploit opportunities in Spain and Italy in conjunction with our
partners, Codere 
• In the nine weeks to 27 February 2007, the Group’s gross win has increased by 11%. At this
early stage in the year, the Board remains comfortable with consensus expectations
Financial Highlights
Financial Highlights William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3
The period was boosted by the World Cup
and the continued growth in FOBTs. We
also continued to maintain a tight control
over costs. In addition, our acquisition of
Stanley Leisure plc’s betting shops in the
UK, Republic of Ireland, the Channel
Islands and the Isle of Man has
substantially improved our competitive
position in the UK and given access to the
Irish betting market. The integration of the
business into the existing William Hill
estate was completed on schedule by the
end of the first quarter of 2006. We
believe that the £13m of synergies and
other benefits promised at the time of the
acquisition have already been delivered,
with more gains to come. 
During 2006, we have also made
significant progress in developing our
international business. We will shortly
enter into joint venture agreements with
Codere to exploit new opportunities in
Spain and Italy. Codere is a leading
Spanish gaming group which operates
slot machines, bingo halls, sports betting
outlets, racetracks and casinos in Spain,
Italy and Latin America. We think that in
Codere we have found a partner with a
similar culture and attitude to ourselves
and we are confident that this partnership
has the potential to deliver long-term
value for both sets of shareholders.
We continue with our three-year
programme to upgrade our core
bookmaking systems which, when
complete, is intended to provide
significant business benefits and give our
customers the convenience of betting
across our channels through a single
account. The importance of this
programme is emphasised by the keen
competition experienced in 2006 in the
interactive sector and the disadvantage
we are currently operating under due to
the age and inflexibility of our legacy
technology platform.
2006 has also been a busy period in the
field of regulation. The Gambling
Commission has continued to consult
widely with the betting and gaming
industry as they prepare detailed
conditions, codes, standards and guidance
under the Gambling Act 2005 in time for
the deadline imposed by DCMS of
September 2007 for the new regulatory
regime to become effective. Overall, we
welcome the establishment of the
Gambling Commission as a strong and fair
regulator who should ensure that the UK
industry maintains its strong reputation
for probity and integrity. We have been
heavily involved in detailed consultations
with the Gambling Commission with a
view to ensuring that the regulations
produced are fair and proportionate. We
have concerns that some of the detailed
regulations are still not published in final
form and that some consultations are still
ongoing at this late stage. Consequently,
we are concerned about the time given to
the industry to implement the detailed
requirements in time for September
where technical changes to systems and
equipment are needed. We shall continue
our discussions with the Gambling
Commission to press for practical and
proportionate regulation. 
There are also a number of provisions,
which the Gambling Act is expected to
introduce, which should be beneficial to
the betting industry including longer
opening hours in the winter, the
classification of FOBTs as gaming
machines and the introduction in LBOs of
£500 jackpot machines. Other provisions
including the removal of the demand
criteria could also impact our estate
although we believe that this may not be
significant over the longer term. 
The Government has announced that it
had decided to retain the Horserace
Betting Levy Board and the associated
horserace betting levy scheme for the
time being. This follows the conclusion of
an investigation of the future funding of
the UK horseracing industry by an
independent committee under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue, which
concluded that there is no current
commercial alternative funding
mechanism.
Another independent committee also
under the chairmanship of Lord
Donoughue also concluded its
investigation of the starting price
mechanism in 2006. The changes made
have been controversial with a number of
commentators criticising them as being
detrimental to punters. However, as they
have widened the sample of the
bookmaker prices included, we believe
that they are a fairer reflection of the
actual prices pertaining and will be seen
to be beneficial for horse-racing in the
long term.
There have been two changes to the
Board’s composition in 2006. In March,
Simon Lane joined the Board as Group
Finance Director. Simon brings a wealth of
experience from the leisure and retail
sectors and has already made a significant
impact. In November, Tom Singer left the
Board to pursue other interests. I would
like to thank Tom for the significant
contribution he has made to the business
since joining the Group in 2002, initially as
Group Finance Director where he played
an outstanding role in connection with
the flotation of the Group and more
recently as Chief Operating Officer
assisting in the integration of the Stanley
Retail acquisition.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
14.5 pence per share which combined
with the interim dividend of 7.25 pence
per share results in total dividends for the
year of 21.75 pence per share, a 19%
increase on the total dividends paid in the
comparable period.
In the nine weeks to 27 February 2007,
the Group’s gross win has increased by
11% and costs remain under control. At
this early stage of the year, the Board
remains comfortable with consensus
expectations.
Finally, I would like formally  to thank all
our colleagues for their hard work in 2006
and wish them further success for 2007.
Charles Scott
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
2006 has been a successful
year with the Group
realising the full-year
benefits of the Stanley Retail
acquisition and benefiting
from good organic growth
throughout the rest of the
business. Profit before
finance charges and
exceptional items was 19%
higher than last year and
earnings per share
excluding exceptional items
increased by 24%. To reflect
this, the Board is proposing
to increase total dividends
for the year by 19%. William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
4
2006 has seen the Group’s strategy of
generating organic growth, exploiting
new platforms and executing value-
enhancing acquisitions continue to deliver
long-term value for shareholders. The
Group produced a strong profit
performance in the period, fully
leveraging the benefits of the Stanley
Retail acquisition, which was completed in
June 2005. The year has also seen a strong
performance from FOBTs and the impact
of the World Cup, both of which have
boosted year-on-year gross win growth
while operating expenses continue to be
kept under tight control. Consequently,
profit on ordinary activities before interest,
taxation and exceptional items was up
19% to £292.2m (2005: £245.0m) and
earnings per share were 45.5p, a rise of
24% (after adjusting for last year’s
exceptional items) compared to 2005. 
In recognition of these excellent results,
the Board is recommending a final
dividend of 14.5 pence per share, taking
the full year dividend to 21.75 pence, an
increase of 19% on last year.
Retail channel
The Retail channel’s gross win grew by
18% to £736.0m (6% excluding Stanley
Retail) and pre-exceptional profit
increased by 24% to £225.9m (9%
excluding Stanley Retail). 
Within the original William Hill estate
(excluding Stanley Retail), total gross win
increased by 6% year-on-year. In this part
of the estate, gross win from over the
counter (OTC) was flat while FOBT/AWP
gross win was up 18%.
LBOs in the Stanley Retail estate
performed better year-on-year than those
in the original William Hill estate with
gross win growing by 7% for the full year
and second half gross win growth of 10%
achieved. For the year as a whole, FOBT
gross win grew by 18% and OTC gross
win increased by 4%. 
The average number of FOBTs in the
original William Hill estate increased to
6,034 (FY 2005: 5,892) in the period and in
the Stanley Retail estate the average
number of FOBTs was 1,567 compared to
1,539 in the second half of last year. The
average net profit per machine per week
in the William Hill estate was £494 (FY
2005: £402) and in the Stanley Retail
estate was £346 (second half of 2005:
£287). The improved profitability in both
estates was due to a combination of
greater gross win per machine and better
contractual terms with our main FOBT
supplier Leisure Link, which were effective
from May 2005. However, the imposition
of Amusement Machine Licence Duty in
August 2006 has adversely affected
average weekly profitability of each
terminal by £38.
The average number of AWPs traded in
the period fell to 303 in 2006 (FY 2005:
353) within the William Hill estate. In the
Stanley Retail estate, the average number
traded also fell from 386 AWPs in the
second half of last year to 314 in 2006. 
Non-exceptional costs in the channel
were up 16% (5% excluding Stanley
Retail). Excluding Stanley Retail, there
were minimal increases in staff costs due
to reduced overtime and premium
payments under the new LBO staff
employment contracts and productivity
improvements resulting from the
investment in EPOS. FOBT rentals fell due
to more favourable contractual terms,
which are exclusively profit-share based,
and AWP rentals fell due to the reduction
in the number of machines in the estate.
Savings were also made due to a higher
portion of VAT expense being recoverable
following the change in tax regime for
FOBTs. These savings were offset by
increased provisions for staff bonuses;
increases in rent and rates due to
increased LBO numbers and rent reviews;
higher energy costs reflecting general
market conditions; and depreciation and
maintenance charges as a result of
introducing new text and EPOS systems.
There were no exceptional costs in the
current year. The prior period exceptional
costs related to the integration of the
Stanley Retail acquisition.
We completed 233 development and LBO
refurbishment projects in 2006 including
50 new licences, 70 extensions and resites
and 113 LBO fittings. Overall, we spent
£40.1m on estate development in 2006. 
At 26 December 2006, we had 2,165 LBOs
in the United Kingdom, 9 in the Channel
Islands, 2 in the Isle of Man and 48 in the
Republic of Ireland; a total of 2,224. 
2006 has seen the introduction of the
capability to take a wider range of Tote
Direct bets across the estate, which has
been favourably received by our
customers. We also completed the rollout
of our new text system and an EPOS
system throughout the Stanley Retail
estate during the period and in
consequence the entire estate has been
running on identical systems since the
end of March. 
Telephone channel
Telephone gross win grew by 8% to
£57.5m and operating profit increased by
28% to £16.7m. 
The channel benefited from the World
Cup and increased football betting in
general as well as more normal
horseracing results. In addition there was
some favourable high roller activity
especially in the second half of the year.
Costs in the channel were up 5%
principally due to higher marketing spend
focused around the World Cup. 
We ended the year with 160,000 active
telephone customers (27 December 2005:
174,000).
Interactive channel
Interactive gross win increased 6% to
£130.5m and operating profit showed a
small increase to £61.5m. 
Growth in Interactive sportsbook gross
win was modest in the period when
compared to our expectations at the
beginning of the year. Since we launched
our Interactive channel in 1999, we have
fully exploited our legacy bookmaking
and client management systems but it
has become increasingly clear that the
Interactive sportsbook is being impacted
by the relative inflexibility of our current
technology configuration. Our NextGen
technology programme is designed to
rectify these issues and deliver systems
clearly superior to anything currently
available to our major competitors. By the
end of 2007, this programme is expected
to deliver a number of enhancements and
give us a flexible platform to more easily
introduce better products going forward.
We anticipate that these changes will be
undertaken alongside the technical
changes required by the Gambling
Commission, which are yet to be 
finalised.
Chief Executive’s Review
Chief Executive’s Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 5
Despite the limitations of our current
systems, we continued to increase our
range of in-running betting opportunities
on our sportsbook and we launched 10
new arcade games during the period that
expanded our offering to 20 games. 
Poker and Casino has also had a
challenging second half after an
encouraging start to the year. These
products have been affected by strong
competition particularly following the
withdrawal of many operators from the
US market in September 2006, which has
impacted poker site liquidity in general
and made the competition for European
customers more intense. We continue to
have confidence in the long-term
prospects of these products and in
December 2006, we extended our
contract with our poker and casino
software partner, Cryptologic. As part of
the new contract, Cryptologic have made
a significant commitment in respect of
game and other product development. 
In October 2006, we decided to close our
Interactive TV (WHTV) channel following a
review of its operations and the
conclusion of a trial broadcast of its
content into our LBOs. Whilst we have
exited this particular arrangement, we
remain committed to the strategy of
supplying customers with a means to
place bets on an interactive TV platform
and of supplying tailored content to our
own LBOs, once we have identified a
profitable and cost effective means of
doing so. 
In January 2007, we launched internet skill
gaming in partnership with
GameAccount, the world’s largest
integrated network of skill-based games.
Accessible through a tab on William Hill’s
homepage, the fully integrated browser-
based skill games available on the site
include multiplayer blackjack, gin rummy
and backgammon. We also launched an
interactive bingo game in partnership
with Virtue Fusion in January. Early
indications of trading from both these
ventures are encouraging. 
Total active accounts increased to 405,000
as at 26 December 2006 (27 December
2005: 341,000). 
Costs in the channel increased 10%
mainly due to higher marketing spend,
higher technology charges and closure
costs of WHTV.
Operating expenses
Expenses (net of operating income) for
the Group were £445.3m, an increase of
15% (6% excluding Stanley Retail). 
Excluding Stanley Retail, staff costs (which
represented roughly half of our total
costs) increased 7% in 2006, mainly
reflecting provisions for profit based
incentive schemes. Excluding these
provisions from this period and the
comparative period, staff costs have risen
by 2% reflecting a 3% general pay award
and an increase in the number of LBOs
now trading, partly offset by an
improvement in productivity driven by
the rollout of EPOS. Property costs, which
represented 17% of our total costs, were
up 12% over the comparable period
reflecting higher energy costs and
increases in rent and rates, in part driven
by an increase in average LBO size and an
increase in the number of LBOs.
Depreciation costs increased 38% with the
full year effects of the rollout of EPOS and
text systems along with the supporting
technology, although this was partly
offset by staff costs savings. The cost of
providing pictures and data to our LBOs
was up 7% over the comparable period
due to the increased size of the estate and
price increases. Advertising and marketing
costs were up 22% over the comparable
period reflecting World Cup and other
more general web-based advertising and
promotions. 
Stanley acquisition
The integration of the Stanley Retail estate
was completed by the end of March 2006
in accordance with the plans we drew up
in 2005. Key tasks achieved in 2006 were
the completion of the re-branding of the
LBOs, installation throughout the Stanley
Retail estate of the same version of EPOS
and audio-visual text systems already
deployed in the William Hill estate and the
closure of the Stanley Retail head office.
The Stanley Retail estate has delivered
strong gross win growth in 2006,
particularly in the second half with gross
win growth of 10% achieved year-on-year.
We remain confident that the acquisition
will deliver the synergies and other
benefits of up to £20m we anticipated at
the end of 2005, which compares
favourably with the original estimated
synergies at the time of the acquisition of
£13m.
Regulatory development
The Gambling Commission has now been
established and the Commission and
DCMS are in the process of developing
the regulations, conditions, standards and
guidance under the Gambling Act 2005
and the Commission will take over its
duty to promote the licensing objectives
under the Act with effect from 
1 September 2007.
The Group is preparing for the
implementation of these detailed
requirements. We have been heavily
involved in dialogue with the Commission
both by ourselves and via our trade
associations, with a view to ensuring that
appropriate and proportionate regulations
are implemented. However, we remain
Chief Executive’s Review
£m
Gross win Gross win
Trading pr
0
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
152.4
505.6
2003 2004 2005 2006
165.5
736.0
623.4
181.6
225.9
Gross win
Trading pr
Stanley William Hill
548.1
£m
Gross win
Trading pr
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
56.5
22.2
2003 2004 2005 2006
60.3
22.1
57.5
53.4
16.7
13.0
0 £m
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
84.9
2003 2004 2005 2006
Gross win
Trading pr
110
120
130
140
150
100
106.1
61.5 61.2
130.5
123.3
37.1
51.7
Retail Telephone Interactive William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
6
concerned that certain requirements have
yet to be finalised, while the technical
standards for the remote businesses have
recently been published for consultation
with finalised documentation not
expected to be available until June. We
are concerned that insufficient time is
being given to the industry to enable full
compliance with these technical
standards from the beginning of
September. We will continue to hold
discussions with the Commission to press
for this and other issues to be resolved in
a practical way. 
We also look forward to the proposed
deregulation that the Gambling Act
enables, such as extended betting shop
opening hours and the installation of
higher payout gaming machines, both 
of which will be permitted from 
1 September 2007.
Cost of content
On 14 December 2006, the Government
announced that it had decided to retain
the Horserace Betting Levy Board and the
associated horserace betting levy scheme.
This follows the publication of the
findings of a report compiled by an
independent committee under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoghue. This
committee was established to investigate
whether there was any alternative
commercial arrangements that could
replace the current levy scheme but
concluded that, currently, there was not a
secure and alternative funding
mechanism for horseracing. At the same
time, the Government announced its
intention to modernise the existing levy
mechanism by reducing as many of the
administrative burdens as possible. We
welcome the Government’s intentions to
modernise the scheme and we remain
committed to providing a fair and
equitable financial contribution
supporting the UK horseracing industry.
SIS, a company partly owned by the
Group is currently the sole provider of UK
horse racing pictures and data content to
bookmakers. SIS (via the betting industry)
has contracts, which expire at the end of
2007 with a number of UK racecourses to
broadcast pictures and data to LBOs.
Recently a proposed joint venture
between Alphameric and Racing UK has
claimed to have secured exclusive
transmission rights from up to 30 UK
racecourses from the beginning of 2008.
This would mean that SIS would not be
able to transmit pictures from these 30
tracks (except when they are generally
available via terrestrial coverage) once its
current contracts expire. If this happens,
we will have to decide whether to have
two different sources of pictures from the
beginning of 2008 if we want to maintain
coverage of these horse tracks within our
LBOs. This could imply an extra cost for us
but also an inferior service for customers,
as the co-ordination of the timing and
broadcasting of events achieved by SIS
would not be possible with two different
transmission sources. In the event that we
decide to take the service offered by the
proposed joint venture, we plan to seek
an appropriate reduction in the level of
our current funding of the UK horseracing
industry via the levy scheme. 
International activities
In July 2006, the Group signed a non-
binding memorandum of understanding
with the Spanish gaming group Codere.
Codere is a company dedicated to the
private gaming sector in Europe and Latin
America. With more than 25 years
experience, it operates slot machines,
bingo halls, sports betting outlets,
racetracks and casinos in Spain, Italy,
Central and South America.
The parties plan to create a joint venture
to develop a sports betting business in
Spain. Spain is one of the largest
gambling markets in Europe and the
region of Madrid has recently published
(and several of Spain’s regions are now
developing) legislation to regulate sports
betting, allowing the establishment of
land-based businesses. The parties are
planning to apply jointly for a licence in
Madrid shortly and intend to apply in
other regions in Spain if regulations are
passed which make such applications
attractive.
The Group has established a joint venture
company with Codere relating to the
Italian gambling sector. Following a
tendering process in 2006, the Group and
Codere were jointly awarded concessions
to exploit licences issued as part of the
tender process launched in August 2006
by the Italian regulatory authority. The
award comprises 20 concessions to
operate horseracing betting shops, 7
concessions to operate sports betting
shops and 28 concessions relating to
sports betting points. Remote licences
relating to horseracing and sports betting
were also applied for and granted. In
addition to activating these units the
proposed joint venture intends to
evaluate other opportunities for growth in
the Italian market.
Dividends and capital
structure
The Company is proposing to pay a final
dividend of 14.5 pence per share (2005:
12.2 pence per share) on 5 June 2007 to
shareholders on the register on 27 April
2007. The 19% increase in the proposed
final dividend reflects the strong
performance achieved in 2006 and our
confidence about the Group’s future
prospects.
Following the acquisition of Stanley Retail
in June 2005, the Board considered the
optimal capital structure and financing
arrangements for William Hill. In
September 2005, the Board announced it
intended to maintain an efficient and
flexible capital structure and would
achieve these objectives by targeting a
ratio of net debt to earnings before
exceptional items, interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) of
approximately 3.5 times to be achieved
over the medium term. A new five-year
bank facility of £250m was arranged in
June 2006 to underpin this objective and
the Board announced with its interim
results that they were increasing the total
buy-back programme from the previously
announced target of £200m – £300m, to
circa £320m – £400m by the end of 2007.
By the end of December 2006, the Group
net debt to EBITDA ratio was 3.3 and
£257.0m had been returned by means of
on-market share buy-backs.
As we are now close to our target
leverage and as we have current
investment commitments, both
internationally through our joint ventures
with Codere and domestically in respect
of some retail bolt-on acquisitions, we
currently estimate that the pace of our
rolling share buyback programme in 2007
is likely to slow. We remain committed to
returning surplus capital to shareholders
and our buyback programme will be kept
under regular review.
David Harding
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7
To the shareholders of William Hill PLC
The statutory requirement to prepare an
Operating and Financial Review (OFR) has
been removed by the Government.
However, it is included in this Annual
Report as the Board considers it contains
important information which may assist
shareholders to assess the Company’s
strategy and the potential for that
strategy to succeed.
The Directors are however required to
provide a Business Review, the contents
of which are set out in the Companies
Act. For convenience the Business Review
on page 15 does not repeat information
already provided within the OFR and
appropriate cross references to
information in this document are
provided. As such, some of the
information within the OFR is required
and some is being provided on a
voluntary basis.
The OFR includes statements that are, or
may be deemed to be, “forward-looking
statements”. By their nature, forward-
looking statements involve risk and
uncertainty because they relate to future
events and circumstances. A number of
factors could cause actual results and
developments to differ materially from
those expressed or implied by the
forward-looking statements. As such,
information in this OFR cannot be relied
upon as a guide to future performance.
Forward-looking statements may and
often do differ materially from actual
results. Any forward-looking statements in
this OFR reflect the Company’s view with
respect to future events as at the date of
this document and are subject to risks
relating to future events and other risks,
uncertainties and assumptions relating to
William Hill’s operations, results of
operations, strategy and liquidity. Save as
required by law or by the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority, the
Company undertakes no obligation
publicly to release the results of any
revisions to any forward-looking
statements in this OFR that may occur
due to any change in its expectations or
to reflect events or circumstances after
the date of this announcement.
This OFR has been prepared for the Group
as a whole and therefore gives greater
emphasis to those matters, which are
significant to the Group taken as a whole. 
Operations
Description of the business
William Hill is a leading provider of fixed
odds bookmaking services, offering odds
and taking bets on a wide range of
sporting and other events, as well as
offering FOBTs and AWPs in its LBOs and
operating an online casino and poker
room. The Group also operates two
greyhound stadia situated in the north
east of England.
The Group delivers its betting and gaming
products to customers through three
principal channels:
• Retail comprises a network of over
2,200 outlets throughout the UK and
Ireland making William Hill one of
the two largest operators of LBOs in
the UK. The directors believe that the
scale of the network gives William
Hill a significant competitive
advantage in terms of brand
recognition and allows central costs
to be spread across a large estate;
• Telephone betting, in which the
directors believe that William Hill is a
market leader, has the capacity to
operate approximately 630
telephone bet capture positions at
call centres in Leeds and Sheffield.
As at 26 December 2006, the
business had 160,000 active accounts
(27 December 2005 – 174,000);
• Interactive betting includes an
online sportsbook
(www.williamhill.com), arcade games
(www.williamhillgames.com), an online
casino (www.williamhillcasino.com)
and online poker site (www.
williamhillpoker.com). The Group
accepted its first bet via the internet in
1998 and the casino was launched in
conjunction with Cryptologic Inc at the
end of 1999. The offering was
enhanced by the introduction of
arcade games in 2002 and the launch
of a dedicated poker site in January
2003. Also in 2003, Boss Media AB was
introduced as a second supplier of
casino software, a Euro denominated
casino was launched and an integrated
sportsbook and casino account was
offered to customers. Enhancements in
the interactive offering through
improvements in functionality and
product development continue to be
made and in 2006 we increased our
range of in-running opportunities and
launched additional arcade games. As
at 26 December 2006, the business had
405,000 active accounts (27 December
2005 – 341,000).
Operating and regulatory environment
Historically, the Group’s business has
proven to be less exposed to the
economic cycle than many other
consumer facing industries. Consumer
spending in the UK grew at close to its
long-term trend in 2006, which may have
impacted the Group’s financial
performance. However this impact cannot
be quantified.
The business is defined and constrained
by legislation. Recent legislation
comprises the Gambling Act 2005, which
is expected to be fully implemented in
Operating and Financial Review
Operating and Financial Review
The OFR discusses the following areas:
Operations Page 7
Long term strategy Page 8
Key performance indicators Page 9
Results for 2006 Page 10
Future outlook Page 10
Risks and uncertainties Page 11
Resources and relationships Page 11
Financial review Page 12 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
8
September 2007 and establishes a new
regulatory regime for the industry. DCMS
and the Gambling Commission are
currently formulating and consulting on
the detailed regulations, conditions, codes
and standards that it will apply to the
Group’s business from September. The
Group has engaged fully with DCMS and
the Gambling Commission during this
important consultation period.
The Group’s businesses are properly
licensed in the UK to accept sports and
other bets and in the Netherlands Antilles
to operate online casino and poker sites.
Our approach is that each customer must
take responsibility for complying with
local laws in respect of betting and
gaming that differs across jurisdictions.
Where considered necessary, the directors
obtain independent legal advice
concerning the state of betting and
gaming laws in particular jurisdictions. 
Our policy not to accept sports bets from
customers based in the United States
remained unchanged in 2006 and in
September 2006, we ceased taking any
gaming transactions from US resident
customers or those using US registered
credit cards. Subsequently the Unlawful
Internet Gambling Enforcement Act was
introduced in the US.
The Group closely monitors the
development of tax policy by the
Government in relation to betting and
gaming. It seeks to lobby Government to
ensure a fair and equitable approach to
the taxation of different forms of
gambling and various platforms, and to
minimise the likelihood that the regime
for gross profit tax might be changed to
the detriment of the Group.
The Group in conjunction with other
bookmakers continues to make a variety
of statutory, voluntary and commercial
payments to various sporting bodies. In
addition, the Group makes commercial
payments through Bookmakers Afternoon
Greyhound Services Limited (BAGS) for
the right to screen pictures from various
horse and greyhound racetracks in LBOs.
These issues are discussed further in the
Chief Executive review under the heading
“Cost of content” .
Competition
The Group faces competition primarily
from other bookmakers, betting
exchanges, other interactive operators
and, to some extent, the National Lottery.
The directors do not believe that the
Group currently faces significant
competition from other participants in the
gaming industry, namely casinos, bingo
halls and football pools. However,
competition may increase as betting and
gaming products converge, the number
of casinos in the UK increases significantly,
the new Gambling Act comes into force
and as a result of technological
developments.
The Group’s principal competitors in the
UK retail market are Ladbrokes and Coral,
with William Hill and Ladbrokes having the
largest LBO estates. Ladbrokes, Coral and
the Tote are the Group’s chief competitors
in the UK telephone betting market. In
addition, a number of international
telephone operators compete with the
Group from outside the UK.
The Group faces competition in its
interactive operations from a large
number of UK owned operators (including
Ladbrokes, Coral and various betting
exchanges), as well as operators based
overseas that have entered, and continue
to enter, the interactive market. Relatively
few of these overseas competitors have a
recognisable or long-established brand
name in the UK. The Group competes
overseas with online and off-line
competitors that may have more brand
recognition than William Hill in certain
markets.
Betting exchanges enable person-to
person betting with one person acting as
layer (the role of the traditional
bookmaker) and the other as punter. The
exchange charges a commission on the
winner’s profit and gross profit tax is
levied at 15% on all commission and levy,
if appropriate, is charged at 10% on UK
horseracing commission. The layers and
punters on betting exchanges are not
liable to these charges. William Hill
lobbied strongly against the unfair
advantage enjoyed by layers on betting
exchanges, who compete directly with
traditional bookmakers without paying a
comparable level of gross profit tax or
horseracing levy. This inequitable taxation
of layers on betting exchanges enables
them to offer better prices than the
traditional bookmaker. Despite this
lobbying, the UK Government concluded
in December 2005 that current taxation
arrangements remain appropriate. The
main impact of this competitive
advantage manifests itself in starting
prices, at which most off-course bets are
placed, and theoretical horseracing
margins, which have been falling in recent
years, as on-course bookmakers have
been able to hedge their liabilities on
betting exchanges and reduce the
margins at which they bet. William Hill has
switched hedging activity from the on-
course market to betting exchanges in an
attempt to reverse the fall in margins. 
Long term strategy
The Group continues to pursue a strategy
aimed at delivering sustainable earnings
growth and value for shareholders. The
key elements of the strategy are to:
• Continue to enhance traditional
earnings and maximise organic
growth opportunities;
• Profitably exploit new platforms;
• Capitalise on opportunities from
regulatory, fiscal and technological
change; and
• Selectively pursue value-enhancing
acquisitions.
The Board monitors performance against
the strategy by:
• Establishing an annual plan
incorporating strategic objectives and
monitoring results against that plan;
• Monitoring performance against key
competitors;
• Evaluating new business
development opportunities against
stringent financial criteria and
alternative uses of capital;
• Playing an active role in regulatory
and fiscal matters which could
influence the business; and
• Identifying and implementing
technological change which is
expected to benefit the business.
Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9
Key performance indicators
The Board sees earnings per share growth
as the key indicator of the Group’s success
in delivering sustainable earnings growth
and enhancing shareholder value. The key
performance indicators (KPIs) used by the
Board in monitoring earnings per share
growth are as follows:
• Gross win (represents total customer
stakes less customer winnings);
• Gross profit (represents gross win
less cost of sales);
• Operating expenses;
• Interest charges and cover; and
• Effective tax rate.
The Board also utilises a range of
measures designed to determine 
performance at a channel and product
level, the more important of which are:
• Gross win percentage by channel;
• Operating margin by channel and by
product;
• Average profit per LBO;
• Average profit per active
Telephone/Interactive customer
where profit is operating profit as
shown in note 2 of the Group
financial statements and an active
customer is defined as one who has
placed a bet with their own money in
the last 12 months; and
• Return on incremental capital
invested (for example, in relation to
investment in the retail estate, the
Group seeks returns on capital
invested of 20% on new licences,
15% on resites and extensions and
10% on refurbishments).
To assess the capital structure, the Board
focuses on the ratio of net debt to
earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA),
which is managed to ensure an efficient
balance sheet and is a key driver of overall
distribution policy.
In addition to these financial indicators a
number of non-financial indicators are
also used including numbers of betting
slips processed and the number of active
customers in the remote channels. The
Corporate Responsibility Committee also
monitors a number of KPIs on behalf of
the Board to ensure that the Group is
meeting its corporate and social
responsibilities. This is further discussed in
the Corporate Responsibility section of
the Annual Report.
Targets for certain KPIs are set on an annual
basis as part of the Group’s operational
objectives for the coming year having
regard to historic levels, expected new
developments and the Group’s strategy.
In 2006, basic EPS was 45.5 pence. Growth
in gross win was just below internal
targets while gross profit growth was just
above our internal target. Both gross win
and gross profit exceeded the levels
achieved in the comparative period due to
factors explained in the Chief Executive’s
Review. Growth in operating expenses was
contained within tight targets.
Operating margins were at acceptable
levels for the Retail and Telephone
businesses but fell below expectations for
the Interactive business.
With regard to financial structure the
Board believes that the Group should
target a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5
times with any excess capital returned to
shareholders through a combination of
dividends and an ongoing on-market
share buy-back programme, to the extent
that there is no alternative value-added
use of the funds.
Operating and Financial Review
A comparison of KPIs in the 2006 and 2005 financial years is shown below:
Group KPIs 2006 2005
actual actual
Growth in gross win (1) 6% 2%
Growth in gross profit (1) 6% 3%
Growth in operating expenses (1) 6% 6%
Net interest expense (excl exceptionals) £56.8m £41.0m
Interest cover (EBIT/net finance costs) 5.1 6.0
Effective tax rate (excluding exceptional items
and associate income) 29.6% 29.5%
Gross win percentage by channel (2)
OTC 16% 16%
T elephone 9% 9%
Interactive sportsbook and arcade 6% 7%
Operating margin by channel
Retail 31% 30%
T elephone 29% 24%
Interactive 47% 50%
Average profit per LBO (1) £110,000 £103,000
Average profit per active Interactive customer £152 £179
Average profit per active Telephone customer £104 £75
Net debt/EBITDA (3) 3.3 3.4
(1) Excludes Stanley Retail.
(2) Gross win percentage by product is monitored internally but not publicly disclosed.
(3) Net debt is before offset of finance fees. William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
10
Results for 2006
Current and future development and
performance
A summary of the key financial results is
set out in the table above and discussed
in this section. 
Growth in gross win has been achieved
through the acquisition of Stanley Retail
and growth in the existing Retail,
Telephone and Interactive businesses.
Details of performance are described in
more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review.
In the Retail business, key trends include
the improvement in relative profitability of
the Stanley Retail estate compared to the
LBOs in the old William Hill estate,
increased income from FOBTs across the
estate and a flat performance from OTC. It
is believed that OTC business was
impacted by cannibalisation of income by
FOBTs. FOBTs benefited from improved
densities and popularity of new products. 
Gross win in the Telephone sportsbook
benefited from the World Cup and some
high roller activity especially in the second
half.
Interactive gross win grew in all areas over
the year but the second half in particular
was impacted by strong competition
following the legislative changes in the US.
GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs
of sale (excluding pay-outs to customers)
increased 12% to £197.4m (William Hill
excluding Stanley Retail increased 3% to
£166.8m) and includes gross profit tax,
VAT on FOBTs and AWPs, levies paid to the 
horse and greyhound racing industries
and licence fees incurred in respect of
FOBTs and AWPs, and various royalty
payments to suppliers of FOBTs and
certain services in respect of the online
casino and poker sites.
Gross profit, representing gross win less
GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs
of sales, amounted to £733.9m, an
increase of 16% (William Hill excluding
Stanley Retail increased 6%) over the
comparable period.
Net operating expenses, excluding
exceptional items increased to £445.3m,
an increase of 15% over the comparable
period (William Hill excluding Stanley
Retail increased 6%).
Associate income represents the Group’s
share of profits of its associate company,
Satellite Information Services. Net interest
payable increased to £56.8m, an increase
of 39% against the comparable period
due to the full year effects of the change
in financing arrangements arising from
the acquisition of Stanley Retail and the
significant number of shares repurchased
during the period.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities relates
primarily to the current year and as the
Group earns its profits in the UK is
calculated at 30% of taxable profits being
the current rate of UK corporation tax. The
Group’s effective rate of tax (before
exceptional items and associate income)
was 29.6%, as compared to 29.5% in 2005. 
Basic adjusted earnings per share were
45.5 pence, a 24% increase compared to
the pre-exceptional earnings per share in
the comparable period.
The Group generated net cash inflow from
operating activities before financing and
tax of £313.9m, an increase of 30% against
the comparable period. The Group paid
£55.4m in net debt service costs, £53.9m
in corporation tax, invested a net £67.9m
in capital expenditure, paid £70.9m in
dividends and spent £178.4m purchasing
its own shares.
Net indebtedness increased to £1,043.4m
at 26 December 2006 (27 December 2005
– £939.5m).
Future outlook
We made significant progress in the year
in a number of elements of our strategy
as described in the Chief Executive’s
Review including the development of our
international business. Detailed plans
have been made with our partner Codere
to exploit opportunities in Spain and Italy.
The Group plans to invest circa £25m to
pursue these opportunities in the short
term but this amount could be exceeded
dependant on the speed and nature of
deregulation and the opportunities that
become available in those markets.
The Group continues to invest in
developing each of its businesses to
underpin its future growth prospects.
It plans to continue to invest circa £50m
per annum in the retail estate. The Group
has also earmarked £18m for investment
in 2007 and 2008 in new and improved
technology platforms and core
bookmaking systems that will ultimately
benefit all three channels. The directors
also consider opportunities to acquire
additional good quality LBOs and in early
2007, paid £25m for two small chains
comprising 29 LBOs in total. All
investment and acquisition proposals are
evaluated against strict criteria that focus
on return on capital and payback period.
As previously discussed, the US has now
in effect closed its market to offshore
remote gambling, while Asian markets
remain difficult to penetrate due to the
Operating and Financial Review
Key financials Gross win Operating profit
2006 2005 2006 2005
Retail – WH 584.3 552.7 181.0 166.0
Retail – Stanley 151.7 70.7 44.9 15.6
Total Retail 736.0 623.4 225.9 181.6
T elephone 57.5 53.4 16.7 13.0
Interactive 130.5 123.3 61.5 61.2
Other 7.3 7.6 (0.6) (0.1)
Overheads less associate income – – (11.3) (10.7)
931.3 807.7 292.2 245.0 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
11
legal environment and restrictions on
payment methods.
2006 has seen differing approaches taken
by countries within Europe with some
increased protectionist activity, in
particular in France and Germany, and
some local liberalisation in Italy and
Madrid. The Group works with its trade
association to push for compliance with
the EU Treaty by members states and to
push for a fair and proportionate
regulatory regime when local laws are
being reviewed. The EU Commission has
been active in asking various countries to
explain how their gambling laws comply
with EU law.
In the coming year we expect to:
• Maximise revenues in each channel
through specific initiatives;
• Manage the cost base to ensure
efficient use of resources;
• Manage the effects of the smoking
ban;
• Continue to invest in the LBO estate
through our ongoing development
programme; and
• Make significant progress on key
technology programmes.
Risk and uncertainties
The directors are seeking to build an
increasingly profitable business by
exploiting its resources and relationships
and, at the same time, carefully managing
the risks to the operation. Such risks
include: 
• The potential impact of legislative
changes and the activities of
regulators in the UK and overseas on
the Group’s scope and conduct of
operations and ability to accept
gambling transactions;
• The potential impact of changes to
the UK fiscal environment; 
• The effects of the smoking ban to be
enforced in England and Wales in
2007;
• The ability of the Group to manage
its bookmaking risk; 
• The relationship with key suppliers,
most notably the horse and
greyhound industries;
• The amounts required to be paid by
levies and fees to certain sporting
bodies under various arrangements;
• The potential threat represented by
competitors based in the UK and
overseas;
• The risk that key technology or
information systems could fail;
• The impact of weather or other
factors on the sporting programme;
• The loss of key personnel;
• The risk of a prolonged economic
recession or other geo-political
events that may result in a reduction
of betting activity;
• The risk that intermediaries such as
banks refuse to accept credit and
debit card transactions connected
with gambling; and
• The risk resulting from any inability
of the Group to service its debt
obligations. 
The Board routinely monitors all the
above risks and appropriate actions are
taken to mitigate the risks or their
potential adverse consequences. The Chief
Executive’s Review further expands on
certain issues that fall into the above
description of risk factors. 
Resources and relationships
The Group seeks to exploit a number of
assets and resources that are not
necessarily reflected in its financial
statements including:
• A market leading position in all major
betting channels in the UK with an
established international presence;
• A long-established and widely
recognised brand, with a strong
reputation for quality;
• An extensive and high quality estate
of betting shops which benefit from
significant sustained investment and
ongoing refurbishment and
improvements;
• An effective risk management system
and significant bookmaking
experience;
• A focus on sustainable and profitable
growth and tight management of
costs;
• Strong cash flow generation;
• A track record of innovation and
profitably exploiting regulatory, fiscal
and technological change; and
• A strong management team and
workforce of over 13,000 trained
employees.
The directors believe that such resources
help to secure the Group’s position at the
forefront of the betting and gaming
industry and ensure it is well placed to
compete and develop its business in the
future.
Our customers and employees are key to
our success and our Corporate
Responsibility (CR) section on pages 37 to
38 provides further information on our
policies and practices in these areas, as
well as details of other key CR issues for
the Group.
The Group also has a number of key
suppliers who provide products and
services to the Group. Two of our most
significant relationships in the Retail
business are with Leisure Link, the major
supplier of FOBTs to our LBOs in Great
Britain, and Alphameric, who supply and
maintain the Group’s EPOS systems. SIS, in
which the Group has a shareholding, is
the main provider of pictures and data
into our LBOs. The Group also has
arrangements with the various horse and
greyhound tracks via BAGS for the right to
screen pictures. 
Our two online casino providers
Cryptologic Inc and Boss Media AB are
important suppliers to the Interactive
business. Our bankers are important
providers of funding and financing
products as well as providing daily
banking facilities through our distribution
channels.
William Hill operates in a regulated
environment where the potential risks
identified previously include adverse
changes to the regulatory and tax
regimes. The Group both on its own and
via trade associations maintains an
ongoing dialogue with the DCMS and HM
Treasury as well as with the Gambling
Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
12
Commission. The Commission and DCMS
are finalising some and consulting on
other key regulations, conditions, codes
and standards that it is anticipated will
apply from September 2007. It is expected
that final documentation will be in place
by the end of June 2007. We have
provided, and will continue to provide,
feedback on various consultation
documents issued by the Commission
and DCMS and we will analyse the impact
of finalised documentation on the Group’s
business.
The Government and the Commission
have identified responsible gambling as a
key area of focus and we have a regular
dialogue with DCMS, the Commission,
GamCare, the Responsibility in Gambling
Trust and trade associations in this area.
We also, via relevant trade associations,
have arrangements for alerting sports
regulatory bodies to potential sports
integrity issues.
The Group is a major contributor to the
horse and greyhound racing industries via
the statutory levy and voluntary levy
respectively.
Financial review
Returns to shareholders
The Company paid an interim dividend of
7.25 pence per share and the directors
have proposed a final dividend of 14.5
pence per share that will bring total
dividends to 21.75 pence per share, a 19%
increase over the amount paid in respect
of the comparable period. The proposed
level of total dividend corresponds to a
dividend cover ratio of 2.1 times
(27 December 2005 – 2.0 times). The
Company normally aims to pay interim
and final dividends that represent about
one third and two thirds, respectively, of
total dividends.
The Company obtained a renewed
authority from shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting held in May 2006 to buy-
back up to 10% of the issued share capital.
In 2006, the Company bought back 7% of
its opening share capital, all of which was
cancelled. The aggregate cost (after
expenses and stamp duty) of the acquired
7% of issued share capital was £178.4m.
From June 2002, the date of its initial
public offering to the end of 2006, the
Company bought back a total of 17% of
its issued share capital (inclusive of shares
bought back into treasury) returning
£402.5m to shareholders and paid
dividends totalling a further £248.0m
(excluding the proposed dividend of 14.5
pence per share to be paid in April 2007).
Approximately 2% of the issued share
capital at the end of 2006 is retained in
treasury shares to meet future awards
under the Group’s various incentive and
share remuneration schemes.
Financial structure and liquidity
The Group’s acquisition of Stanley Retail
during 2005 required funding and gave
the Board the opportunity to give further
consideration to the appropriate financing
arrangements for the enlarged Group to
achieve an efficient capital structure.
Accordingly, the Group secured new
facilities of £1.2bn with a consortium of
banks. £600m of the new facilities has
been structured as a five-year revolving
credit facility and £600m as a five-year
term loan. These facilities were used to
fund the acquisition and to repay the
Group’s previous bank debt facilities in
June 2005. In June 2006, the Group
arranged a further new five-year bank
facility of £250m. The directors believe
that these facilities are currently sufficient
to meet the projected working capital
needs of the Group.
The Company has hedged its exposure to
interest rates on its floating rate debt by
entering into a series of interest rate
swaps and collars. As at 31 December
2006, approximately 40% of its forecast
exposure is fixed via interest rate swaps
reducing to 30% by the end of 2009. A
further 40% is subject to interest rate
collar arrangements as at 31 December
2006, also reducing to 30% by the end of
2009.
The remaining exposure is at floating
rates. The Board will continue to review
periodically the borrowing and hedging
arrangements to ensure that they remain
appropriate to the needs of the Group
and take account of changes in market
conditions and business plans.
The Board will target a ratio of net debt to
EBITDA of approximately 3.5 times to be
achieved over the medium term. In July
2006, the Board announced with its
interim results that they were increasing
the total buy-back programme from the
previously announced target of £200m –
£300m, to circa £320m – £400m by the
end of 2007. By the end of December
2006, the Group net debt to EBITDA ratio
was 3.3 and £257.0m had been returned
by means of on-market share buy-backs.
As we are now close to our target
leverage and as we have current
investment opportunities both
internationally and in respect of some
retail bolt-on acquisitions, we currently
estimate that the pace of our rolling share
buyback programme in 2007 is likely to
slow. We remain committed to returning
surplus capital to shareholders and our
buyback programme will be kept under
regular review.
Adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The Group has prepared its financial
statements for the 52 week period ended
26 December 2006 using accounting
policies consistent with IFRS.
The main impacts of the IFRS adoption
are set out in note 37 of the Group
financial statements. As previously
indicated, the impact on Group
profitability is negligible and the
adjustment to the balance sheet reflects
primarily timing differences on the
recognition of dividends and the
presentation of goodwill, intangible assets
and deferred tax balances. 
In addition to these differences, there is a
further presentational issue related to IFRS
that impacts the financial information.
Sportsbook bets have many of the
characteristics of a derivative transaction
as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement’and
consequently the Group has accounted for
them under the provisions of that
accounting standard. The main effect of
this is that the amount recognised as
revenue/turnover is now the profit and loss
of trading those sportsbook bets rather
than the amount originally staked. This is
quite close to the gross win as previously
disclosed by the Group except for a
difference in respect of the treatment of
VAT levied on FOBTs and AWPs. To prevent
distortions in the year-on-year growth rates
achieved by the Group, we have continued
to disclose gross win in the Chief Executive
Review and OFR as previously defined. 
The following is a reconciliation for the
periods presented between gross win and
revenue as disclosed in the attached
financial statements:
Operating and Financial Review
52 weeks 52 weeks
to 26 Dec to 27 Dec
2006 2005
£m £m
Gross win 931.3 807.7
VAT on AWPs and FOBTs (37.1) (2.4)
Revenue 894.2 805.3 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
13
Charles Scott
Non Executive Chairman
Barry Gibson
Senior Independent Non Executive
Director
David Harding
Chief Executive
David Allvey
Independent non executive director
Simon Lane
Group Finance Director
David Edmonds
Independent non executive director
Board of Directors
Board of Directors William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
14
Charles Scott 
Non Executive Chairman
(appointed 1 January 2004)
Responsibilities: 
Chairman of the Board with responsibility for
best practice corporate governance
Board Committees:
Nomination Committee (Chairman)
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Current Directorships:
InTechnology PLC (Non executive director)
Emcore Corporation (Non executive director) 
Flybe Group Limited (Non executive director)
Former roles:
Chairman, Saatchi & Saatchi PLC
Chairman, Cordiant Communications Group
PLC
Chairman, Robert Walters PLC
Non executive director, adidas-Salomon AG 
Senior Independent Non Executive Director,
TBI PLC 
Chief Financial Officer, IMS International
Qualifications: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 58
Y ear of appointment: 2002
David Harding
Chief Executive 
Responsibilities: 
Responsibility for the Group’s overall
strategic direction and the day-to-day
management and profitability of the Group’s
operations. 
Board committees:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Former roles: 
Deputy Chief Executive, Scottish Amicable
Managing Director, Prudential Life and
Pensions
Managing Director, Charles Schwab Europe
Chief Operating Officer, ShareLink
Operations Director, Mercury Personal
Communications 
Senior Consultant, PA Consulting Group
Qualifications: 
MBA Warwick University
Age: 51
Simon Lane
Group Finance Director 
(appointed 20 March 2006)
Responsibilities: 
Finance, strategic planning, investor
relations, security and internal audit.
Former roles: 
Finance Director, Center Parcs (UK) Group plc
Group Finance Director, Albert Fisher Group
plc
Director of Corporate Finance, Safeway plc 
Financial Controller, Mars Confectionary 
Qualifications: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 43
David Allvey 
Independent non executive
director
Board Committees:
Audit and Risk Management Committee
(Chairman)
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships:
Resolution PLC (Non executive director)
Costain Group PLC (Non executive director)
Intertek Group PLC (Non executive director)
Mytravel Group PLC (Non executive director)
Arena Coventry Ltd (Chairman)
Former roles: 
Group Finance Director, BAT Industries PLC
Group Operation Officer, Zurich Financial
Services PLC
Group Finance Director, Barclays Bank PLC
Non executive director, McKechnie Group
PLC
Member of the UK Accounting Standards
Board
Member of International Accounting
Standards Insurance Group
Chairman of the Fiscal Committee of the 100
Group of UK Finance Directors
Qualifications: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 61
Y ear of appointment: 2002
David Edmonds, CBE, D.Litt.
Independent non executive
director
Board Committees:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
(Chairman)
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships:
Hammerson plc (Non executive director)
Wincanton plc (Non executive director)
Other Organisations:
Chairman, NHS Shared Business Services
Chairman of NHS Direct Special Health
Authority
Legal Services Commissioner
Trustee of the Social Market Foundation
Board member of Keele University Science &
Business Park Ltd
Former roles: 
Director General of Telecommunications at
Oftel
Board Member, Office of Communications
Managing Director, Group Central Services,
at the National Westminster Group
Chief Executive of the Housing Corporation
Qualifications: 
BA (Hons), University of Keele
Age: 62
Y ear of appointment: 2005
J M Barry Gibson
Senior Independent Non
Executive Director
Responsibilities: 
Senior Independent Non Executive Director
undertaking duties as identified in the
Combined Code.
Board Committees:
Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Nomination Committee
Current Directorships:
National Express Group Plc (Senior
Independent Director)
Homeserve PLC (Non executive director)
Industry Bodies:
Chairman and Trustee Retail Trust (charity)
Former roles: 
Group Chief Executive, Littlewoods Plc
Group Retail Director, BAA Plc
Non executive director, Limelight Plc 
Non executive director, Somerfield PLC
Age: 55
Y ear of appointment: 2002
Board of Directors
Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer
(Legal Advisors)
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Deloitte & Touche LLP
(Auditors)
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Brunswick Group Ltd 
(Financial Public
Relations)
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
London WC2A 3ED
Citigroup
(Financial Advisors and
Corporate
Stockbrokers)
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Capita IRG
(Registrars)
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Y orkshire
HD8 OLD
Professional Advisers William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
15
Results and dividends
The Group’s profit on ordinary activities
after taxation and exceptional items was
£166.8m (52 weeks ended 27 December
2005 – £113.1m). The directors
recommend a final dividend of 14.5 pence
per share to be paid on 5 June 2007 to
ordinary shareholders on the Register of
Members on 27 April 2007 which,
together with the interim dividend of 7.25
pence per share paid on 5 December
2006, makes a total of 21.75 pence per
share for the period (52 weeks ended 27
December 2005 – 18.3 pence per share).
Directors
The directors who served during the
period and up to 5 March 2007 comprise:
Charles Scott Non Executive Chairman 
David Harding Chief Executive 
Simon Lane Group Finance Director
(appointed 20 March
2006)
Tom Singer Chief Operating Officer
(resigned 6 November
2006)
David Allvey Independent non 
executive director
Barry Gibson Senior Independent non
executive director 
David Edmonds Independent non
executive director
Details of committee membership is set
out on page 27.
Details of the directors’ interests are set
out in note 2 of the parent company
financial statements.
Directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance
Pursuant to Article 214 of the Articles of
Association and subject to the provisions
of the Companies Act, the directors and
officers of the Company shall be
indemnified out of the assets of the
Company, against liability in defending
proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in
which judgment is given in his favour or
in which he is acquitted or in connection
with any application in which relief is
granted to him by the court from liability
for negligence, default, breach of duty or
breach of trust in relation to the affairs of
the Company. In addition the Group has
purchased and maintains directors’ and
officers’ insurance cover against certain
legal liabilities and costs for claims
incurred in respect of any act or omission
in the execution of their duties.
Directors proposed for re-
election
Messrs. Allvey and Edmonds retire by
rotation at the next Annual General
Meeting and offer themselves for re-
election.
Please refer to page 14 for biographies of
the current directors. 
Supplier payments policy
The Group does not have a formal code
on payment practice but it is the Group’s
policy to settle terms of payment with
suppliers when agreeing the terms of
each transaction, ensure that suppliers are
made aware of the terms of payment and
abide by the terms of payment. Trade
creditors of the Group at 26 December
2006 were equivalent to 19 days’
purchases (27 December 2005 – 19 days’
purchases), based on the average daily
amount invoiced by suppliers during the
period.
Charitable contributions
During the period the Group made
charitable donations of £423,000
(52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 –
£351,000) principally to industry related
charities serving the communities in
which the Group operates.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Report
Location in
Annual Report Page
Principal activities, products and services, objectives
and strategy, competition and the markets in
which the Group operates OFR 7 to 8
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group OFR 11
Review of the development and performance Chief 
of the business, for 52 weeks ended Executive
26 December 2006 Review 4 to 6
Financial position of the Group as at 
26 December 2006 OFR 10
Key Performance Indicators OFR 9
Future prospects of the business OFR 10 to 11
The Directors present their Annual Report
on the activities of the Group, together
with the financial statements and
Auditors’ Report, for the 52 weeks ended
26 December 2006.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group during
the period continue to be the operation of
licensed betting offices and the provision
of telephone and internet betting and
online casino and poker services. The
subsidiary and associated undertakings
principally affecting the profits or net
assets of the Group are listed in note 14 of
the Group financial statements.
Business review
The Operating and Financial Review on
pages 7 to 12 is prepared with reference
to the guidance in the Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Reporting Statement:
Operating and Financial Review’ (which
following the removal of the statutory
requirement for an OFR is considered best
practice) and for the purpose of the
business review must be read in
conjunction with the Chief Executive’s
Review on pages 4 to 6. The areas covered
are as follows: William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
16
Substantial shareholdings
On 5 March 2007, the Company had been
notified, in accordance with the Disclosure
and Transparency Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, of the notifiable
interests in the ordinary share capital of
the Company set out in the table below.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled
persons are always fully and fairly
considered, bearing in mind the aptitude
and ability of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff
becoming disabled every effort is made to
ensure that their employment within the
Group continues and that appropriate
training is arranged. It continues to be the
policy of the Group that the training,
career development and promotion of
disabled persons should as far as is
feasible be identical to that of other
employees.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on
the involvement of its employees and has
continued to keep them informed on
matters affecting them as employees and
on the various factors affecting the
performance of the Group. This is
achieved through formal and informal
meetings and the Group magazine
“Will2win” . Employee representatives are
consulted regularly on a wide range of
matters affecting their current and future
interests. During the period a revised
approach to employee consultation has
been implemented and further details of
this are set out on page 38.
The Company operates a SAYE Share
Option Scheme (Scheme) which is open
to all eligible employees based on a three,
five or seven year monthly savings
contract. Options under the Scheme are
granted with an exercise price up to 20%
below the prevailing share price. The
maximum permissible monthly savings
under the Scheme is £250.
Authority to purchase own
shares 
In accordance with the Company’s stated
policy of maintaining the optimum capital
structure, and pursuant to the Company’s
on-going authority from shareholders to
make market purchases of its own shares,
the Company purchased and
subsequently cancelled 29,107,738
ordinary shares during the year. These
shares had an aggregate nominal value of
£2,910,773.80 and were purchased for an
aggregate cost of £178.4m (including
commission and stamp duty) at prices
between £5.52 and £6.50  per ordinary
share.
This authority to purchase own shares
remains valid until the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting, when it is
intended that a resolution will be put
forward to shareholders to review.
Auditors and disclosure of
information to auditors
Each of the directors in office at the date
when this report was approved confirms
that:
• So far as the director is aware, there
is no relevant audit information of
which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and
• The director has taken all the steps
that he ought to have taken as a
director in order to make himself
aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
The confirmation should be interpreted in
accordance with Section 234ZA of the
Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte &
Touche LLP as the Company’s auditors will
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Thomas Murphy
General Counsel & Company Secretary
5 March 2007 
Registered Office:
Greenside House,
50 Station Road,
Wood Green,
London N22 7TP
Directors’ Report
Substantial shareholdings
Percentage
Name of holder Number of shares shareholding
MFS Investment Management 46,966,799 13.26
Capital Research and Management 38,904,475 11.02
Ballie Gifford & Co 20,331,493 5.91
Barclays 13,921,372 3.94
Fidelity 13,375,148 3.79
Legal & General 12,529,977 3.55 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
17
Introduction
This report has been prepared in
accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations
(Regulations). The report also meets the
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority and
describes how the Board has applied the
Principles of Good Governance relating to
directors’ remuneration. The Committee
has also in preparing this report
considered the guidance issued by the
National Association of Pension Funds and
the ABI. As required by the Regulations, a
resolution to approve the report will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting of the Company.
The Regulations require the auditors to
report to the Company’s shareholders on
the “auditable part” of the Directors’
Remuneration Report and to state
whether in their opinion that part of the
report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985
(as amended by the Regulations). The
report has therefore been divided into
separate sections for audited and
unaudited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Company has established a
Remuneration Committee (Committee),
which is constituted in accordance with
the recommendations of the Combined
Code. It determines and agrees with the
Board the Company’s policy and
framework for the remuneration of
executive directors and the Chairman,
and determines the specific remuneration
packages for each of the executive
directors and other senior management
including basic salary, other benefits and
any compensation payments. 
Details of the membership of the
Remuneration Committee, together with
the year in which membership
commenced are set out above. All
members of the Committee have been
independent non executive directors. 
No director plays a part in any discussion
about his own remuneration. 
In determining the directors’
remuneration, the Committee appointed
Towers Perrin to provide advice on
structuring remuneration packages for the
executive directors and senior
management. The Committee also
consulted Mr Harding (Chief Executive)
and Mr Russell (Group Director, Human
Resources) about its proposals relating to
individuals other than themselves. Towers
Perrin did not provide any other services
to the Group. Advice was also received
from the Group’s lawyers, Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer and the Company
Secretary in relation to legal matters.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been
designed to ensure that the Group has
the ability to attract and retain senior
managers of a high calibre, align the
interests of the senior management with
that of the shareholders and be compliant
with best practice. The performance
measurement of the key members of
senior management and the
determination of their annual
remuneration packages are undertaken
by the Committee. The remuneration of
the non executive directors is determined
by the Board within limits set out in the
Articles of Association. This report sets out
the Company’s policy on senior
management remuneration for 2007 and,
so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
This policy will continue unless changed
by the Committee, and any changes in
policy for years after 2007 will be
described in future Directors’
Remuneration Reports, which will
continue to be subject to shareholder
approval. The Committee considers that a
successful remuneration policy needs to
be sufficiently flexible to take account of
future changes in the Group’s business
environment and in remuneration
practice.
There are four main elements of the
remuneration package for senior
management:
• Basic annual salary and benefits;
• Bonus payments;
• Long term incentives; and
• Pension arrangements.
The Group’s policy is to position the basic
salaries of the senior management around
the median of the relevant market,
(to ensure they remain competitive)
with a substantial proportion of their
remuneration being performance related. 
The Committee has recently undertaken a
comprehensive review of the Company’s
incentive arrangements for senior
management, focusing on the
appropriate balance between annual and
long-term incentives. Major shareholders
are currently being consulted over the
Committee’s proposals. Subject to a
successful outcome to this consultation
process, the Committee is proposing to
introduce a new executive share plan –
the Executive Bonus Matching Scheme
(EBMS) – to replace the existing bonus
deferral plan (the Deferred Bonus Plan)
and the existing long term incentive plan
(the Performance Share Plan). It is
proposed to seek shareholder approval for
the EBMS under an ordinary resolution at
the AGM. Full details of the EBMS are set
out in an appendix to the Notice of AGM.
Related information in respect of revised
bonus arrangements is set out on
page 18.
Executive directors are required to obtain
the Board’s prior written consent to
accept external appointments. They
currently hold no such positions.
Basic annual salary and benefits
The salaries of senior management are
reviewed on 1 March each year. Individual
pay levels, within the competitive market,
are determined by reference to
performance, experience and potential.
Benchmarks for comparison purposes are
based on companies within the Towers
Perrin executive survey with a similar size
and scope to William Hill. The Group
believes that this is the most appropriate
comparator group for these purposes. 
The basic salaries of Messrs. Harding and
Singer were reviewed in March 2006. Mr
Harding’s salary was increased by 13.6%
to £500,000 and Mr Singer had his salary
increased by 4.5% to £345,000. Simon
Lane joined the Group on 20 March 2006
on a salary of £250,000, which was
subsequently reviewed on 1st July 2006
and increased by 10% to £275,000. With
the exception of Mr Singer, who left the
Group in November 2006, these salaries
remained in effect at the year-end. The
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Director Y ear of appointment
Barry Gibson, Chairman 2002
David Allvey 2003
David Edmonds 2005 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
18
basic salaries of other senior management
were reviewed and increased by between
4% and 34% in March 2006. Increases at
the higher end of this range relate to
individuals who have taken on
significantly increased responsibility
during the period and based on an
external assessment of appropriate salary
levels for the revised roles. In setting
salary levels the Committee is sensitive to
pay and conditions elsewhere in the
Group. The general level of increase for
the vast majority of other employees was
3%, with a limited number of employees
receiving rises above this level (where
performance merited it) up to a maximum
increase of 18%. 
With effect from 1 March 2007, the basic
salaries of Messrs. Harding and Lane were
increased by 6% and 3.6% to £530,000
and £285,000 respectively. 
In addition to basic salary, senior
management receive other competitive
benefits, such as a fully expensed car or
car allowance, private health cover and
permanent health insurance. It is intended
to continue to provide these benefits but
retain the flexibility to provide a cash
alternative for any or all of these
according to individual circumstances.
Bonus payments
Executives are eligible to participate in a
senior management bonus scheme that is
reviewed by the Committee on an annual
basis to determine the most appropriate
performance measure for that year. For
2006, this comprised the Group’s financial
performance as measured by profit on
ordinary activities before exceptional
items, finance charges and taxation (PBIT)
and provided for a target payment of 40%
of basic salary and a maximum payment
of 75% of salary, two-thirds of which is
payable in cash with the remaining third
paid in shares on a deferred basis. As
described below, these percentages and
proportions will be altered if the EBMS
takes effect.
A Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by
shareholders in 2005 as a vehicle through
which the share element of the executive
annual bonus scheme can be delivered.
The Deferred Bonus Plan provides that
awards under the plan are released to the
relevant individual after a further three-
year period and provides that awards will
lapse where a participant leaves
employment, unless otherwise stated in
the Bonus Scheme rules or otherwise
determined by the Remuneration
Committee.
Bonus payments for Messrs. Harding and
Lane for the 52 weeks ended 26
December 2006 were 56% of basic
salaries, two-thirds of which is payable in
cash with the remaining third payable in
shares in March 2010, the third
anniversary of the cash bonus payment,
on the terms described above. If the EBMS
is approved by the shareholders at the
AGM, the amount of bonus paid in shares
for 2006 will be adjusted as described
below.
Mr Singer ceased employment with the
Group on 6 November 2006 as a result of
redundancy. On termination, the
Company exercised its right to make a
payment in lieu of notice and details of
the payment made are set out on page
22. This figure was calculated in
accordance with Mr Singer’s service
contract and includes a pro-rated bonus
in respect of completed months of service
during 2006.
As part of the Committee’s review of
incentive arrangements for senior
management, and subject to the EBMS
being approved at the AGM, it is
proposed that the annual bonus
opportunity for 2007 and future years will
be increased both at target and maximum
bonus. For executive directors, the target
payment will be increased to 90% of
salary and the maximum payment will be
increased to 165% of salary. It is proposed
that, in the case of executive directors,
30% of any annual bonus will be paid in
cash and the remaining 70% will be paid
in shares on a deferred basis via the EBMS.
Bonus payments for 2007 and future years
for certain senior executives below Board
level will be paid in cash as to one half
with the other half paid in shares on a
deferred basis via the EBMS. 
If the EBMS is approved by the
shareholders at the AGM, the amount of
bonus paid in shares for 2006 will be
adjusted to facilitate the introduction of
the EBMS and to reflect the fact that no
awards under the PSP will be made this
year. The cash element will remain fixed
(so that two-thirds of 56% of basic salary
will be paid for 2006). Having taken advice
from our remuneration consultants, the
deferred share element (previously one-
third of 56% of basic salary for 2006) will
be increased by 45% of salary to reflect
the expected value lost as a result of the
discontinuation of the PSP and also taking
into consideration the new matching
element attaching to the deferred shares
under the EBMS.
The performance measure for the 2007
bonus will continue to be PBIT. The
Committee believes that this measure
remains the best indicator of short-term
operating performance for bonus
purposes. 
If the EBMS proposal does not proceed for
any reason, the annual bonus plan will
operate in the same way for 2007 as for
2006 and the transitional arrangements
will not apply.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided to drive
performance, aid retention and align the
interests of executives with those of
shareholders. In 2006 the Group made
awards under the Performance Share Plan
(PSP), the details of which are set out below. 
Subject to the successful outcome of
consultation with major shareholders and
to approval of the EBMS by shareholders
at the AGM, it is proposed that, for awards
in 2008 and thereafter, the PSP be
replaced by the EBMS, the details of
which are summarised below. Full details
of the EBMS are set out in an appendix to
the Notice of AGM. A transitional
arrangement for 2007 is needed because
awards under the EBMS relate to actual
bonus in respect of the prior years. Thus,
the first payments under the revised
bonus regime for 2007 will drive EBMS
awards for 2008. A transitional
arrangement for 2007 is proposed and
described above and in the Chairman’s
letter in the Notice of AGM.
As mentioned above, for executive
directors and certain other senior
executives, it is proposed that, from 2008,
the EBMS will replace the PSP and the
Deferred Bonus Plan. Under the EBMS,
executive directors will receive 70% of
their annual bonus (on a pre-tax basis) in
the Company’s shares on deferred terms.
Other senior executives who participate in
the EBMS will compulsorily invest one half
of their annual bonus (again on a pre-tax
basis). If the participant remains in service
for three years, he will be entitled to a
number of matching shares calculated by
reference to the Company’s earnings per
share performance over the three-year
period. At target performance, which is
Consumer Price Index (CPI) plus 3% per
annum, the participant will receive a
match of 50% of the pre-tax amount of
Directors’ Remuneration Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
19
deferred shares. For maximum
performance (CPI plus 9% per annum),
the participant will receive a match of
100% of the pre-tax amount of deferred
shares. The matching shares will vest on a
straight line basis between target and
maximum performance.
Aside from the proposed EBMS, details of
the main features of the three current
share schemes in existence are
summarised below:
(a) The PSP provides for conditional
awards of shares to the value of a
percentage of basic salary. For 2006,
the Committee awarded Messrs.
Harding, Singer and Lane shares to the
value of 200% of salary, with other
senior and middle management
receiving awards of between 50% and
100% of salary (the 2006 Awards).
Under the PSP there are two
performance conditions, relating to: 
• The Group’s real (i.e. over and
above inflation) earnings per share
(Real EPS) growth (which is
calculated excluding exceptional
items); and
• Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance.
The vesting of one half of the 2006
Awards (the EPS Tranche) will depend
on the Company’s growth in Real EPS,
measured in terms of the compound
annual growth in Real EPS achieved
over the three financial years 2006 to
2008 by comparison with Real EPS for
2005. No shares will vest if Real EPS
growth is below 4% per annum, for
4% per annum growth 25% will vest,
and for above 12% growth per annum,
the EPS tranche of the 2006 Awards
will vest in full. The vesting of the
remaining half of the 2006 Awards
(the TSR Tranche) will depend on the
Company’s TSR relative to the
companies ranked 31-100 in the FTSE
100 index on 1 January 2006. No
shares will vest if the TSR ranking is
below the 50th percentile, 25% will
vest at the 50th percentile and at or
above the 90th percentile, this half of
the 2006 Awards will vest in full. In
addition no part of the TSR tranche
will vest if Real EPS of at least 3% per
annum is not achieved. 
For the previous awards made in 2005
only, the Committee decided to make
awards at an enhanced level. Messrs.
Harding and Singer received awards of
shares to the value of 300% of salary,
with other senior and middle
management receiving awards of
between 100% and 200% of salary
(the 2005 Awards). The vesting of one
half of the 2005 Awards (the EPS
Tranche) depended on the Company’s
growth in Real EPS, measured in terms
of the compound annual growth in
Real EPS achieved over the three
financial years 2005 to 2007 by
comparison with EPS for 2004. No
shares will vest if Real EPS growth is
below 4% per annum, for 4% per
annum growth 10% will vest, and for
above 12% growth per annum, this
half of the 2005 Awards will vest in full.
The vesting of the remaining half of
the 2005 Awards (the TSR Tranche)
vests on the same basis as outlined
above for the 2006 Awards.
In order for the 2005 Awards to Messrs.
Harding and Singer to vest they or
their dependants needed to hold
shares (including any vested rights to
acquire shares without payment under
any other employee share scheme)
equal to the maximum number of
shares under the 2005 Awards until 20
June 2008 (that is, the vesting date of
the 2005 Awards). If this requirement is
not met, the 2005 Awards shall lapse
pro-rata to the shortfall in the
shareholding. 
Mr Singer left the business during the
period and retired as a director in
November 2006, when his 2005 and
2006 awards under the PSP lapsed.
(b) The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
was in place for middle and senior
management and was replaced by the
PSP in 2005. The LTIP provided for
conditional awards of shares to a value
of up to 50% of salary (the basic
award) for middle and senior
management and up to a further 50%
(the matching award) for senior
management. The matching award
was on a ratio of not more than one to
one and accordingly the maximum
value of shares that were awarded in
any financial year was 100% of salary.
Release of the shares is dependent
upon the Company’s TSR performance
over a three-year period measured
against the performance of companies
comprising the FTSE 250 (excluding
investment companies) over the same
period and the continued
employment of the individual at the
date of vesting. Shares vest in
proportion to the Company’s TSR
performance. No shares vest if the
Company’s performance is below
median, 20% of shares vest for median
TSR performance and full vesting
requires TSR performance to be in the
top decile compared to the
comparator group. The first award
under the LTIP , structured as a nil cost
option, was granted in March 2003 in
which Messrs. Harding and Singer did
not participate. An award was made in
March 2004, in which Messrs. Harding
and Singer participated.
For the 2004 award, the Company’s
TSR performance against the
comparator group placed it in the 51st
percentile and as a result 22% of the
shares in the basic award and 33% of
the shares in the matching award have
vested. In accordance with the
provisions for termination by reason of
redundancy, Mr. Singer’s 2004 LTIP
award was preserved and vested on a
pro-rata basis, subject to the relevant
performance conditions as at the date
of termination of employment.
(c) The Executive Director Incentive Plan
(EDIP) was established to reward
Messrs. Harding and Singer in the
event of admission of the Company’s
shares to the London Stock Exchange
and will not be repeated. Under the
scheme, each is entitled to an award of
shares, structured as a nil cost option,
which vested in three annual trenches
(30%, 30% and 40%), starting from the
date of the first anniversary of
admission (20 June 2002), subject to
the Company’s TSR performance
against companies in the FTSE 250
(excluding investment companies)
over the period from the date of
admission to the date immediately
preceding each relevant tranche
vesting date. If top quartile TSR
performance were achieved, all the
shares in that tranche would vest. If
median TSR performance was
achieved, half the shares would vest,
and if performance is between the
median and upper quartiles, between
half and the full amount would vest,
on a straight-line basis. No shares
would vest for below median
performance. The three performance
periods were completed by June 2005
and all of the shares have vested. In
accordance with the terms of the EDIP ,
Directors’ Remuneration Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
20
Mr. Singer continued to be entitled to
call for the underlying shares following
termination of employment. 
The Company also operates SAYE Share
Option Schemes for eligible employees
under which options are granted with an
exercise price up to 20% below the
prevailing share price. Senior
management are eligible to participate. 
No significant amendments are proposed
to be made to the terms and conditions
of any entitlement of a director to share
options. 
Pension arrangements
Market competitive retirement benefits
are provided to act as a retention
mechanism and to recognise long service.
Mr Harding is a member of the
“Retirement Plan” section of the William
Hill Pension Scheme and Mr Singer was a
member up until his leaving employment
with the Group. This provides defined
benefits based on final pensionable pay
and length of service. Benefits accrue at a
rate of 1/30th of pensionable salary, up to
the Earnings Cap, for each year of
pensionable service. Their dependants are
eligible for dependants’ pensions and the
payment of a lump sum, equivalent to
four times salary, in the event of death in
service. Pensionable pay is basic salary less
the Lower Earnings Limit and no other
payments are pensionable. 
From April 2006 a scheme specific
earnings limit was introduced, equivalent
to the Earnings Cap, and members’
benefits were restricted accordingly. The
loss of benefit as a result of this earnings
limit, and the Earnings Cap before it, is
compensated for by a salary supplement
of 10% of total salary. Messrs. Harding and
Singer received 10% of salary for this loss
of benefit in the period, in Mr Singer’s
case up to the date of leaving. As referred
to above, the Company exercised its right
to make a payment in lieu of notice to Mr
Singer on termination of his employment
and details of the payment made are set
out on page 22. In accordance with Mr
Singer’s service contract, this payment
included an element, which represented
the pensions benefit he would have
received during his notice period.
The current final salary scheme is closed
to new entrants and has been replaced by
a money purchase scheme, the Pensions
Savings Plan 2001, in respect of new
joiners, including any future appointments
of executive directors. The employer
contributions under the money purchase
scheme are 20% of pensionable salary for
executive directors subject to the same
earnings limit as in the “Retirement Plan” .
Mr Lane is a member of the Pensions
Savings Plan. The salary supplement
referred to above is not paid to members
of this plan.
The normal retirement age is 63 (final
salary) and 65 (money purchase).
However, in view of the Age
Discrimination legislation introduced in
October 2006, individuals can opt to
continue working until 65, the Group’s
recognised normal retirement age.
Policy regarding minimum
shareholding
It is the Board’s policy to require executive
directors and certain members of senior
management to hold a minimum
shareholding in the Company equal to
one year’s basic salary. Whilst not
contractually enforceable the Committee
expects to exercise its discretion so as not
to extend participation in various bonus
schemes and long term incentive
arrangements to individuals who fail to
meet the minimum shareholding
requirement. David Harding already meets
this requirement, as stipulated by the
Committee, and other members of senior
management are expected to do so by
the end of 2007 and for Simon Lane, the
end of 2009. These timeframes were set in
the expectation that all or part of the
options and shares awarded under the
various share schemes will vest by these
dates thereby providing the executive
with shares that can contribute towards
meeting the minimum shareholding
requirement. 
Performance graph
As required by the Regulations, the graph
below shows the Company’s performance,
measured by TSR, compared with that of
the performance of the FTSE 250
(excluding investment companies) Index.
The FTSE 250 (excluding investment
companies) Index has been selected for
this comparison because it is the index
used by the Company to determine
payments under most of its current long
term incentive arrangements. 
The graph consists of points representing
the change in the value of a nominal
investment of £100 made on 20 June
2002 in the Company and the FTSE 250
(excluding investment companies) Index,
respectively. The change in value of the
index holding reflects changes in the
value of the constituent companies over
the period. The closing values at 26
December 2006 represent the value of
each nominal holding at that date and
reflect the change in the share price and
the value of dividend income re-invested
over the period.
Executive directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive
directors should have contracts with an
indefinite term providing for a maximum
of one year’s notice. Consequently no
executive has a contractual notice period
in excess of 12 months. 
In the event of early termination the
policy on executive directors’ contracts
provides for compensation up to a
maximum of 12 months’ basic salary,
pension contributions, other benefits, and
pro-rated annual bonus. The Committee
will also consider mitigation to reduce
compensation to a departing director
where appropriate to do so. 
Mr Harding is employed under a service
contract with the Company dated 28 May
2002 and is entitled under the contract to
a basic annual salary, participation in the
Company’s bonus scheme, a company car
Directors’ Remuneration Report
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
£350
Jun-02 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
Historical TSR Performance 
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding since the date of listing in June 2002 versus FTSE 250 (excluding
investment companies) Index. Comparison based on the offer price and 30 trading day average values.
FTSE 250 (excluding investment
companies)
William Hill William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
21
(or cash allowance in lieu), permanent
health insurance and private medical
insurance cover. Mr Harding is also
entitled to membership of the Company’s
pension scheme (pensionable salary
limited to the Earnings Cap) and receives
an annual payment of 10% of basic salary
to reflect the restriction imposed by the
scheme specific earnings limit. Mr
Harding’s contract is for an indefinite term
ending automatically on his retirement
date (age 63), but may be terminated by
12 months’ notice given by either party.
The Company may at its discretion elect
to terminate the contract by making
within ten days of the termination of
employment a payment in lieu of notice
equal to:
• The salary Mr Harding would have
received during the notice period;
• A pro-rated amount in respect of
bonus in respect of the year in which
the employment terminates; and
• The annual cost to the Company of
providing pension and all other
benefits to which Mr Harding is
entitled under his contract.
If Mr Harding’s employment is terminated
following a change of control of the
Company and within 12 months of such
change of control Mr Harding is given
notice or if Mr Harding terminates his
employment for a good reason as defined
in the service contract, the Company is
obliged to pay within seven days of the
termination of the employment a lump
sum payment calculated in the same way
as the payment in lieu of notice described
above.
Mr Lane is employed under a service
contract with the Company dated 20
March 2006. The Remuneration
Committee took the opportunity to
review the service contract used for
existing directors in the light of
developments in best practice in this area
and with regard to institutional
shareholder guidance. Mr Lane’s contract
is in the same format as that which
applies to Mr Harding other than in
respect of pension (see comments on
page 20) and as set out below:
• Mr Lane’s contract is for an indefinite
term ending automatically on his
retirement date (age 65), but may be
terminated by 12 months’ notice given
by either party. The Company may at
its discretion elect to terminate the
contract by making a payment in lieu
of notice calculated along the lines
referred to above for Mr Harding.
However for Mr Lane, his payment
may be paid at the Company’s
discretion either as a lump sum or in
12 equal monthly instalments. If the
Company elects to pay in instalments
and Mr Lane commences alternative
employment or provides services
pursuant to a consultancy
arrangement while the monthly
payments are being made then they
shall be reduced by 80% of 1/12th of
the basic annual salary or fee. There is
a contractual obligation to secure
alternative employment as soon as
reasonably practicable.
• The provisions contained in
Mr Harding’s contract relating to
termination following a change of
control are not replicated in Mr Lane’s
contract.
Mr Singer’s service contract was
terminated on 6 November 2006 and its
terms and conditions were the same as
those referred to above for Mr Harding.
The Company chose to exercise its right
to terminate the contract by making a
payment in lieu of notice on the basis
outlined above. The Company also agreed
to continue to provide medical cover
under the Company’s scheme until March
2007. Details of any continued
entitlements under the Company’s various
share schemes are referred to earlier in
this report and in the table of this report
on page 23. He also received a payment
of £26,400 in respect of statutory
employment rights pursuant to a
compromise agreement together with a
contribution of £4,000 towards his legal
fees.
Non executive directors’ letter of
appointment
All non executive directors have specific
letters of engagement and their
remuneration is determined by the Board
within the limits set by the Articles of
Association and based on independent
surveys of fees paid to non executive
directors of similar companies.
Remuneration is set taking account of the
commitment and responsibilities of the
relevant role. The non executive directors
do not have service contracts. 
Mr Scott was appointed a non executive
director on 15 April 2002 and Non
Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004
under an appointment letter dated 28
October 2003 and his initial term of office
expired on 31 December 2006. Following
a review by the Nomination Committee,
chaired by the Senior Independent Non
Executive Director, and agreement by the
Board his term of office was extended by
a letter dated 5 December 2006 for a
further three-year term ending on 31
December 2009. With effect from 1 March
2006, Mr Scott has been paid a basic
annual fee of £250,000 in respect of all
services rendered to the Company,
including chairing the Nomination
Committee. With effect from 1 March
2007, Mr Scott’s basic annual fee was
increased by 5% to £262,500. 
In March 2006, the basic annual fee paid
to non executive directors was increased
to £40,000 with the additional fee for
chairing a Board committee remaining at
£7,500. As all independent non executive
directors chaired Board committees, they
all receive an annual fee of £47,500. With
effect from 1 March 2007, the basic
annual fee was increased by 6.3% to
£42,500 and the additional fee increased
by 33.3% to £10,000. Also, with effect
from 1 March 2007, the Senior Non
Exeutive Director will be paid an
additional fee of £2,000. 
Non executive directors are appointed for
an initial term of three years and in
normal circumstances, and subject to
satisfactory performance and re-election
at AGMs, they would be expected to serve
for an additional three-year term. Non
executive directors may be requested to
serve for a further three-year term subject
to rigorous review at the relevant time
and agreement with the relevant director.
Messrs. Allvey’s and Gibson’s appointment
letters were dated 17 and 22 May 2002,
respectively and their terms of office were
extended by letters dated 12 April 2005
for a further three-year term to expire on
17 May 2008 and 22 May 2008,
respectively. Mr Edmonds was appointed
as an independent non executive director
in January 2005 and his appointment
letter dated 22 December 2004 provides
for his initial term of office to expire on
1 January 2008. Upon termination or
resignation non executive directors are
not entitled to compensation and no fee
is payable in respect of the unexpired
portion of the term of appointment. Non
executive directors cannot participate in
any of the Company’s incentive schemes
and are not eligible to join the Group’s
pension scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
22
Audited information
Aggregate directors’ remuneration:
2006 2005
total total
££
Emoluments 2,806,719 1,219,507
Gains on exercise of share options 4,476,081 20,897
7,282,800 1,240,404
Directors’ emoluments:
Compensation
Fees/ Benefits Annual In lieu of for loss of 2006 2005
basic salary
1
in kind bonuses
2
dividends
3
office
4
total total
Name of Director £££££££
Executive directors
David Harding 539,000 25,156 280,000 159,852 – 1,004,008 504,067
Simon Lane (appointed
20 March 2006) 209,582 17,958 115,500 – – 343,040 –
Tom Singer (resigned
6 November 2006) 292,850 19,505 – 133,504 624,980 1,070,839 349,606
Non executive directors
Charles Scott 248,333–––– 248,333 237,500
David Allvey 46,833–––– 46,833 42,917
David Edmonds 46,833–––– 46,833 42,500
Barry Gibson 46,833–––– 46,833 42,917
Aggregate emoluments 1,430,264 62,619 395,500 293,356 624,980 2,806,719 1,219,507
1
Included in fees/basic salary for Messrs. Harding and Singer was £49,000 and £28,500 respectively, paid as a salary supplement
in lieu of pension benefit lost due to the Earnings Cap. 
2
One third of the charge included above for Messer Harding and Lane’s annual bonuses is payable in shares held on a deferred
basis until March 2010.
3
In lieu of dividend payments represent amounts payable under the rules of the EDIP scheme, whereby on exercise of these
options, the holder is entitled to an amount equivalent to the dividends payable on the relevant shares between the date of
vesting and the date of exercise.
4
Mr Singer’s service contract was terminated on 6 November 2006 and the Company chose to exercise its right to terminate the
contract by making contractually agreed payments as follows: one year’s salary in lieu of notice (£345,000), an amount
estimated as the Company’s annual contribution to Mr Singer’s pension entitlement (£67,080), a pro-rated 2006 profit bonus
(£152,000), and a benefits in kind compensation payment (£34,500). He also received a payment of £26,400 in respect of
statutory employment rights pursuant to a compromise agreement. In addition to these amounts shown above, the Company
also agreed to continue to provide medical cover under the Company’s scheme until March 2007 and to make a contribution of
£4,000 towards his legal fees. Details of his entitlements under the Company’s share schemes are referred to on page 23.
The executive directors are the highest paid employees within the Group.
There were no payments made to executive directors by the Company during the financial year for compensation for loss of office or
payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services except as disclosed above for Mr Singer. The non-cash elements of
the executive directors’ remuneration packages consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private health cover, travel
card and permanent health insurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
3. DirRemun [c95709].qxd  23/3/07  17:58  Page 22 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
23
Directors’ share options and awards
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of share options to acquire, or awards over,
ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors. 
Details of the options exercised during the period are as follows:
Gains on Gains on
Market exercise exercise 
Number of Exercise value at 2006 2005
Name of director Scheme options price exercise date £ £
David Harding EDIP 455,556 Nil £6.26 2,851,781 –
Tom Singer (resigned 6 November 2006) EDIP
1
150,000 Nil £5.925 888,750 –
EDIP
1
117,500 Nil £6.26 735,550 –
SAYE 2002–––– 20,897
4,476,081 20,897
1
Mr Singer exercised his EDIP in three tranches, a tranche of 150,000 shares on 10 August 2006 and a second tranche of 117,500
on 6 September 2006 as shown above. The final tranche of 160,278 was exercised following his ceasing to be a director.
Details of options for directors who served during the period are as follows:
Number of Forfeited/ Number of
shares at Granted Exercised lapsed shares at Date
27 December during the during the during the 27 December Exercise from which Expiry
Name of director Scheme 2005 period period period 2006
1
price exercisable date
David Harding EDIP 855,556 – (455,556) – 400,000 Nil June 2005
2
June 2008
LTIP 2004 81,508––– 81,508 Nil March 2007 March 2014
PSP 2005 245,353 – – – 245,353 Nil June 2008 June  2015
PSP 2006 – 173,912 – – 173,912 Nil March 2009 March 2016
Simon Lane (appointed
20 March 2006) PSP 2006 – 86,956 – – 86,956 Nil March 2009 March 2016
Tom Singer (resigned
6 November 2006) EDIP 427,778 – (267,500) – 160,278 Nil June 2005
2
June 2008
LTIP 2004 48,090 – – (36,703) 11,387 Nil March 2007
2
March 2014
PSP 2005 184,015 – – (184,015) – Nil June 2008 June 2015
PSP 2006 – 120,000 – (120,000) – Nil March 2009 March 2016
SAYE 2005 2,073 – – (1,184) 889 457p November 2006
2
April 2007
Charles Scott N/A–––––– ––
David Allvey N/A–––––– ––
David Edmonds N/A–––––– –
Barry Gibson N/A–––––– ––
1
Or in the case of Mr Singer, at the date of termination of employment
2
Fully vested but not exercised
Mr Singer’s role became redundant and he left employment with the Group and ceased to be a director on 6 November 2006. His
entitlements under the share schemes following termination of employment are set out below:
• EDIP – the award had already vested at the date of termination and he was entitled to call for the underlying shares in accordance
with the EDIP rules;
• 2004 LTIP – the scheme rules provided that on redundancy awards were preserved and that they vest on a pro-rata basis, subject
to achieving relevant performance conditions as at the date employment terminated. The table above shows the pro-rated
amount of the award available following termination and after applying the performance conditions. The balance of the shares
under the award lapsed;
• 2005 and 2006 PSP – on termination of employment, the Remuneration Committee decided not to exercise its power to preserve
these awards in view of the relatively recent grant dates and the awards therefore lapsed on termination of employment; and
• SAYE – in accordance with the rules of the SAYE Scheme, the outstanding options were exercisable within 6 months of the
termination date.
Directors’ Remuneration Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
24
In addition, the following details the movements on deferred bonus shares for applicable directors who served during the period:
Number of Number of
shares at Granted Transferred shares at
27 December during the during the 27 December Maturity 
Name of director Scheme 2005 period period 2006
1
date
David Harding Operating bonus 10,037 – – 10,037 June 2008
Tom Singer Operating bonus 5,921 – – 5,921 June 2008
1
Or in the case of Mr Singer, at the date of termination of employment
The Remuneration Committee exercised its power to vest Mr Singer’s outstanding awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan following
the termination of his employment.
The Company’s ordinary shares were listed and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2002 at a price of
£2.25 at which time Messrs Harding and Singer became eligible to benefit under the EDIP arrangement. For the EDIP , the performance
criteria under which options have been granted are detailed on page 19. Options granted under the SAYE Share Option Schemes are
not subject to performance criteria. There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share
options during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 26 December 2006 was £6.34 and the range during the period from 27 December 2005 to
26 December 2006 was £5.35 to £6.63.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Messrs. Harding and Singer were the only directors who were members of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme during 2006.
Mr Singer left active service on 6 November 2006, whilst Mr Harding was a director for the duration of the year. 
In accordance with the Regulations, the following table shows the members’ contributions, the increase in accrued entitlement during
the period and the accrued entitlement at the end of the period:
Increase in Accrued
Accrued pension Real increase accrued pension
27 December in accrued period in the 26 December
2005 pension Inflation period 2006
1
Name of director £££££
David Harding 18,773 3,478 676 4,154 22,927
Tom Singer 17,307 2,708 518 3,226 20,533
1
Or in the case of Mr Singer, at the date of termination of employment
The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors’ accrued benefits under the same scheme calculated in a manner
consistent with “Retirement Benefit Schemes” – Transfer Values (GN 11)” published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of
Actuaries:
Value of real Increase
increase in in transfer
Transfer value accrued pension Other changes value in the Contributions Transfer value
27 December net of to transfer period net of made by the 26 December
2005 contributions value contributions director 2006
1
Name of director ££££££
David Harding 199,089 34,381 23,307 57,688 5,393 262,170
Tom Singer 132,569 18,238 17,027 35,265 4,488 172,322
1
Or in the case of Mr Singer, at the date of termination of employment
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director. Instead they represent a
potential liability of the pension scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
25
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting
benefits are included in the above tables.
Contributions of £18,050 were made to a defined contribution scheme on behalf of Mr Lane during the period.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Barry Gibson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
5 March 2007 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
26
The directors are committed to high
standards of corporate governance and
this statement sets out how the Board has
applied the principles set out in the July
2003 Financial Reporting Council
Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the Code) and identifies and
provides an explanation for any non-
compliance with the Code’s provisions
during the period.
Compliance with the Code’s
provisions
Throughout the period, the Company has
complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board has also reviewed the revised
Combined Code published in June 2006
and is compliant with the provisions
introduced by this revised document in so
far as they are consistent with the
provisions of the 2003 Code.
The Board
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior
Independent Non Executive Director
and other directors, including those
considered by the Board to be
independent, are listed on page 14.
Details of Board and committee
attendance are set out on page 27.
Mr Lane was appointed to the Board on
20 March 2006 and Mr Singer resigned on
6 November 2006. Appropriate insurance
cover is in place in respect of legal action
against directors.
Thomas Murphy was appointed Company
Secretary on 1 March 2006 following
Helen Grantham’s resignation to take up a
position elsewhere.
The Board operates within a formal
schedule of matters reserved to it. Other
powers are delegated to the various
Board Committees and senior
management. Details of the roles and
responsibilities of the Board Committees
are set out on page 28. Papers for board
and committee meetings are circulated in
advance of the relevant meeting and
where a director is unable to attend he
continues to be provided with a full copy
of the papers and has the opportunity to
comment on the matters to be discussed.
The Board considers that its primary role
is to provide leadership to the Group, to
set the Group’s long-term strategic
objectives and to develop robust
corporate governance and risk
management practices. The Schedule of
Matters Reserved to the Board and
delegated authorities are reviewed and
approved by the Board annually. Matters
reserved to the Board include, amongst
other matters:
• Setting the overall direction, long-term
objectives and strategy of the Group
and delegating day-to-day
management to the Chief Executive; 
• Reviewing Group performance;
• Reviewing the arrangements in place
relating to regulatory and industry
issues; 
• Approving the appointment and
removal of any board member and the
Company Secretary; 
• Reviewing and approving the terms of
reference of the various board
committees and receiving reports from
committee chairmen on a regular
basis; 
• Approving changes to the Group’s
capital structure; any significant
acquisitions and disposals; capital
investment projects and material
contracts;
• Approval of the Group’s annual plan,
Annual Report and Accounts and
Interim Statement, and setting the
Group’s dividend policy; 
• Approval of the Group’s charitable
donations and Group-wide corporate
social responsibility policies;
• Undertaking reviews of board,
committee and individual director
performance at least annually; and
• Succession planning for senior
management and the Board (on the
recommendation of the Nomination
Committee). 
The authority delegated to senior
management provides a practical
framework to executive management,
which seeks to achieve the dual objectives
of maintaining effective financial and
operational controls whilst providing
sufficient flexibility to manage the
business. Examples of areas of such
delegated authority include the release of
capital expenditure against approved
budgets; treasury activity within approved
limits; payroll processing; property
transactions; LBO development activities;
the setting of bet acceptance limits and
routine transaction processing.
The Board comprises individuals with
wide business experience gained in
various sectors of industry and in the
public sector. They have access to all
information relating to the Group, the
advice and services of the Company
Secretary (who is responsible for ensuring
that Board procedures are followed), and,
as required, external advice at the
expense of the Group.
During the period, the Chairman met with
the non executive directors without the
executive directors being present and as
part of the process to appraise the
Chairman’s performance the Senior
Independent Non Executive Director met
with Mr Allvey and Mr Edmonds, the
other independent non executive
directors. 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
There is a clear division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and Chief
Executive whereby the Chairman is
responsible for the running of the Board,
and the Chief Executive has executive
responsibility for the running of the
business. During 2004, the Nomination
Committee and the Board approved
revised role descriptions for these
individuals together with a written role
description for the Senior Independent
Non Executive Director. The Nomination
Committee and the Board reviewed these
documents during 2006 to confirm that
they remained appropriate. The Senior
Independent Non Executive Director’s
main role is to satisfy the function
outlined in the Code of being available to
shareholders if there are concerns which
normal contact has failed to resolve, to
lead the process for evaluating the
Chairman’s performance and to chair the
Nomination Committee when it is
considering succession to the role of
chairman. No one individual has
unfettered powers of decision-making.
Mr Scott satisfied the independence
criteria detailed in provision A.3.1 of the
Code on his appointment as Chairman
and details of his other significant
commitments are set out on page 14.
He stepped down as a director of Massive
Limited on 23 February 2006 and was
appointed to the board of Flybe Group
Limited on 1 April 2006.
Board balance, independence
and appointments
During the year, the Nomination
Committee and the Board reviewed the
Statement on Corporate Governance
Statement on Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
27
structure, size and composition of the
Board (together with an evaluation of the
Board’s balance of skills, knowledge and
experience); the membership of the
various board committees and the
expected time commitment and policy for
multiple board appointments for
executive and non executive directors.
The directors’ aim is to ensure that the
balance of the Board reflects the changing
needs of the Group’s business. In 2005,
the Board identified the need for the
appointment of a Chief Operating Officer
to lead the programme for integration of
the Stanley retail business and to take
over day-to-day responsibility for the
Group’s operations. Following the
successful conclusion of this project and a
review of the Chief Executive’s
responsibilities and ongoing workload,
the role of Chief Operating Officer
became redundant and Mr Singer
resigned from the Board in November
2006. With effect from this date, the Chief
Executive assimilated Mr Singer’s duties
within his own role. Mr Lane was
appointed as Group Finance Director in
March 2006.
The Nomination Committee and the
Board will continue to monitor the Board
balance and skills at least annually. 
During the period, the Board included
three independent non executive
directors. The number of directors during
the period comprised six directors for part
of the period and seven directors for the
remainder. The Company satisfied the
Code requirements that at least half the
Board, excluding the Chairman, should
comprise non executive directors
determined by the Board to be
independent.
Appointments to the Board are the
responsibility of the full Board, on the
recommendation of the Nomination
Committee. On joining the Board, non
executive directors receive a formal
appointment letter, which identifies the
time commitment expected of them.
A potential director candidate is required
to disclose all significant outside
commitments prior to appointment and
the Board has approved a policy requiring
disclosure and approval by the Board of
all additional appointments for executive
or non executive directors. The terms and
conditions of appointment of non
executive and service contracts of
executive directors are available to
shareholders for inspection at the Group’s
registered office during normal business
hours and at the Annual General Meeting
(for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and
during the meeting).
Information and professional
development
The Board receives detailed reports from
executive management on the
performance of the Group at monthly
board meetings and other information as
necessary and senior management
regularly make presentations to the Board
on their areas of responsibility. Regular
updates are provided on relevant legal,
corporate governance and financial
reporting developments and directors are
encouraged to attend external seminars
on areas of relevance to their role. The
Board has approved an information and
professional development policy for
directors.
A formal induction programme has been
developed by the Company Secretary and
approved by the Chairman. This was
implemented for Mr Lane during the
period following his appointment and
tailored as appropriate. A range of both
general and company-specific information
was provided in hard copy and this was
supplemented by a series of meetings
with external advisers and employees.
Induction programmes are in place for
appointment to the Board, the Audit and
Risk Management Committee, the
Remuneration Committee and the
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
All directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary. The
removal and appointment of the
Company Secretary is a matter reserved
for Board approval. The Board also obtains
advice from professional advisers as and
when required. 
Performance evaluation
A process of performance evaluation of
the Board, its committees and directors is
undertaken on an annual basis and the
process undertaken for 2006 involved the
following:
• The four Board committees
conducting a review of their terms of
reference and considering a detailed
questionnaire to assess committee
performance;
• One-to-one meetings between an
external adviser, Egon Zehnder, and
each director (including the Chairman
Statement on Corporate Governance
2006 Board and committee meetings
Board Audit and Risk Corporate
Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration
Scheduled
1
Ad hoc
2
Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held 1236446
Meetings attended
Charles Scott 12 2 N/A 4 4 N/A
David Allvey 12 2 6 N/A 4 5
David Edmonds 12064 N/A 6
Barry Gibson 12 2 6 N/A 4 6
David Harding 12 3 N/A 4 N/A N/A
Simon Lane (appointed on 20 March 2006) 10 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Tom Singer (resigned on 6 November 2006) 9 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Notes:
1
The Board held 12 scheduled meetings (including an off-site Strategy Day, with senior managers) during the period and 3 ad hoc meetings held to consider
specific issues 
2
All directors, other than Mr Singer, attended all scheduled board meetings. Non-attendance relates to ad hoc meetings called on short notice where directors were
unable to attend due to conflicting commitments. The figures shown in the table include both attendance in person and by telephone. William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
28
and Senior Independent Non
Executive Director) and the Company
Secretary to discuss Board and
committee practices and to assess
individual director performance; 
• Following these initial meetings a
further discussion between Egon
Zehnder and each director to provide
feedback from the earlier meetings;
and
• The performance evaluation process
concluded with a presentation by
Egon Zehnder to the Board,
summarising the main points arising
from their review and the approval of
action to address issues raised. 
The Senior Independent Non Executive
Director led the process for the evaluation
of the Chairman’s performance, with the
assistance of Egon Zehnder as outlined
above, and concluding with a meeting
with the other independent non
executive directors and feedback to the
Chairman. 
Re-election
All directors are subject to election at the
first annual general meeting following
their appointment by the Board. The
Company’s Articles of Association state
that each year one third of directors
should retire by rotation but that if a
director has at the start of the Annual
General Meeting been a director for more
than three years since his last re-
appointment, he shall retire. In practice,
this means that every director stands for
re-election at least once every three years.
The Board explains the reasons why it
believes each director should be elected
or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting for
the next Annual General Meeting. As
referred to above, those directors who
held office during the period have been
subject to formal performance evaluation
and the Board believes that their
performance continues to be effective
and to demonstrate commitment to their
relevant role. Their re-election is also
consistent with the Board’s evaluation of
the size, structure and composition of the
Board.
Remuneration 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set
out on pages 17 to 25.
Relations with shareholders
The Board remains committed to
maintaining good relationships with both
institutional and private shareholders.
There continues to be a regular dialogue
with institutional shareholders, although
care is exercised to ensure that any price-
sensitive information is released at the
same time to all shareholders, in
accordance with the requirements of the
UK Listing Authority. Slide presentations
provided to institutional shareholders and
analysts following the publication of the
Group’s preliminary and interim results are
made available on the Group’s investor
relations website, www.williamhillplc.co.uk
and a recording of the results
presentations can be accessed via
telephone for a period following the
meeting.
The Chairman is available to discuss
strategy and governance issues with
shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the Senior
Independent Non Executive Director, is
available to shareholders if they have
concerns that have not, or cannot, be
addressed through the Chairman, Chief
Executive or Group Finance Director.
Meetings between the Chairman, Chief
Executive and/or the Company Secretary
and shareholders have been held on
request to discuss governance and
corporate responsibility issues generally. 
The Group obtains feedback from its
broker, Citigroup, on the views of
institutional investors on a non-attributed
basis and the Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director communicate the issues
and concerns of major shareholders to the
Board. As a matter of routine, the Board
receives a monthly report from Citigroup
on issues relating to recent share price
performance, trading activity and
institutional investor sentiment. The Board
also receives copies of relevant analysts’
reports on an ad hoc basis.
The Board regards the Annual General
Meeting as an important opportunity to
communicate directly with all
shareholders. Board members, including
the chairmen of the Remuneration,
Nomination, Audit and Risk Management
and Corporate Responsibility Committees,
attended the 2006 meeting and intend to
attend the forthcoming meeting and will
be available to answer questions. In order
that shareholders are aware of the other
shareholders’ voting intentions, the details
of proxy votes for the meetings held in
2006 were announced at the relevant
general meeting and were made available
on the Group’s website following the
meeting. The website also contains copies
of the Notices of Meeting and explanatory
notes. A separate resolution was proposed
on each substantially separate issue. It is
intended to continue with these practices
for 2007 and future shareholder meetings.
It is planned to post the Notice of the
2007 Annual General Meeting to
shareholders with the Annual Report and
Accounts at least twenty working days
prior to the date of the meeting.
Board Committees
The Remuneration Committee, the
Nomination Committee, the Audit and
Risk Management Committee and the
Corporate Responsibility Committee, are
standing committees of the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committees,
including their objectives and the
authority delegated to them by the Board,
are available upon request or via the
Group’s investor relations website
(www.williamhillplc.co.uk) and are
reviewed at least annually by the relevant
committee and the Board. All committees
have access to independent expert advice.
Appointments to Board committees are
for three-year terms extendable by no
more than two additional three-year
terms.
Audit and Risk Management
Committee
The role and operation of the Audit and
Risk Management Committee is set out in
its report on pages 31 to 32.
Nomination Committee
The role and operation of the Nomination
Committee is set out in its report on
page 30.
Remuneration Committee
The role and operation of the
Remuneration Committee is set out in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages
17 to 25.
Corporate Responsibility
Committee
Details of the membership and areas of
key focus of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee are set out in the Corporate
Responsibility section on pages 33 to 40.
Statement on Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
29
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the
Group’s internal control systems and for
monitoring their effectiveness. Executive
directors and senior management are
responsible for the implementation and
maintenance of the internal control
systems, which are subject to periodic
review that is documented. The Internal
Audit department maintains a database
recording the system of internal controls
in every division and department
throughout the Group. 
The Board monitors the ongoing process
by which critical risks to the business are
identified, evaluated and managed. This
process is consistent with both the
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control,
and the revised guidance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in October
2005, and has been in place for the period
under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. 
Each year the Board assesses the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of
internal controls (including financial,
operational and compliance controls and
risk management systems) on the basis of:
• Established procedures, including
those already described, which are in
place to manage perceived risks;
• Regular reports by management to
the Audit and Risk Management
Committee on the adequacy and
effectiveness of internal control
systems and significant control issues; 
• The continuous Group-wide process
for formally identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks to the
achievement of the Group’s objectives;
and
• Reports to the Audit and Risk
Management Committee on the
results of internal audit reviews and
work undertaken by other
departments.
The Group’s internal control systems are
designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the
Group’s objectives, and can only provide
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. In
assessing what constitutes reasonable
assurance, the Board considers the
materiality of financial and non-financial
risks and the relationship between the
cost of, and benefit from, internal control
systems.
The Board regularly reviews the actual
and forecast performance of the business
compared with the annual plan, as well as
other key performance indicators.
Lines of responsibility and delegated
authorities are clearly defined. The Group’s
policies and procedures are regularly
updated and distributed throughout the
Group. The Audit and Risk Management
Committee receives reports on a regular
basis on compliance with the Group’s
policies and procedures.
No significant failings or weaknesses were
identified as a result of the review of the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of
internal control.
Assessment of risk
A corporate risk matrix has been
developed and has been updated
following detailed review by Internal
Audit and senior management during the
period. The matrix is approved annually
by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee and the Board. The matrix
records the key risks facing the business,
the assessment of the likelihood of the
risks crystallising and their potential
materiality, and the Group’s response to
each risk. Responsibility for management
of the risks is attributed typically to senior
management.
The Board uses the control and risk
management processes to identify and
manage any significant risks arising from
social, environmental and ethical issues.
Further details of the Group’s corporate
responsibility practices are described on
pages 33 to 40.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit department reviews
the extent to which systems of internal
control are effective; are adequate to
manage the Group’s significant risks;
safeguard the Group’s assets; and in
conjunction with the Company Secretary
and General Counsel, ensure compliance
with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides independent and objective
assurance on risks and controls to the
Board and senior management .
Internal Audit’s work is focused on areas
of greatest risk to the Group, as
determined by a structured risk
assessment process involving executive
directors and senior management. The
output from this process is summarised in
an annual audit plan, which is approved
by the Audit and Risk Management
Committee. The Head of Internal Audit
reports regularly to the Group Finance
Director and the Audit and Risk
Management Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit department
and the scope of its work continue to
evolve to take account of changes within
the business and emerging best practice.
Going concern
The directors have prepared the financial
statements on a going concern basis
consistent with their view, formed after
making appropriate enquiries, that the
Group is operationally and financially
robust.
Statement on Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
30
Report of the Nomination Committee
The Company Secretary, or one of the
committee members, acts as secretary to
the Committee. 
The Committee meets as necessary but at
least three times a year usually before or
after regular meetings of the Board and
met formally on four occasions during
2006.
Role of the Nomination
Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference for
the Committee can be obtained via the
website www.williamhillplc.co.uk or by
request to the Company Secretary and its
principal function is to carry out a formal
selection process for executive and non
executive directors and subsequently to
propose to the Board any new
appointments. 
The Nomination Committee oversees
succession planning for directors and
senior managers below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination
Committee reports to the Board on the
outcome of meetings.
Main activities during 2006
During the period, the Committee made
recommendations to the Board regarding
its size, structure and Board and
committee composition and, under the
chairmanship of the Senior Independent
Non Executive Director, led the process for
reviewing, and, following such review
extending the current Chairman’s term of
office for a further three years. 
During 2006, the Committee also:
• Reviewed its previous
recommendations regarding the
time commitment required of non
executive directors and the policy on
multiple board appointments for
executive and non executive
directors;
• Reviewed the role descriptions for
the Chairman, Chief Executive and
Senior Independent Non Executive
Director;
• Approved the directors who would
offer themselves for re-election at
the 2006 AGM in accordance with the
articles of association;
• Approved the Report of the
Nomination Committee contained in
the 2005 Annual Report and
Accounts;
• Approved the revised process for
board and individual director
performance evaluation and the use
of Egon Zehnder to assist with this
process; and
• Reviewed and approved the
restructuring of the Group’s senior
operating management leading to
the redundancy of Tom Singer as
Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee undertook a review of its
own performance and terms of reference
during the period and the Committee
Chairman reported to the Board on the
outcome of the review.
Report of the Nomination Committee
Membership and meetings
Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee together with
the year in which membership commenced. No changes have been made to committee
membership during the period under review. The majority of members of the
committee are independent non executive directors and the committee is chaired by
the Board Chairman.
Director Y ear of appointment
Charles Scott, Chairman 2002
David Allvey 2002
Barry Gibson 2002 The Company Secretary acts as secretary
to the Committee. Other individuals
attend at the request of the Committee
Chairman and during the period the
external auditors, Chief Executive, Group
Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit
and the Head of Financial Planning and
Control would usually attend meetings to
report to the Committee and provide
clarification and explanations where
appropriate. The Corporate Finance
Manager, Head of Compliance and Head
of Security have attended meetings as
requested. The Committee also meets
with the external auditors without
executive management present on a
regular basis. The Committee met on six
occasions during the period and details of
attendance at committee meetings is set
out on page 27.
Mr Allvey has recent and relevant financial
experience. He is a chartered accountant,
a former Group Finance Director of
Barclays PLC and BAT Industries PLC and a
former member of the UK Accounting
Standards Board. Mr Edmonds and Mr
Gibson are both financially literate and
have significant general business
experience of executive roles in both
private and public organisations and
details of each director’s significant
current and prior appointments are set
out on page 14.
Role of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference for
the Committee can be obtained via the
website www.williamhillplc.co.uk or by
request to the Company Secretary. The
Committee’s principal responsibilities
are to:
• Review and advise the Board on the
Group’s interim and annual financial
statements, its accounting policies
and to monitor the integrity of the
financial statements and
announcements relating to financial
performance;
• Review the major risks affecting the
Group and assist the Board with
reviewing the effectiveness of the
controls operating over the Group’s
financial and non-financial risks;
• Review the nature and scope of the
work to be performed by the
external and internal auditors, the
result of that work and
management’s response, and their
effectiveness;
• Oversee the relationship with the
external auditors including making
recommendations to the Board
regarding their appointment or
removal and developing a policy
regarding the provision of non-audit
services to the Group;
• Meet with the executive directors
and management, as well as
privately with both the external and
internal auditors; and
• Report to shareholders annually on
its role and responsibilities.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee reports to the
Board on the outcome of meetings.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy and
procedure for staff to raise issues
regarding possible improprieties in
matters of financial reporting or other
matters has been established and was
reviewed during the year. It is the
responsibility of the Committee to
monitor its effectiveness and any
notifications made.
The Committee has access to the services
of the Internal Audit and Company
Secretarial departments and is authorised
to obtain independent professional advice
if it considers it necessary.
Main activities during 2006
The Committee has discharged its
responsibilities during the period by
performing the following activities.
Financial statements
During the period, the Committee
reviewed and discussed the financial
disclosures made in the preliminary
results announcement, Annual Report and
Accounts, Interim Statement and the
other trading statements made by the
Group together with any related
management letters, letters of
representation and reports from the
external auditors. Significant financial
reporting issues and judgments were
considered together with any significant
accounting policies and changes
proposed to them. 
Internal control and risk management
The Committee has reviewed the Group’s
internal control and risk management
systems and has received reports from a
number of departments, and, where
appropriate, presentations from senior
management, on the major risks faced by
the Group and the procedures established
to identify, assess, manage, monitor and
report on these risks. The Committee has
reviewed and approved the statements
on internal controls on page 29.
External auditors 
The Committee has responsibility for
overseeing the relationship with the
external auditors and approves the
external auditors’ engagement letter, audit
fee and audit and client services plan
(including the planned levels of
materiality). The external auditors attend
each committee meeting and at least
annually meet with the Committee
without executive management. The
Chairman of the Committee also meets
privately with the external auditors.
Letters of representation are reviewed
prior to signature by executive
management.
During the period, the Committee
received regular reports from the external
auditors including a formal written report
dealing with the audit objectives; the
auditors’ qualifications, expertise and
resources; effectiveness of the audit
process; procedures and policies for
maintaining independence; and
compliance with the ethical standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The external auditors’ management letter
Report of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee
Membership and meetings
Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee together with the year in which membership commenced. During the
period, all the members of the Committee were independent non executive directors. 
Director Y ear of appointment
David Allvey, Chairman 2002
David Edmonds 2005
Barry Gibson 2002
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
31
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
32
is reviewed, as is management’s response
to issues raised. The Committee monitors
the ethical guidance regarding rotation of
audit partners and a change in audit
partner was made during 2004 when the
audit partner was rotated off the audit in
accordance with the latest guidance. The
new audit partner was appointed
following interviews with the Committee
Chairman and the Group Finance Director
and subsequent approval by the
Committee.
During the period, the Committee
reviewed the Group’s written policy
regarding the employment by the Group
of former employees of the external
auditors and the policy on non-audit
services provided by the external auditors.
The Committee approves any non-audit
work to be undertaken by the external
auditors involving fees in excess of
£25,000. Where no committee meeting is
scheduled within an appropriate time
frame, approval is sought from the
Committee Chairman and subsequently
ratified at the next meeting. All non-audit
services provided by the external auditors
are reported to the Committee at its next
scheduled meeting. The external auditors
are excluded from performing any day-to-
day accountancy work for the Group. The
policy also sets out the criteria to be
followed when considering whether
external auditors should be engaged to
undertake non-audit services with the aim
of safeguarding the external auditors’
objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied with the
performance of the external auditors
during the year, and the policies and
procedures in place to maintain their
objectivity and independence, and has
recommended that they be re-appointed
at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
Internal Audit 
The Committee approves the annual audit
plan and internal audit methodology for
the Internal Audit department and
monitors progress against the plan during
the period. Audit reports are circulated to
the Committee members after each audit
and the Committee monitors progress
against actions identified in these reports
and the external auditors’ management
letter.
The Internal Audit department acts under
agreed terms of reference and the
Committee has established a number of
procedures to monitor and review the
Internal Audit department’s effectiveness
using guidance from a self-assessment
questionnaire prepared by Internal Audit,
feedback from senior management and a
review of the Institute of Internal Auditors’
Standards for the Professional Practice of
Internal Auditing. The Committee also
assesses annually the resources the
department has to complete its remit.
During the period, the Committee
commissioned a report from Deloitte on
the Internal Audit Department in line with
the Institute of Internal Auditors
standards. The Committee reviews the
effectiveness of the Internal Audit
Department on an annual basis. The
Internal Audit department has
unrestricted access to all Group
documentation, premises, functions and
employees as required to enable it to
perform its functions. The appointment
and removal of the Head of Internal Audit
is the responsibility of the Committee. The
Head of Internal Audit has direct access to
the Board and Committee Chairmen and
is accountable to the Committee. The
Head of Internal Audit meets regularly
with the Committee Chairman without
executive management.
Other activities
During the period other significant
activities addressed by the Committee
were as follows:
• The introduction of International
Financial Reporting Standards; 
• A review of the Group’s business
continuity and disaster recovery
strategy and ongoing reports on
changes to the business continuity
plans and their testing;
• Receiving the annual report from the
Group’s Head of Security regarding
the activity of his department;
• A review of its own performance and
its remit.
Regular updates are provided to the
Committee on developments in financial
reporting and risk management and
related legal and corporate governance
matters.
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
33
Corporate Responsibility
The year saw William Hill further enhance its procedures on core issues, including
responsible gambling and staff training and development, whilst building on the corporate
responsibility foundations established over recent years in other areas. 2006 highlights
include:
• The findings of an independent report by Responsible Gambling Solutions that the
standard of socially responsible practice in the Group’s Remote business is very good;
• Continuing liaison with the Gambling Commission and DCMS to establish
proportionate regulation for the gambling industry in line with the three licensing
objectives under the Gambling Act;
• The review and enhancement of age verification procedures in the Interactive
business to prevent gambling by under 18s;
• The introduction of a ‘Competition Beating Service’ initiative throughout the retail
estate to provide customers with a consistently positive in-shop experience;
• The extension of the performance management scheme initially launched for senior
management to the next tier of management; and
• Enhanced communication with our employees including the implementation of a
revised staff council structure, the publishing of a new bi-monthly staff magazine and
the testing of a new forum for capturing staff ideas.
Corporate Responsibility highlights 2006
Corporate Responsibility
William Hill takes its responsibilities to its
stakeholders seriously and implements
policies and procedures that seek to
balance the legitimate expectations of
shareholders, staff and customers and the
wider community. 
Risk management
The Board uses the risk management
processes referred to on page 29 to
identify the risks arising from Corporate
Responsibility (CR) matters. Its focus is on
the following material issues:
• Compliance with future and existing
laws, regulations and codes of
conduct relating to responsible
gambling; underage gambling and
protection of the vulnerable;
prevention of crime and disorder
related to gambling; and product
integrity issues;
• The ongoing training, development
and motivation of employees to
retain the widest possible range of
talented staff;
• Provision of a safe and healthy
workplace in accordance with
relevant legislation;
• Providing appropriate levels of
customer service; and
• Protecting customer privacy and the
proper handing and use of data
within the Group.
Leadership and management
framework
A non executive director, David Edmonds,
chairs the CR Committee and its other
members are the Group Chairman and
the Group Chief Executive. This
Committee monitors a range of CR issues.
There are at least four meetings a year.
Each meeting considers a number of
standing items as follows:
• The Group’s CR performance by
monitoring a number of key
performance indicators (KPIs) in
various areas including responsible
gambling, customer service issues,
human resources data and charitable
giving;
• A review of external contact and
queries on CR issues; and
• CR Action Plans.
The Committee has also considered the
following matters during the period:
• The Group’s compliance with existing
industry codes of practice on
responsible gambling;
• The appropriateness of the Group’s
corporate policies and the adoption
of a Disability Policy; and
• The results of an independent audit
by Responsible Gambling Solutions
Limited on the Group’s social
responsibility procedures in the
Remote business (Interactive,
Telephone and WAP betting). William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
34
In addition there have been presentations
on:
• Responsible gambling and the
prevention of underage gambling;
• The Group’s approach to disabled
customers and staff and compliance
with the Disability Discrimination Act
including consideration of relevant
changes; and
• The operations of the Group’s
Customer Services function.
The Committee reports regularly to the
Board and all Board members ensured
that through a process of presentation
and discussion with staff that they have
been properly briefed and have gained an
appropriate understanding of the CR
issues affecting the Group.
David Harding, the Group’s Chief
Executive, is the executive director with
responsibility for overseeing William Hill’s
CR activities. The Chief Executive and
Board Committee are assisted by the CR
Working Group, which also met on four
occasions during 2006.
The CR Working Group comprises the
Chief Executive and Company Secretary
together with functional heads for
corporate strategy and development,
human resources, property, security and
customer service departments together
with representatives from the Retail and
Remote businesses. An action plan
detailing work carried out since 2004,
which has been revised and updated on
an ongoing basis since this time has been
considered by each of the meetings in
2006, together with progress on
outstanding actions. The Working Group
reviews papers prior to submission to the
CR Committee and acts as a forum for
operational management to discuss CR
issues. Reports are provided by working
group members on CR activities in their
areas of responsibility. 
Communication
The Group has sought to increase
communication, both internally and
externally, on the Group’s activities in the
area of corporate responsibility. This has
been achieved over recent years by
increasing the level of disclosure via the
annual report and accounts and making
additional information available on the
Group’s website at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk regarding
activities in the CR area. The website
contains copies of the Group’s policies in
the CR area. The Group’s Code of Business
Conduct (available on the Group’s
website), covers the basic principles the
Board expects to be complied with across
the Group in a variety of areas, including
bribery, corruption and fraud.
The Group is delighted to be part of the
FTSE4 Good Index Series.
The Group has an active dialogue with
various stakeholder groups. During 2007
the Group will consider potential
opportunities for improved shareholder
dialogue and electronic communication
presented by the Companies Act 2006.
Codes of conduct
The Group supports the Gambling Act’s
licensing objectives and has worked with
relevant trade associations to adopt
appropriate codes of practice and to
exchange best practice in this area. Since
the Association of British Bookmakers’
(ABB) development of social responsibility
and good practice codes for LBOs and a
code of practice governing the supply
and use of fixed-odds betting terminals in
LBOs, the Group has had a rigorous
implementation and training programme
in place to facilitate compliance. The
Gambling Act
The Gambling Act, which is
expected to come into force on 
1 September 2007, has the
following licensing objectives:
• Preventing gambling from
being a source of crime or
disorder, being associated
with crime or disorder, or
being used to support crime; 
• Ensuring that gambling is
conducted in a fair and open
way; and 
• Protecting children and other
vulnerable persons from
being harmed or exploited by
gambling.
William Hill is committed to
providing practical assistance to
the Commission in its attempts to
put in place risk-based and
proportionate regulation in the
light of the licensing objectives.
Remote Gambling Association (RGA) has
also introduced a social responsibility
code, which the Group was actively
involved in developing. The social
responsibility codes deal with issues
relating to responsible and underage
gambling and cover such areas as
advertising and promotion, age
verification, staff training, customer
communication and support for social
impact initiatives. William Hill is a member
of the RGA’s social responsibility
committee.
In November 2006 the Group participated
in the RGA’s Responsible Gambling
Awareness Day, an initiative also
supported by problem gambling charities
GamCare and Gordon House Association
along with the Responsibility in Gambling
Trust. The purpose of the day was to
highlight the efforts made by responsible
gambling operators to provide their
customers with information and tools to
make informed choices and gamble
responsibly without harm to themselves
or to their families. There was widespread
broadcast coverage of the day and the
Group was encouraged by the informed
debate generated.
The Group operates voluntary self-
exclusion procedures for problem
gamblers in both in its Retail estate and
Remote channels. In addition existing age
verification procedures in the Group’s
online business were further enhanced
with the aim of preventing gambling by
under 18s. Customer service and call
centre staff receive appropriate training to
deal with customers who may wish to
self-exclude. GamCare have provided
assistance by reviewing the Group’s
internal training materials for both the
Retail and Interactive businesses.
Compliance reviews of Remote betting
self-exclusion procedures have taken
place during 2006. Refresher training for
some staff has also been carried out.
William Hill has worked with the RGA to
develop an appropriate code regarding
fairness testing of games, which use a
random number generator. The RGA
proposals have been submitted in
response to a Gambling Commission
consultation in this area and we await the
Commission’s proposals with interest. 
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
35
Gambling Commission
The Gambling Commission has been
established as the new central regulatory
body for gambling and the Group is
participating in liaison meetings with this
body both directly, via the ABB and RGA
and along with other members of the
industry. During 2006, both the
Commission and the DCMS published
numerous draft codes of practice, licence
conditions and standards relating to
gambling issues for consultation with
stakeholders and the Group was heavily
involved in the formulation of responses
to these consultations via the ABB and
RGA. The Group has established a
dedicated team and specific work streams
to deal with issues arising from the
implementation of the new regulations.
The Commission’s complete requirements
in respect of social responsibility are still
to be finalised. However, the Group
recognises that preparation for and
implementation of the Gambling Act is a
major project; detailed planning and
specific work-stream meetings
commenced during 2006.
Crime and disorder
The Group’s current operations are
licensed under relevant legislation and the
Group is committed to compliance with
regulation and to keeping gambling crime
free. The Group has a money laundering
reporting officer, the Group’s Head of
Security, who is responsible for ensuring
that the Group complies with relevant
legislation in the area of money
laundering and proceeds of crime, and
that appropriate training is provided to
employees.
An HM Treasury consultation on the
implementation of the Third Money
Laundering Directive closed during
October 2006 and the Group responded
via the RGA. The Directive will be
implemented by December 2007 and any
UK based internet or land-based casino
will be subject to its terms. A further
consultation is now underway on the
draft Money Laundering Regulations
2007. Comments will again be provided
via the RGA. The Gambling Commission
has also issued code provisions on money
laundering and proceeds of crime
reporting for casino and betting
operators. The codes closely reflect the
Group’s existing practices but further staff
training in this area will take place during
2007 as part of the Group’s overall
preparation for the implementation of the
Gambling Act.
The ABB, of which the Group is a member,
has a memorandum of understanding in
place with the Horseracing Regulatory
Authority relating to the sharing of
information when either criminal offences
or the integrity of racing is suspected. A
similar document is in place with the
Football Association and the Association
of Tennis Professionals. The ABB also has
arrangements agreed with greyhound
racing, snooker, cricket and rugby league
and its practice is to inform the relevant
governing body of the sport whenever
matters concerning integrity arise. 
The Group co-operates with the ABB on
integrity issues. The Security Department
maintains close relationships with relevant
law enforcement agencies and the
provision of information is strictly
controlled by the Head of Security to
ensure compliance with the Data
Protection Act.
The Group’s Security Department
undertakes an ongoing risk assessment
process for all LBOs, considering their
potential vulnerability to robberies and
violence in the workplace incidents.
Appropriate crime prevention measures
are introduced to meet the perceived risk.
Such measures include the fitting of
security screens in vulnerable shops,
installation of improved digital closed
circuit television (CCTV) systems and
fitting of electronic and magnetic door
locks to staff areas. In the event of an
incident occurring, affected shops are
reassessed by the Security Department
and steps taken to minimise further risk,
where appropriate. The Group has
established a close liaison with a number
of local authority environmental health
departments and crime prevention offices. 
Smoking
The Group is compliant with the smoking
bans in place in the Republic of Ireland
and introduced in Scotland in March 2006
and Jersey at the year-end. The Group
plans to draw on the experience of its
successful Scottish staff training exercise
and effective practical introduction of the
Scottish smoking ban, as it implements
the total bans on smoking in public places
coming into force in the rest of the UK
during 2007.
Currently, the Group has a formal Group-
wide smoking policy. A number of
measures are in place to reduce the effect
of smoking in the LBOs:
• There are currently air cleaners in
over 80% of the Group’s total estate;
• No smoking areas are provided in a
number of non-Scottish LBOs where
the layout allows; and
• Staff are not permitted to smoke
behind the counter and customers
are discouraged from smoking at the
counter by the display of ‘No
Smoking’ signs in this area.
In addition the Group’s administration
buildings nationwide operate a no
smoking policy.
A copy of the Group’s smoking policy is
available at www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
Customers and communities
Customer service
A commitment to high standards of
customer service and to the fair and open
conduct of its gambling operations is key
to William Hill. The Group’s continued
success depends on its customers.
Dedicated customer service departments
are in place for both the Retail and the
Remote channels and these handle
enquiries on a large range of issues.
During 2006 the customer service
functions for Telephone and Interactive
operations were integrated, giving
Remote channel customers one point of
contact for expert, consistent help and
advice on all queries.
Service complaints are considered
seriously and consistent, monitored
procedures are in place across the Group.
The Group undertakes regular customer
satisfaction surveys and during the period,
amongst customer opinions sought were
those on the design of the Group LBOs
and the usability and attractiveness of the
online websites. 2007 will see the results
of a late 2006 survey on customer
perceptions of the Retail business and a
new survey of telephone betting
customers.
During 2006 the Retail business
introduced its Competition Beating
Service (CBS) initiative, the aim of which is
to ensure a positive in-shop experience
for customers. CBS has quickly been
established as an essential element of the
retail business and the Group believes
that it will play a vital part in the business’
future success. District operations
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
36
managers review performance against
CBS standards on a monthly basis and
agree action plans to tackle any issues.
For an external viewpoint on the levels of
customer service experienced in LBOs,
the Group uses a mystery shopper
programme provided by Retail Eyes, an
international company specialising in
customer service.
Comprehensive betting rules, which detail
the terms and conditions under which all
transactions placed with William Hill are
accepted, are available to customers. The
Group endeavours to resolve all betting
disputes in a fair, consistent and equitable
manner. However, if these are unable to
be resolved to the customer’s satisfaction
the customer is entitled to refer the
matter to the Independent Betting
Arbitration Service (IBAS). William Hill has
agreed to abide by any ruling they make. 
From September 2007 gambling
transactions will be legally enforceable
contracts and subject to relevant
consumer contract legislation.
Additionally, the Group anticipate that
some customers may contact the
Gambling Commission in respect of
disputes. During 2007 a thorough review
of the Group’s terms and conditions will
take place. It is hoped that the majority of
disputes will continue to be adjudicated
on by IBAS, the acknowledged industry
expert.
Product integrity
William Hill has a number of products
where the outcome of an event is
determined by a random number
generator (RNG). RNGs are administered
either by external third parties or by the
Group itself. The Group has introduced
rigorous procedures to ensure that the
randomness of its own RNGs is certified,
game outcomes are fair and payouts
correct, games are free from defects and
function to specifications and that the
games are secure and do not compromise
either the player or William Hill. The Group
continues to work with suppliers with the
objective of ensuring they adopt the high
level of fairness testing conducted
Of 274 disputes referred to IBAS in
2006 (2005–178), IBAS found 2%
in favour of the customer (2005 –
4.5%) and the Group conceded
another 11% before IBAS ruled
(2005 – 4.5%).
internally. The Gambling Commission’s
consultation paper on Remote Technical
Standards – Fair and Open Play, has
recently been published and the Group
will be working with the RGA to develop a
full response to the consultation exercise. 
Privacy
The Group has systems in place to protect
the privacy of information provided by
customers. William Hill complies with the
Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data
Protection Principles set out in that Act in
the collection and processing of personal
information. Quarterly review meetings
are undertaken with relevant individuals
nominated by heads of department to
review practices in this area, during which
any issues are discussed and staff training
needs reviewed. A copy of the Group’s
privacy policy is available at
www.willhill.com
Responsible and underage gambling
William Hill encourages a socially
responsible attitude within the betting
and gaming industry and within its own
organisation and is committed to the
Government’s stated objective of
protecting children and the vulnerable
from being harmed or exploited by
gambling. The Group has been actively
involved through relevant trade
associations in developing industry-wide
codes in the area of social responsibility
and is committed to listening to the views
of relevant stakeholder groups. 
The Group has an ongoing dialogue with
GamCare, a charity involved in providing
information, advice and practical help
regarding the impact of gambling, and is
also a major contributor to the
Responsibility in Gambling Trust. The
Group is committed to implementing
appropriate procedures within the
organisation to deal with both responsible
and underage gambling.
The Group endeavours to provide
customers with the tools by which they
can chose to control their gambling
behaviour. Amongst such tools are:
• The ability to self-exclude from the
Group’s retail and remote services for
a minimum period of six months;
• A deposit limit by which Interactive
customers are able to limit the
amount of money they are able to
deposit into their account in any 24
hour period and where requests for a
deposit limit increase will only be
actioned after a minimum 24 hour
cooling off period; and
• The availability of gambling charity
literature from all shops with links to
gambling charities available from the
internet site.
In the Retail business, once a customer
has taken a decision to proceed with self-
exclusion, they sign a written agreement
which explains the effect of the self-
exclusion, namely that the customer will
be refused service in that LBO and at
other nominated William Hill premises in
the locality for a minimum period of six
months. In a retail environment, even if
the customer provides a photograph, it is
not possible for the Group to guarantee
that an individual will not be allowed to
place a bet in LBOs on a country-wide
basis.
Online, self-exclusion works by closing
existing accounts and preventing the
opening of new accounts using the same
e-mail address or payment details.
William Hill’s self-exclusion procedures
have gained GamCare certification and
standards are maintained via an ongoing
staff training programme and regular
management checks. An independent
assessment of self-exclusion and other
social responsibility procedures forms part
of the Retail Eyes mystery shopper
programme.
In July 2006 the Group commissioned a
report by Responsible Gambling Solutions
into the remote channel’s social
responsibility procedures. An extensive
cross-check was undertaken against the
RGA’s Social Responsibility and Age
Verification Codes of Practice, the
Gambling Commission’s Licence
Conditions and Codes of Practice
consultation document and the DCMS
‘Advertising by Remote Gambling
Operators’ paper. Overall, the Group’s
standard of socially responsible practice
was found to be very good.
Recommendations still outstanding will
be further considered in the light of the
During 2006 the following
number of customers chose to
self-exclude from the Group’s
services:
• Retail 401 (2005 – 285)
• Remote 1,010 (2005 – 693)
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
37
Gambling Commission’s final
requirements in respect of social
responsibility.
Signs prohibiting under 18s from entering
the Group’s retail premises or placing bets
are on clear display in all LBOs and the
procedures by which staff ask for proof of
age from individuals suspected to be
under 18 are clearly established, forming a
core part of existing training and
re-enforcement programmes.
The Group uses a best practice age
verification solution with its online
customers and seeks to age verify all
online customers who use debit cards,
which may be issued to those under 18.
Procedures in this area were further
enhanced during the year.
There has been dialogue with banks via
relevant trade associations to establish if
financial institutions can provide
additional information for age verification.
No progress has yet been made. William
Hill continues to monitor best practice as
it develops and to review its policies and
procedures on a regular basis. 
The Group awaits publication of the final
Gambling Commission social
responsibility codes and conditions.
Although the Licence Conditions and
Code of Practice document has been
published and includes particular
requirements on self-exclusion and age
verification, many details remain to be
completed and certain social
responsibility standards for the Remote
business will not be finalised until June
2007. 
The Group has wording on its customer
communications regarding responsible
gambling e.g. shop door poster,
promotional material, customer
statements and other correspondence
with customers.
A copy of the Group’s responsible
gambling policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
Access to services
Customers with disabilities have a right of
access to the Group’s services. Accessibility
issues are taken into account in
accordance with appropriate codes of
practice when opening and refitting the
Group’s LBOs, and a combination of
ramps, stair lifts, disabled toilets and
induction loops for the hard of hearing
are fitted, where appropriate. In addition,
services offered in the LBOs can be
accessed on the internet or via the
telephone. Details of all of these services
can be obtained from the William Hill
Customer Helpline.
The Group is currently developing a new
platform for its online services. Care is
being taken to ensure that the final
application reaches ‘single A’ compliance
status with the Disability Discrimination
Act as a minimum.
Employees
The Group’s success is dependent on its
employees and it is committed to high
standards of employment practice. The
Group rewards individuals fairly and is
committed to providing equality of
opportunity, training and development
and a safe workplace. 
Policies
A comprehensive set of human resources
policies are in place including documents
covering health and safety (including
specific policies on stress management
and smoking), equal opportunities and
harassment, disability, flexible working,
training and development, the acceptance
of gifts and hospitality, and whistle
blowing. These are communicated to
employees as appropriate. The Group has
an approved Code of Business Conduct
and during 2006 approved a Violence in
the Workplace Policy. Copies of the
Group’s policies and procedures in the
above areas are available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
William Hill is committed to undertaking
its operations in a way, which respects
individuals’ human rights and treats
individuals with dignity and respect.
Health and safety
A copy of the Group’s health and safety
policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. A Health and
Safety Committee meets regularly to
review compliance with applicable health
and safety legislation and regulation, to
keep up to date with best practice and to
review and maintain compliance with
health and safety procedures. The
Committee includes senior managers
from the Group’s human resources,
security, property and Company
secretarial departments, together with
representatives of operational
management. An external health and
safety consultant advises the Committee. 
Staff are provided with information and
training on health and safety issues as
part of their induction and on an ongoing
basis. Risk assessments are undertaken
and the Group monitors the application
and understanding of safety instructions
through a system of safety audits, Health
and Safety Co-ordinators and the Health
and Safety Committee. During 2006
revised versions of the Group’s Health and
Safety manuals were prepared for the
LBOs, the administration offices and the
greyhound stadia. There was particular
emphasis on the procedures to be taken
for lone working outside standard hours
by technical staff and fire risk assessments
were reviewed in the light of new fire
regulations.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to equal
opportunities in the workplace in terms of
selection, promotion, training and
development. Relevant policies are
communicated to Group employees and
there are clear lines of responsibility
regarding monitoring their effectiveness,
implementation and communication to
staff. 
Training and development
William Hill is committed to investing in
the training and development of all its
employees. The Group provides initial
induction training at the commencement
of employment (including training on
responsible and underage gambling)
supported, where necessary, by specific
skills training relevant to their job. Further
training and development is provided to
individuals throughout their career to
enable employees to maintain and
improve standards of performance, deal
effectively with any changes to the work
environment and to develop their abilities
and realise their full potential.
Selection for further training and
development is based on individual
needs, ability and the needs of the
business. Training is provided either
internally or externally as appropriate and
the Group has a dedicated team of
employees providing training and
development within the Group and
facilitating training by District Training
Co-ordinators. During 2006 the Retail
The Group’s current workforce is
59% female (2005 – 58%) and
41% male (2005 – 42%).
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
38
business implemented its Competition
Beating Service initiative (see Customer
Service on page 35). Over a period of four
months a team of 16 trainers ran courses
for 8,000 betting shop staff around the
UK. Staff in each shop are now equipped
to self-check performance against the
three core CBS standards of ‘friendly
service, famous expertise and great in-
shop experience’ . As part of the Business
Continuity Planning testing programme,
the Group also continued with a series of
the business continuity workshops, which
involved staff dealing with, and reacting
to, a theoretical business crisis.
The Group also has in place a
Management Development Policy
focussed on identifying those individuals
within the organisation that demonstrate
both the ability to operate at a more
senior level and the personal drive and
enthusiasm to develop themselves.
Specific programmes are in place covering
development for supervisory/junior
management, middle management,
senior management and senior
executives. 
During 2006 the Group extended the staff
covered by its formal performance
management process and continued its
efforts to embed the process, running
further practical training workshops for
those involved and producing specifically
tailored booklets. A substantial training
investment to ensure consistency and
effectiveness will continue throughout
2007.
Internal communication
The Group places considerable value on
the involvement of its employees and is
committed to providing effective
communication on matters which may
affect staff, and more generally, on the
development and performance of the
Group. The recommendations of a 2005
review of internal communication
conducted by the senior management
development group were implemented
during 2006. The existing Group magazine
was replaced by a new style publication,
Will2Win, which has been circulated to all
employees on a bi-monthly basis
throughout the period. The new
The average length of service
across the Group is 6 years whilst
LBO managers ‘ average length of
service is 12 years and 9 months
magazine invites staff feedback and is
designed to appeal to a broad readership
base. A new staff council system was
introduced in the Retail business to give a
voice to all staff, the particular features are
as follows:
• New area staff councils, chaired by
the area operations manager, meet
six times per year and comprise one
cleaner or one customer service
assistant and one shop manager or
deputy manager per district;
• Regional staff councils, chaired by
the regional operations controller,
meet three times per year and
comprise one customer service
assistant or cleaner and one shop
manager or deputy manager per
area and in attendance the regional
HR manager, one area operations
manager and one district operations
manager; and
• A national staff council, chaired by
the Retail Operations Director, meets
three times per year and includes
one customer service assistant or
cleaner, one deputy manager and
one shop manager per region (12
representatives in total), the Group
HR director, the Head of Retail HR
along with an operations controller,
an area operations manager and a
district operations manager.
All staff council representatives receive
specialist training and are allowed six
‘consultation’ days a year to talk to the
people they represent and to prepare for
meetings. There is also a staff council in
place for the major administrative centre.
A proposal for a Group-wide ‘Ideas into
Action’ initiative is being tested in the
north region of the Retail estate. Ideas for
improving the business can be sent to a
central point by staff who can be assured
that their ideas will be considered by the
appropriate management, with awards
being given for the best ones.
Integration of the Stanley retail chain,
acquired by the Group in June 2005, into
the business was completed in April 2006.
A major integration project including
internal and external shop re-branding,
new staff uniforms, the introduction of the
full range of William Hill bets into the ex-
Stanley shops, the alignment of IT systems
and a move from weekly to monthly pay
for ex-Stanley staff was successfully
completed. Throughout the project, the
Group placed particular emphasis on
communicating openly and honestly with
staff about resulting organisational
changes, with regular updates and
personalised communication.
The final quarter of 2006 saw a relocation
of the Group’s Leeds-based administrative
offices to other premises in Leeds. The
phased moves involved almost 700 staff,
their equipment and infrastructure with
no detrimental effect on the business. In
view of the many changes ongoing in the
business, the Group has established a
Change Board, chaired by the Group HR
director and attended by senior
operational directors and managers. One
of the major tasks of the Change Board
will be to ensure that all staff
communication is appropriate with
employees receiving the information they
require in the right form at the right time.
Sharesave
On an annual basis since the Group’s
flotation in 2002, employees with
minimum service of one year have been
able to participate in the William Hill
Sharesave scheme. To date over 1,800
employees, nearly 20% of all eligible
employees, have joined the schemes for a
period of 3, 5 or 7 years.
The 2006 scheme attracted 1,600 staff
savers, many of whom were taking out a
second or third savings contract, and 35%
of whom were former Stanley employees.
Supporting sports-related
and other bodies
William Hill is committed to being a
responsible corporate citizen and
recognises its wider social responsibility
by seeking to support the communities in
which the Group operates through
charitable donations and other relevant
payments.
Levies
The Group supports horse racing via the
statutory levy and greyhound racing via
the voluntary donation to the British
Greyhound Racing Fund (BGRF). The sums
payable for 2006 were  £26.7m and £4.0m
respectively. These funds are used by the
respective bodies for a wide variety of
purposes including animal welfare issues.
A budget has been independently
established for the greyhound stadia to
be used to assist with greyhound welfare
issues. The Group funds an establishment
which will enable up to 25 dogs to be
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
39
housed for up to three months with the
intention of permanently re-homing
them. Since it’s opening at the end of
2005, 67 greyhounds have been
successfully re-homed by this facility and
the benefits of retired greyhounds as pets
are actively promoted at the stadia.
The Group recognised the depth of public
concern surrounding press coverage
regarding the fate of greyhounds no
longer required for racing. Every trainer
affiliated to a William Hill track is required
to complete a weekly return listing dogs
available for racing, injured dogs and
those dogs who have left the trainer’s
kennels. Trainers must provide full details
of any individual to whom care of a dog
has been passed. 
Charitable donations
The Group’s charitable donations are
mainly focussed on organisations involved
in areas of greatest relevance to the
business. The Board has adopted a
charitable donations policy stating that
the major focus of the Group’s efforts will
be in supporting bodies involved in:
• Promoting a responsible approach to
gambling; undertaking research into
problem gambling; and providing
information, advice and help to
those who are at risk or are
experiencing difficulties with their
gambling;
• Greyhound and racehorse welfare;
and
• Support to disadvantaged
individuals in horse and greyhound
racing.
The Group is also committed to providing
support, wherever possible, to its
employees through their own fundraising
efforts. The Group allocates a proportion
of its annual charitable donations budget
to match funds (up to a specified limit)
raised by employees on local charitable
projects. During 2006 the nominated
charities of 47 staff members benefited
from the matching scheme with staff
endeavours including marathon running
and parachute jumps. On occasion, the
Group also supports organisations with
whom it does business in their fundraising
efforts and in such cases donations may
not fall within the donations policy
referred to above.
During the period the Group made
charitable donations of £423,000 the
largest proportion of which £333,000
was paid to the Responsibility in
Gambling Trust.
The Group has established a Charitable
Donations Committee, which reviews, on
a quarterly basis, requests for charitable
donations against the Board’s agreed
policy.
William Hill does not make donations to
political parties.
Environment
A copy of the Group’s environmental
policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. It is recognised
that all business activities have a direct
and indirect impact on the environment
and William Hill strives to act in an
environmentally responsible manner.
Policy
As a retail and service organisation, the
Group’s main impact on the environment
is through the buildings William Hill
operates and the resources used by staff
in their day-to-day work. The Group’s
environmental practices reflect William
Hill’s business operations, and its main
risks and interactions with the
environment, and are largely focussed on:
• Compliance with environmental laws
and regulations;
• Minimising waste by the promotion
of recycling practices and re-use of
materials as opposed to disposal,
where this is practicable;
• Efficient use of energy and water and
investigating ways of reducing
consumption in this area; and
• Raising awareness of environmental
issues within the Group.
Action to date
The Group’s Property Department takes
primary responsibility for identifying
issues and opportunities within the
Group’s LBO estate and the following
action has been taken:
• High frequency light fittings are
specified in all new development and
refurbishment projects thereby
reducing the number of lamps
requiring disposal;
• The Group is fully compliant with all
current legislative guidelines
regarding the disposal of hazardous
waste and is preparing to comply
with the new Waste, Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
Directive which is being introduced
in 2007;
• Air-conditioning and fascia lighting
are controlled by time clocks to
ensure efficient use of energy;
• Electrostatic air cleaners are installed
in over 80% of the Group’s LBOs;
• New style fascias continue to be
rolled out as LBOs are upgraded
which will reduce electricity
consumption;
• More energy efficient (inverter) air
conditioning units are being installed
on new projects and when
replacements are required; and
• Water management systems for toilet
facilities continue to be rolled out to
reduce water consumption and an
increasing proportion of the LBO
estate is fitted with water meters.
Facilities for recycling paper and toner
cartridges are in place at the Group’s head
office and regional office buildings. The
Group has been unable to establish an
energy and cost efficient method of
recycling from its retail establishments.
Potential solutions will be considered
further during 2007 and the Group is keen
to be able to progress in this area.
During 2007 the Group will work with the
Carbon Trust on an environmental review
and looks forward to receiving any
recommendations made by the Trust.
Historically, the Group have found it
difficult to establish accurate utility
consumption data covering all of its 2,000
plus premises. A 2007 exercise, by which
quarterly meter readings will be taken at a
sample of representative Group premises
throughout the UK, is being established.
Such base-line data will inform future
policy. Additionally, the Group is seeking
to obtain and consider quotations for
green and reusable electricity during
2007.
Future action
The Board is committed to taking steps to
improve continuously its practices in the
CR area and to embedding CR issues into
its corporate governance and operating
framework. 
In 2007, the Group intends to continue to
progress those initiatives that are already
ongoing. For example, it will continue to
monitor relevant KPIs with a view to
establishing further targets once a trend
in data has been determined. Inevitably,
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
40
the Group will focus heavily on the
implementation of the Gambling
Commission’s social responsibility codes.
Until the Commission’s final requirements
are known, the full scope of the changes
to existing industry codes and subsequent
staff training requirements remain unclear.
In addition to Gambling Act
implementation and training
requirements the Group will focus on the
following areas during the year:
• The introduction of an employee
assistance programme offering staff
a 24 hour confidential telephone line
with help on personal, legal and
work related issues;
• The launch of a new, improved staff
lifestyle and benefits booklet;
• An employee engagement survey;
• Communicating the part the Group’s
staff can play in effective CR –
particularly in social responsibility
and recycling;
• Work with the Carbon Trust on
environmental practices;
• The establishment of reliable utility
consumption data;
• The introduction of long service
awards after 10, 20, and 25 years; and
• The establishment of procedures to
record days lost through incidents at
work.
Over time the Group plans to make
additional information available to
stakeholders via the Group’s website and
in future annual reports. The Group
welcomes feedback on it activities.
Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
41
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. The directors are required by the IAS
Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union. The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly, for each financial year, the Group’s
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial
statements’ . In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS. However,
directors are also required to:
• Properly select and apply accounting policies;
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and 
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance.
Company
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The parent company financial
statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
42
To the members of William Hill PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 which comprise
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of Group accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 37. These
Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended
26 December 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an Auditors’ Report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or
for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the Group financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific
information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the business review section of the
Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does
not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited Group financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Group Independent Auditors’ Report
Group Independent Auditors’ Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
43
Opinion
In our opinion:
• The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the
state of the Group’s affairs as at 26 December 2006 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; 
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• The information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
As explained in the statement of accounting policies, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Group’s affairs
as at 26 December 2006 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
United Kingdom
5 March 2007
Group Independent Auditors’ Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
44
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Amounts wagered 2 13,235.9 10,746.1
Revenue 1, 2 894.2 805.3
Cost of sales (160.3) (174.1)
Gross profit 2 733.9 631.2
Other operating income 6.3 5.9
Other operating expenses (451.6) (394.7)
Exceptional operating expenses 3 – (26.9)
Share of results of associate 4 3.6 2.6
Operating profit 5 292.2 218.1
Investment income 7 13.0 11.1
Finance costs 3, 8 (69.8) (54.6)
Profit before tax 2 235.4 174.6
Tax 3, 9 (68.6) (61.5)
Profit for the period 31 166.8 113.1
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 11 45.5 29.0
Diluted 11 44.9 28.6
Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges 30 14.3 (0.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension scheme 35 16.7 (1.6)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 24 (9.5) 0.2
Change in associate net assets due to share repurchase 15 (1.7) –
Net income recognised directly in equity 19.8 (1.9)
Transferred to income statement on cash flow hedges 30 0.7 1.4
Profit for the period 166.8 113.1
Total recognised income and expense for the period 187.3 112.6
Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Income Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
45
26 December 27 December 
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 1,342.7 1,332.7
Property, plant and equipment 13 207.0 174.5
Interest in associate 15 5.3 3.4
Deferred tax asset 24 8.5 17.5
1,563.5 1,528.1
Current assets
Inventories 16 0.5 0.4
Trade and other receivables 17 30.4 20.4
Cash and cash equivalents 98.7 76.6
Derivative financial instruments 22 14.4 –
144.0 97.4
Total assets 1,707.5 1,625.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (108.6) (79.5)
Current tax liabilities (66.3) (56.7)
Borrowings 19 (0.9) –
Derivative financial instruments 22 (5.6) (7.5)
(181.4) (143.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (1,141.2) (1,016.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 35 (25.1) (49.3)
Long term provisions 23 – (7.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (169.3) (160.3)
(1,335.6) (1,233.2)
Total liabilities (1,517.0) (1,376.9)
Net assets 190.5 248.6
Equity
Called up share capital 25 36.2 39.1
Share premium account 26 311.3 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 27 6.0 3.1
Merger reserve 28 (26.1) (26.1)
Own shares held 29 (46.9) (57.5)
Hedging reserve 30 9.4 (1.1)
Retained earnings 31 (99.4) (20.2)
Total equity 190.5 248.6
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 5 March 2007 and are signed on
its behalf by:
DCI Harding SP Lane
Director Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
46
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Net cash from operating activities 32 204.6 156.6
Investing activities
Dividend from associate – 2.1
Interest received 2.9 2.6
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.9 0.7
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (55.2) (52.0)
Purchases of betting licences (1.9) (1.9)
Expenditure on computer software (10.8) (2.5)
Acquisition of subsidiary – (498.6)
Disposal of LBOs net of costs – 34.4
Net cash used in investing activities (59.1) (515.2)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares (178.4) (76.8)
SAYE share option redemptions 1.0 2.7
Dividends paid 10 (70.9) (66.6)
Repayments of borrowings (125.0) (500.0)
New bank loans raised 250.0 1,020.0
New facility debt issue costs (2.2) (4.6)
New finance leases 2.1 –
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (123.4) 374.7
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period 22.1 16.1
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 76.6 60.5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 98.7 76.6
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
47
General information
William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered
office is Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP .
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment
in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Group has historically prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (UK
GAAP). A European Union (EU) Regulation issued in 2002 now requires the Group to report its results for the period ending
26 December 2006 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Commission. The date of adoption and transition for the Group was the 29 December 2004 being the start of the period of
comparative information. 
At the date of authorisation of these Group financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not
been applied in these Group financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures;
IFRS 8 Operating segments;
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29;
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2;
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives;
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment;
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: group and treasury share transactions; and
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact
on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant
standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Basis of accounting
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. The Group financial statements have also been
prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time. The disclosures required by IFRS 1
‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in
note 37.
IFRS 1 sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS for the first time as the basis for preparing its
Group financial statements. Under IFRS 1 the Group is required to establish its IFRS accounting policies as at 26 December 2006
and, in general, apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, 29 December
2004. 
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exceptions to this general principle. The most significant of these are set out below,
together with a description in each case of whether an exception has been adopted by the Group.
Business combinations 
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations that took place
before the 30 December 2003. As a result, in the opening balance sheet, goodwill arising from past business combinations
amounting to £733.3m remains as stated under UK GAAP at 30 December 2003.
Employee benefits 
The Group has recognised actuarial gains and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at 29 December 2004. The Group
has recognised actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ , issued on 16 December 2004.
Share-based payments 
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ to all relevant share-based payment transactions granted after
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. 
Financial instruments 
The Group has applied IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ for all periods presented and has therefore not taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 that would enable
the Group to only apply these standards from 28 December 2005. 
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
48
General 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its
subsidiaries) made up to 26 December 2006. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into
line with those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combination
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as
goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on
acquisition) is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
Investment in associate
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control,
through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Group financial statements using the equity method
of accounting. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the
Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of the
associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the
date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values
of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in profit and loss in
the period of acquisition. 
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case
appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
subject to being tested for impairment. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers and represents amounts
receivable for goods and services that the Group is in business to provide, as set out below.
In the case of the LBO, telephone, interactive sportsbook businesses and online casino operations (including games on the
online arcade and other numbers bets), revenue represents gains and losses from betting activity in the period. Open positions
are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and
losses realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income (‘rake’) earned from poker games completed by the period end.
Statement of Group Accounting Policies William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
49
Revenue recognition (continued)
Amounts wagered represents the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed in the period on
events for LBO, telephone and interactive sports businesses, net winnings on gaming activity completed by period end for AWP
and online casinos and net income earned from poker games completed by period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the
period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged
directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains
and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on
non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group makes every effort to match its foreign currency
assets and liabilities. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the
balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates
fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation
reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Finance costs
Finance costs of borrowings are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of those borrowings at a constant rate
on the carrying amount.
Government grants
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional items and after the share of results of associates but before investment
income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Statement of Group Accounting Policies William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
50
Retirement benefit costs (continued)
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit
Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full
in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised
income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a
straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. The interest cost and the expected return on assets
are included in finance costs and investment income as appropriate.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation
is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
T axation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates,
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings held for use in the supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet
at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. 
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost or
valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Long leasehold properties – 50 years
Short leasehold properties – over the unexpired period of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment and motor vehicles – at variable rates between 3 and 10 years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and
the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets.
Internally generated intangible assets – computer software and systems
Expenditure on initial investigation and design of computer software and systems is recognised as an expense in the period in
which it is incurred.
Statement of Group Accounting Policies William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
51
Internally generated intangible assets – computer software and systems (continued)
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development of computer systems is recognised only if all of
the following conditions are met:
• An asset is created that can be identified (such as software and new processes);
• It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally between three and
ten years. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an
expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Intangible assets – licences
Betting licences are recorded at cost or if arising in an acquisition at their fair value. They are judged to have an indefinite life and
are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews. The directors consider that the Group’s licences
have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well established market; the proven and
sustained demand for bookmaking services; the operation of current law that acts as a barrier to entry for new entrants; and the
Group’s track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, tangible and intangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually
and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows, which are based on the budgeted figures for the following year and subsequently an annual growth rate of 2.4%,
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense
immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories
Inventories represent stocks of consumables in stores and goods for resale within the greyhound stadia. They are stated at the
lower of cost and net realisable value.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ from 31 December 2003. In accordance with the
transition provisions included in IFRS 2, its provisions have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested
as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an Inland Revenue approved Save As
You Earn (SAYE) share option scheme open to all eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount. The cost
to the Group of share-based payment plans is measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula. The expected life used in the model has been
adjusted, based on management’s best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions
applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in note 34.
Statement of Group Accounting Policies William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
52
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits held by the Group with an original maturity of three
months or less.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. 
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges,
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the
profit and loss account using the effective interest method. Any accrued finance costs are included in accruals and deferred
income within trade and other payables.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their fair value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group uses interest rate swap and collar contracts to hedge its interest rate exposure and retains cash balances in foreign
currencies matched against its foreign currency liabilities (client deposit accounts) to hedge its exposure to foreign currency
exchange rates. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which provide written
principles on the use of financial derivatives. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow
hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the
asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are
included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a
liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects
net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the
income statement as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is
retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks
and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with
unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Bets are carried at fair market value as they meet the definition of a derivative. The resulting gains and losses from bets are
included in revenue. Assets or liabilities resulting from open positions are reported gross in financial assets and financial
liabilities under the term “Derivative financial instruments” . 
Provisions
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties.
Statement of Group Accounting Policies William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
53
1. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Rendering of services and revenue as disclosed in the consolidated 
income statement 894.2 805.3
Other operating income 6.3 5.9
Interest on bank deposits 2.9 2.5
Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 903.4 813.7
2. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three operating divisions – Retail, Telephone and Interactive. These
divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Business segment information for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006:
Retail T elephone Interactive Other Corporate Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts wagered 11,486.0 659.9 1,060.3 29.7 – 13,235.9
Payout (10,787.1) (602.4) (929.8) (22.4) – (12,341.7)
Revenue 698.9 57.5 130.5 7.3 – 894.2
GPT, duty, levies and other cost of sales (120.5) (12.9) (26.0) (0.9) – (160.3)
Gross profit 578.4 44.6 104.5 6.4 – 733.9
Depreciation (23.5) (0.7) (4.9) (0.2) (0.5) (29.8)
Other administrative expenses (329.0) (27.2) (38.1) (6.8) (14.4) (415.5)
Share of result of associate –––– 3.6 3.6
Operating profit/(loss) 225.9 16.7 61.5 (0.6) (11.3) 292.2
Investment income –––– 13.0 13.0
Finance costs –––– (69.8) (69.8)
Profit/(loss) before tax 225.9 16.7 61.5 (0.6) (68.1) 235.4
Balance sheet information
Total assets 1,360.9 95.8 127.1 18.9 104.8 1,707.5
Total liabilities (54.7) (4.4) (26.6) (0.5) (1,430.8) (1,517.0)
Investment in associate –––– 5.3 5.3
Capital additions 52.5 9.1 9.1 – 1.0 71.7
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
54
2. Segment information (continued)
Business segment information for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005:
Retail T elephone Interactive Other Corporate Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts wagered 9,285.5 605.8 826.0 28.8 – 10,746.1
Payout (8,664.5) (552.4) (702.7) (21.2) – (9,940.8)
Revenue 621.0 53.4 123.3 7.6 – 805.3
GPT, duty, levies and other cost of sales (136.3) (13.8) (23.0) (1.0) – (174.1)
Gross profit 484.7 39.6 100.3 6.6 – 631.2
Depreciation (17.4) (1.3) (1.8) (0.4) (0.7) (21.6)
Other administrative expenses (285.7) (25.3) (37.3) (6.3) (12.6) (367.2)
Share of result of associate –––– 2.6 2.6
Exceptional items (23.9) 
a
– – – (3.0) (26.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 157.7 13.0 61.2 (0.1) (13.7) 218.1
Investment income –––– 11.1 11.1
Finance costs –––– (54.6) (54.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 157.7 13.0 61.2 (0.1) (57.2) 174.6
Balance sheet information
Total assets 1,316.9 87.0 120.3 14.8 86.5 1,625.5
Total liabilities (208.5) (4.8) (20.4) (0.5) (1,142.7) (1,376.9)
Investment in associate –––– 3.4 3.4
Capital additions 46.6 2.1 3.6 – 1.0 53.3
a Included in £23.9m of exceptional items relating to the Retail channel are asset impairments of £5.4m in respect of technology and fascia assets
acquired as part of Stanley Retail but of limited subsequent value to the integrated Group.
The Retail distribution channel comprises all activity undertaken in LBOs including AWPs and FOBTs. Other activities include on-course
betting and greyhound stadia operations.
Net assets/(liabilities) have been allocated by segment where assets and liabilities can be identified with a particular channel.
Corporate net assets include corporation and deferred tax, net borrowings, pension liability and dividends payable as well as any
assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a particular channel other than on an arbitrary basis. Included within total assets by
segment are £681.0m, £80.4m, £97.2m and £7.1m (27 December 2005 – £681.0m, £80.4m, £97.2m and £7.1m), which relates to
goodwill allocated to the Retail, Telephone, Interactive and Stadia operations respectively.
There are no inter-segmental sales within the Group.
In accordance with IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ , segment information by geographical location is not presented as the Group’s revenue
and profits arise primarily from customers in the United Kingdom with significantly less than 10% (the minimum required by IAS 14 to
necessitate disclosure) of revenue and profits generated from customers outside of this jurisdiction. Similarly, only a small portion of
the Group’s net assets is located outside of the United Kingdom.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
55
3. Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be one-off or material in nature that should be brought to the readers’
attention.
Exceptional operating costs are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Costs of implementation of EPOS and text systems
1
– 7.4
Costs of integration of Stanley Retail acquisition
2
– 19.0
Costs of aborted return of capital scheme 
3
– 3.0
Profit on sale of LBOs disposed 
4
– (2.5)
– 26.9
1
Costs arose from the roll out of electronic point of sale and text systems across the LBO network and primarily encompass training and consultancy
costs. 
2
Costs arose from the due diligence on and the integration of Stanley Retail and comprise primarily external consultancy costs, redundancy and
related staff costs and asset impairments.
3
Costs represent professional fees incurred in respect of an aborted plan to return capital.
4
Gain made on the disposal of the 12 William Hill LBOs, as part of the sale of 76 LBOs undertaken after the Office of Fair Trading review of the
purchase of Stanley Retail.
Exceptional interest costs are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Write off of previously capitalised bank facility fee – 2.3
Breakage fee – 0.1
– 2.4
Following the negotiation of new banking arrangements and the consequent repayment of the old bank facility, the unamortised
costs of £2.3m associated with the old facility were written off in the period ended 27 December 2005.
Exceptional tax charges are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Capital gain on disposal of 76 LBOs
1
– 7.1
Tax relief expected in respect of exceptional operating and interest costs – (6.5)
– 0.6
1
Due to the accounting rules governing the subsequent disposal of acquired operations, the income statement bears the full tax charge relating to
the capital gain on the disposal of 76 LBOs, while the gain on disposal is only recognised in the income statement in respect of the sale of the 12
William Hill shops. The net proceeds of the remaining 64 Stanley Retail LBOs have been used to determine fair values and hence have been reflected
through adjusted intangibles recognised. 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
56
4. Share of results of associate
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Share of profit after taxation in associated undertaking 3.6 2.6
The above represents the Group’s share of the operating profit of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (note 15). 
5. Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (0.1) 0.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
1
27.1 24.3
Depreciation of software 2.7 2.7
Staff costs (note 6) 214.1 218.0
1
Included within the prior years charge for depreciation of property, plant and equipment of £24.3m is a £5.4m impairment in respect of technology
and fascia assets acquired as part of Stanley Retail but of limited subsequent value to the integrated Group. The impairment charge is incorporated
within the exceptional costs relating to the integration of Stanley Retail (note 3)
In accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.2417, fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates are shown below:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Category
1
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the 
audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its 
associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, 
pursuant to legislation 1 0.1 0.1
Other services pursuant to legislation 2 – 0.2
Tax services 3 0.4 0.2
Services related to corporate finance 
transactions entered into 9 – 0.3
All other services 10 – 0.6
Total fees payable to Deloitte & Touche 0.7 1.6
1
Fees are broken down by category in accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.2417 The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remunerations)
2005 Schedule 2 Regulation 4(3)Costs. 
Deloitte & Touche LLP does not provide services for the Group’s pension schemes.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP are reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure such fees are competitive.
The Committee sets the policy for awarding non-audit work to the auditors and reviews the nature and extent of such work and
related fees in order to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to
Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company and its subsidiaries. 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
57
6. Staff costs
The average monthly number of persons employed, including directors, during the period was 13,952 (52 weeks ended 27 December
2005 – 13,174) all of whom are engaged in the administration and provision of betting and gaming services and the operation of
stadia. Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 204.7 194.0
Social security costs 17.4 14.1
Other pension costs (note 35) (8.0) 9.9
214.1 218.0
Included in Other pension costs is £16.7m relating to actuarial gains (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £1.6m loss), which have
been credited to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. 
7. Investment income
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest on bank deposits 2.9 2.5
Expected return on pension scheme assets 10.1 8.6
13.0 11.1
8. Finance costs
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest payable and similar charges:
Bank loans and overdrafts 57.8 41.5
Amortisation of finance costs 1.3 1.0
59.1 42.5
Exceptional interest costs (note 3) – 2.4
Net interest payable 59.1 44.9
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 10.7 9.7
69.8 54.6
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
58
9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities
The tax charge comprises:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
UK corporation tax at 30% 66.5 51.4
UK corporation tax – prior periods (6.4) –
Overseas tax – 0.5
Total current tax charge 60.1 51.9
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences (note 24) 8.5 9.6
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 68.6 61.5
The effective tax rate in respect of ordinary activities before exceptional costs and excluding associate income is 29.6% (52 weeks
ended 27 December 2005 – 29.5%). There were no exceptional items in the period and therefore the effective tax rate in respect of
ordinary activities after exceptional items was 29.6% (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – 35.7%). The current period’s charge is
lower than the statutory rate of 30% due to adjustments in relation to prior periods. The prior period rate after exceptional items was
higher than the statutory rate of 30% due to:
• Chargeable gains arising on the sale of the Stanley Retail LBOs being treated as part of the tax charge whereas for accounting
purposes the gains are dealt with in arriving at goodwill; and
• The Group incurred a number of expenses on which it did not get tax relief. 
The differences between the total current tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK
corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 235.4 174.6
Less: share of associate income (3.6) (2.6)
231.8 100.0 172.0 100.0
Tax on Group profit at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 69.5 30.0 51.6 30.0
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (3.0) (1.3) ––
Permanent differences 2.1 0.9 3.5 2.0
Tax on profits credited against goodwill – – 6.4 3.7
Total tax charge 68.6 29.6 61.5 35.7
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard rate for
UK corporation tax, currently 30%.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
59
10. Dividends proposed and paid
26 December 27 December 26 December 27 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
Per share Per share £m £m
Equity shares:
– current year interim dividend paid 7.25p 6.1p 25.6 23.5
– prior year final dividend paid 12.2p 11.0p 45.3 43.1
19.45p 17.1p 70.9 66.6
Proposed dividend 14.5p 12.2p 51.2 46.1
The proposed final dividend of 14.5p will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 5 June 2007 to all shareholders on the register
on 27 April 2007. In line with the requirements of IAS 10 – ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’ , this dividend has not been recognised
within these results.
Under an agreement signed in November 2002, The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust agreed to waive all dividends.
As at 26 December 2006, the trust held 0.4m ordinary shares. In addition, the Company does not pay dividends on the 8.7m shares
held in treasury. The Company estimates that 352.5m shares will qualify for the final dividend.
11. Earnings per share
The earnings per share figures for the respective periods are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Pence Pence
Basic – adjusted 45.5 36.6
Basic 45.5 29.0
Diluted 44.9 28.6
An adjusted earnings per share, based on profit for the prior period before exceptional items, has been presented in order to highlight
the underlying performance of the Group.
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit after tax for the financial period 166.8 113.1
Exceptional items – operating expenses – 26.9
Exceptional items – interest – 2.4
Exceptional items – tax charge – 0.6
Profit after tax for the financial period before exceptional items 166.8 143.0
Number (m) Number (m)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of 
basic earnings per share 366.7 390.5
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Employee share awards and options 4.7 5.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted 
earnings per share 371.4 396.0
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
60
11. Earnings per share (continued)
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust and
those shares held in treasury as such shares do not qualify for dividends. The effect of this is to reduce the average number of shares
by 10.4m in the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – 12.7m).
12. Intangible assets
Licence Computer
Goodwill value software Total
£m £m £m £m 
Cost:
At 29 December 2004 733.3 3.9 16.4 753.6
Additions – 1.9 2.1 4.0
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 134.1 447.0 – 581.1
Disposal of 12 LBOs (1.7) – – (1.7)
At 28 December 2005 865.7 452.8 18.5 1,337.0
Additions – 1.9 10.8 12.7
At 26 December 2006 865.7 454.7 29.3 1,349.7
Accumulated amortisation:
At 29 December 2004 – – 1.6 1.6
Charge for the period – – 2.7 2.7
At 28 December 2005 – – 4.3 4.3
Charge for the period – – 2.7 2.7
At 26 December 2006 – – 7.0 7.0
Net book value:
At 26 December 2006 865.7 454.7 22.3 1,342.7
At 27 December 2005 865.7 452.8 14.2 1,332.7
The amortisation period for the Group’s computer software is between three and ten years. The use of a ten-year life in respect of
some of the software is supported by warranties written into the relevant software supply contract.
Licences are judged to have an indefinite life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews. The
directors consider that the Group’s licences have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well
established market; the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services; the operation of current law that acts as a barrier to
entry for new entrants; and the Group’s track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
5. Accounts_1a [c95709].qxd  23/3/07  12:14  Page 60 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
61
13. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, 
Land and fittings and Motor 
buildings equipment vehicles T otal
£m £m £m £m 
Cost:
At 29 December 2004 139.1 80.3 4.2 223.6
Additions 20.7 29.3 1.2 51.2
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 41.3 2.6 – 43.9
Disposals (0.7) (2.6) (1.0) (4.3)
At 28 December 2005 200.4 109.6 4.4 314.4
Additions 37.2 21.8 1.9 60.9
Disposals (5.1) (1.1) (1.1) (7.3)
At 26 December 2006 232.5 130.3 5.2 368.0
Accumulated depreciation:
At 29 December 2004 52.3 64.6 2.5 119.4
Charge for the period 11.1 12.3 0.9 24.3
Disposals (0.6) (2.3) (0.9) (3.8)
At 28 December 2005 62.8 74.6 2.5 139.9
Charge for the period 15.8 10.3 1.0 27.1
Disposals (4.4) (0.6) (1.0) (6.0)
At 26 December 2006 74.2 84.3 2.5 161.0
Net book value:
At 26 December 2006 158.3 46.0 2.7 207.0
At 27 December 2005 137.6 35.0 1.9 174.5
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Freehold 50.3 52.2
Long leasehold 8.0 8.6
Short leasehold 100.0 76.8
158.3 137.6
Out of the total net book value of land and buildings, £3.6m (27 December 2005 – £2.1m) relates to administration buildings and the
remainder represents licensed betting offices. The gross value of assets on which depreciation is not provided amounts to £7.8m
representing freehold land (27 December 2005 – £7.6m). 
The carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures, fittings and equipment includes an amount of £2.1m (27 December 2005 – £nil) in
respect of assets held under finance leases.
At 26 December 2006, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment
amounting to £13.3m (27 December 2005 – £21.5m).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
62
14. Subsidiaries
The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their share capital and the nature of their trade
are listed below:
Proportion of all 
classes of issued 
share capital 
Country of owned by the Nature of 
incorporation Company trade
Directly owned:
William Hill Holdings Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Held through intermediate companies:
William Hill Investments Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Will Hill Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Windsors (Sporting Investments) Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Camec Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill Organization Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services 
William Hill (Course) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill Credit Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (North Eastern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (North Western) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Southern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Football) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Strathclyde) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Caledonian) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Grampian) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (London) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Midlands) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Scotland) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Western) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Essex) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Provincial) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Scotland) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Southern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Laystall Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Brooke Bookmakers Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
James Lane Group Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Arena Racing Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Transdawn Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Willstan Racing Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Willstan Racing (Ireland) Limited Republic of Ireland 100% Betting services
Willstan Limited Northern Ireland 100% Betting services
BJ O’Connor Limited Jersey 100% Betting services
Willstan (IOM) Limited Isle Of Man 100% Betting services
The Regal Sunderland Stadium Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
Team Greyhounds (Brough Park) Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
William Hill Casino NV Netherland Antilles 100% On-line casino
William Hill Online NV Netherland Antilles 100% On-line casino
The proportion of voting rights held is the same as the proportion of shares held.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
63
15. Interests in associate
Provision for 
impairment of Share of
Goodwill goodwill net assets Total
£m £m £m £m 
At 29 December 2004 24.0 (24.0) 2.9 2.9
Share of profit before taxation – – 3.6 3.6
Share of interest – – 0.1 0.1
Share of taxation – – (1.1) (1.1)
Dividend received – – (2.1) (2.1)
At 28 December 2005 24.0 (24.0) 3.4 3.4
Share of profit before taxation – – 5.2 5.2
Share of interest – – 0.1 0.1
Share of taxation – – (1.7) (1.7)
Share buyback – – (1.7) (1.7)
At 26 December 2006 24.0 (24.0) 5.3 5.3
At 26 December 2006 William Hill Organization Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company, held an investment of 20.95%
(27 December 2005 – 19%) of the ordinary share capital of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (SIS), a company
incorporated in Great Britain. William Hill Organization Limited’s shareholding has increased in the period from 19% to 20.95% due
to SIS repurchasing and cancelling a portion of its ordinary share capital. The investment has been accounted for as an associated
undertaking using the equity method and the change in the Group’s share of its net assets is shown above.
The SIS group of companies provides real time pre-event information and results, as well as live coverage of horse racing, greyhound
racing and certain numbers draws, via satellite. The statutory financial statements of SIS are prepared to the year ending 31 March. The
consolidated figures above are based on management accounts for the calendar year 2006.
A provision was made in 1999 against goodwill relating to the acquisition of shares in SIS to recognise impairment in the carrying
value.
The following financial information relates to SIS:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Total assets 58.5 46.9
Total liabilities (32.8) (28.8)
Total revenue 144.9 126.9
Total profit after tax 16.3 13.2
William Hill Organization Limited also holds directly or indirectly 33% of the entire share capital of Lucky Choice Limited and of 49’s
Limited. These companies were formed for the purpose of promoting and publicising certain numbers betting formats. In the opinion
of the directors, the results of these companies are not material to the results of the Group. Consequently, the investments have been
stated at cost and have not been accounted for under the equity method, which would normally be appropriate for an associated
undertaking.
16. Inventories
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials, consumables and bar stocks 0.5 0.4
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
64
17. Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables comprise:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade debtors 3.5 2.7
Other debtors 0.5 2.2
Prepayments 26.4 15.5
30.4 20.4
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits held by the Group with an original maturity of three months
or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash and trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative
financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating
agencies. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and
customers.
18. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables comprise:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade creditors 37.4 29.1
Other creditors 4.9 5.6
Accruals and deferred income 66.3 44.8
108.6 79.5
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 19 days (27 December 2005 – 19 days).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Included in trade creditors is an amount of £18.7m (27 December 2005 – £16.0m) in respect of amounts due to clients, representing
deposits received and customer winnings. This is offset by an equivalent amount of client funds held, which is included in cash at
bank and in hand.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
65
19. Borrowings
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Due in less than one year:
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 0.9 –
Due in more than one year:
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 1.2 –
Bank loans (note 21) 1,140.0 1016.1
1,141.2 1,016.1
Total borrowings 1,142.1 1,016.1
20. Obligations under finance leases
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as
follows:
Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum 
lease payments
26 December 27 December 26 December 27 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 0.9 – 0.9 –
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.3 – 1.2 –
After five years ––––
2.2 – 2.1 –
Less: future finance charges (0.1) –––
Present value of lease obligations 2.1 – 2.1 –
Less: amounts due within one year (0.9) – (0.9) –
Amounts due after more than one year 1.2 – 1.2 –
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings. The interest rate inherent in the leases is fixed
at the contract date for all of the lease term. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for
contingent rental payments. The average effective interest rate contracted approximates 4.6% (2005 – nil) per annum.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
66
21. Bank overdrafts and loans
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans 1,145.0 1,020.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year – –
In the second year – –
In the third to fifth years inclusive 1,145.0 1,020.0
1,145.0 1,020.0
Less: expenses relating to loan (5.0) (3.9)
1,140.0 1,016.1
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months 
(shown under current liabilities) – –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,140.0 1,016.1
Bank loans
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December 
2006 2005
% %
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
Bank loans 5.4 5.5
At 26 December 2006, the Group had total bank facilities of £1,450m available to it under two facilities agreements. The first facility is
for a total commitment of £1,200m, and is split into two tranches:
• Tranche A comprising a term loan of £600m repayable on 1 March 2010; and
• Tranche B comprising a revolving facility of £600m available until 1 March 2010.
The second facility agreement is for a term loan of £250m, which is repayable on 30 July 2011.
Mandatory repayments are required to be made under the terms of both sets of loan documentation, including, but not limited to,
the net proceeds of certain asset sales. The maturity profile above is analysed on the basis of calendar years from the balance sheet
date. 
The borrowings drawn down under the £1,200m facility agreement bear interest at a variable margin of between 0.4% and 0.75%
above LIBOR, dependent on certain financial ratios. The applicable margin at 26 December 2006 was 0.525%. 
A commitment fee of 37.5% of the applicable margin is payable on the undrawn element of the revolving facility. The revolving facility
drawn down at 26 December 2006 was £295m (27 December 2005 – £420m).
The £250m borrowings under the second facility agreement bear interest at a fixed margin of 0.90% above LIBOR.
The facilities are secured by guarantees given by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Overdraft facility
At 26 December 2006, the Group had an overdraft facility with National Westminster Bank plc of £5.0m (27 December 2005 – £5.0m).
The balance of this facility at 26 December 2006 was £nil (27 December 2005 – £nil).
Fair value of loans and facilities
It is the directors’ opinion that due to the floating nature of the Group’s borrowings and the proven cash generation capability of the
Group, there is no significant difference between book and fair value of the Group’s bank facilities and other borrowings.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
67
22. Derivatives and other financial instruments
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Antepost bets (5.6) (5.9)
Amortised cost of swaps and collars 1.0 –
Unrealised value of swaps and collars 13.4 (1.6)
8.8 (7.5)
The above table, analysing the different types of derivative financial instruments, has offset the assets and liabilities. The following is
the analysis of the derivative financial instruments (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Derivative financial instruments – assets 14.4 –
Derivative financial instruments – liabilities (5.6) (7.5)
8.8 (7.5)
Antepost bets
Antepost bets are a liability arising from an open position at the balance sheet date in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy
for derivative financial instruments.  
Interest rate hedging arrangements
The Group uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings. 
The Group has entered into a number of interest rate swap arrangements as at 26 December 2006 under which the LIBOR element of
the interest payable is swapped for fixed rate payments. The notional principal hedged under these swaps varies between £455m and
£125m over the period to 31 December 2011. At 26 December 2006 the notional principal hedged under these arrangements was
£340m. The fixed interest rate under the swaps varies from 4.4% to 5.35%.
In addition the Group has also entered into interest rate collars arrangements expiring between 31 December 2009 and 31 December
2011 under which the floating LIBOR rate is capped at rates between 4.75% and 5.5% with floors of between 3.75% and 4.50%. The
notional principal amount hedged under these arrangements varies between £440m and £125m. At 26 December 2006 the notional
principal amount under the Group’s interest rate collars was £340m.
The fair value of swaps and collars entered into at 26 December 2006 is estimated as an asset of £14.4m (27 December 2005 liability –
£1.6m). Derivative pricing models have been used to calculate these fair values. All of these interest rate swaps are designated and
effective as cash flow hedges and the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. An amount of £0.7m (52 weeks ended 27
December 2005 – £1.4m) has been paid in respect of hedged interest payments made in the period.
Currency risk
The main functional currency of the Group is sterling. A number of transactions are conducted in other currencies which give rise to
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. None of these currency amounts are considered material enough to
disclose separately.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
68
22. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Net foreign currency monetary liabilities at 26 December 2006:
Net foreign currency liabilities
Other 
Sterling currencies T otal 
£m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling – (2.1) (2.1)
Other currencies (0.1) – (0.1)
(0.1) (2.1) (2.2)
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) at 27 December 2005: 
Net foreign currency assets/(liabilities)
Other 
Sterling currencies T otal
£m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling – (3.9) (3.9)
Other currencies 0.1 – 0.1
0.1 (3.9) (3.8)
23. Long term provisions
£m
At 29 December 2004 –
Provided in period 19.0
Acquisition 1.4
Utilised (12.9)
At 28 December 2005 7.5
Utilised (7.5)
At 26 December 2006 –
The provisions related to the costs of integrating the Stanley Retail acquisition.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
69
24. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities) and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current
and prior period:
Amount 
(charged) to
Amount statement of 
At 28 Acquired credited/ of recognised At 26 
December during (charged)income and December 
2005 period to income expenses 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (7.2) – (6.2) – (13.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 14.8 – (2.3) (5.0) 7.5
Licences (135.1) – – – (135.1)
Share remuneration 1.6 – (0.6) – 1.0
Derivatives 0.5 – – (4.5) (4.0)
Tax losses 0.6 – (0.6) – –
Properties acquired via business combinations (18.0) – 1.2 – (16.8)
(142.8) – (8.5) (9.5) (160.8)
Amount 
credited/
(charged) to
Amount statement of 
At 29 Acquired credited/ of recognised At 27 
December during (charged) income and December 
2004 period to income expenses 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (1.2) (2.0) (4.0) – (7.2)
Held over gains (0.1) – 0.1 – –
Retirement benefit obligations 16.6 – (2.3) 0.5 14.8
Licences (1.0) (134.1) – – (135.1)
Share remuneration 0.7 0.1 0.8 – 1.6
Derivatives 0.8 – – (0.3) 0.5
Tax losses 6.5 – (5.9) – 0.6
Properties acquired via business combinations (13.8) (5.9) 1.7 – (18.0)
8.5 (141.9) (9.6) 0.2 (142.8)
The current rate of UK corporation tax of 30% has been used to calculate the amount of deferred tax. 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in the above analysis. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax
balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities (169.3) (160.3)
Deferred tax assets 8.5 17.5
(160.8) (142.8)
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in the associate are insignificant.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
70
25. Called-up share capital
26 December 2006 27 December 2005
Number of Number of
shares £m shares £m
Authorised – ordinary shares of 10p each 800,000,000 80.0 800,000,000 80.0
Called-up, allotted and fully paid – ordinary shares of 10p each
At start of period 390,738,991 39.1 404,881,389 40.5
Shares cancelled (29,107,738) (2.9) (14,142,398) (1.4)
At end of period 361,631,253 36.2 390,738,991 39.1
The shares were cancelled during the period as part of the Company’s share buy back programme.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
26. Share premium
£m
At 29 December 2004, 28 December 2005 and 26 December 2006 311.3
The share premium reserve records the excess of the cash actually received on the issue of shares over the nominal amount of the
share capital issued.
27. Capital redemption reserve
£m
At 29 December 2004 1.7
Shares cancelled (note 25) 1.4
At 28 December 2005 3.1
Shares cancelled (note 25) 2.9
At 26 December 2006 6.0
The capital redemption reserve arose on the cancellation of previously issued shares and represents the nominal value of those shares
cancelled.
28. Merger reserve
£m
At 29 December 2004, 28 December 2005 and 26 December 2006 (26.1)
The merger reserve arose following a group reorganisation in 2002 in preparation for the flotation of the Company.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
71
29. Own shares
£m
At 29 December 2004 (59.3)
Transfer of own shares to recipients 1.8
At 28 December 2005 (57.5)
Transfer of own shares to recipients 10.6
At 26 December 2006 (46.9)
Own shares held at 26 December 2006 amounting to £46.9m comprise 8.7m shares (nominal value – £0.9m) held in treasury
purchased for £46.4m and 0.4m shares (nominal value – £0.04m) held in The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust
purchased for £0.5m. The shares held in treasury were purchased at a weighted average price of £5.32. At 26 December 2006 the total
market value of own shares held in treasury and in the Trust was £58.0m.
30. Hedging 
£m
At 29 December 2004 (1.7)
Change in fair value of hedging derivatives (0.5)
Transfer to income 1.4
Deferred tax arising (0.3)
At 28 December 2005 (1.1)
Change in fair value of hedging derivatives 14.3
Transfer to income 0.7
Deferred tax arising (4.5)
At 26 December 2006 9.4
The hedging reserve records the movements on derivative fair values, where movements on the fair value of those derivatives have
qualified to be deferred to equity.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
72
31. Retained earnings
£m
At 28 December 2004 9.9
Dividends paid (note 10) (66.6)
Net profit for the period 113.1
Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (1.6)
Deferred tax arising thereon 0.5
Shares purchased and cancelled (78.6)
Expense recognised in respect of share remuneration 2.2
Movements on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients 0.9
At 28 December 2005 (20.2)
Dividends paid (note 10) (70.9)
Net profit for the period 166.8
Actuarial gain recognised in the pension scheme 16.7
Deferred tax arising thereon (5.0)
Shares purchased and cancelled (178.4)
Expense recognised in respect of share remuneration 3.0
SIS share buyback (1.7)
Movements on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients (9.7)
At 26 December 2006 (99.4)
32. Notes to the cash flow statement
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Operating profit 292.2 218.1
Adjustments for:
Share of result of associate (3.6) (2.6)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 27.1 24.3
Depreciation of computer software 2.7 2.7
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.5) (0.2)
Gain on disposal of LBOs (4.0) (2.5)
Cost charged in respect of share remuneration 3.0 2.2
Defined benefit pension cost less cash contributions (8.1) (8.7)
Movement in provisions (7.5) 7.2
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 301.3 240.5
Increase in inventories (0.1) –
Increase in receivables (11.0) (1.6)
Increase in payables 23.7 3.1
Cash generated by operations 313.9 242.0
Income taxes paid (53.9) (49.4)
Interest paid (55.4) (36.0)
Net cash from operating activities 204.6 156.6
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and
other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
73
33. Operating lease arrangements
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as 
an expense in the year:
– plant & machinery (including AWPs and FOBTs) 3.6 5.4
– other (including land and buildings) 37.5 34.1
41.1 39.5
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Within one year 36.1 36.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive 123.2 121.7
After five years 175.3 179.0
334.6 336.9
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its LBO, office properties and amounts payable for the
use of certain office and computer equipment. 
34. Share-based payments
The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the period, all of which will be settled by equity:
(a) Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) encompassing awards made in the four years from 2003 to
2006;
(b) Save As You Earn share option scheme involving options granted after 7 November 2002 (SAYE) encompassing grants made in
the four years from 2003 to 2006;
(c) Executive Director Incentive Plan (EDIP); and
(d) Save As You Earn share option schemes involving options granted before 7 November 2002 (2002 SAYE) encompassing a grant
made in 2002.
Details of these schemes are provided on pages 18 and 19 in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
In accordance with the transition provisions included in IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all grants after 7
November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes items (a) and (b) above.
The total expense recognised (excluding employers’ National Insurance costs) in respect of these schemes was £3.0m in the 52 weeks
ended 26 December 2006 (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £2.2m).
(a) Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
The PSP provides conditional awards of shares dependent equally on the Group’s earnings per share growth and Total Shareholder
Return (TSR) performance over a three-year period as well as continued employment of the individual at the date of vesting (awards
are usually forfeited if the employee leaves the Group voluntarily before the awards vest). The LTIP provides conditional awards of
shares dependent exclusively on the Group’s TSR performance over a three-year period and continued employment of the individual
at the date of vesting. In the case of both plans, if the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant,
the option lapses.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
74
34. Share-based payments (continued)
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Number Number
Outstanding at beginning of the period 4,735,863 2,287,528
Granted during the period 1,265,153 2,481,919
Forfeited during the period (752,720) (27,437)
Exercised during the period (1,196,187) (6,147)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4,052,109 4,735,863
Exercisable at the end of the period 135,036 10,470
As the PSP and LTIP are conditional awards of shares and therefore the recipients do not have to pay an exercise price, the shares
have, in effect, a zero cost exercise price. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share awards exercised during
the period was £5.86 (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £5.76). 
The awards outstanding at 26 December 2006 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of 7.8 years (27 December 2005 –
8.5 years).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of these awards were as follows:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Weighted average share price at date of grant £4.55 £4.16
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil
Expected volatility 28% 29%
Expected life 3.5 years 3.5 years
Risk free interest rate 4.4% 4.4%
Expected dividend yield 3.2% 3.3%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the option life
where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002), historical volatility has
been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing of the Company, and ending
on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic price movements that arose
immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. The value of the option has also
been adjusted to take into account the market conditions applicable to the option (i.e. TSR requirements) by applying a discount to
the option value. This discount is calculated based on an estimate of the probability of achieving the relevant condition.
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted under the PSP and LTIP schemes at the date of grant was £2.29 per option
(27 December 2005 – £2.02). The expense recognised (excluding employers’ national insurance costs) in respect of relevant PSP and
LTIP schemes in the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 was £1.9m (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £1.1m).
(b) SA YE scheme for grants made in the four years from 2003 to 2006 
Options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, which is open to all eligible employees, are based on a three, five or seven year
monthly savings contract. Options under the scheme are granted with an exercise price up to 20% below the share price when
the savings contract is entered into. The options remain valid for six months beyond the end of the relevant savings contract.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
75
34. Share-based payments (continued)
26 December 2006 27 December 2005
Weighted average Weighted average 
exercise price exercise price
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at beginning of the period 2,245,758 3.08 1,828,281 2.62
Granted during the period 1,027,302 4.60 621,898 4.57
Forfeited during the period (291,356) (3.79) (200,887) (3.47)
Exercised during the period (454,006) (1.83) (3,534) (2.68)
Outstanding at the end of the period 2,527,698 3.84 2,245,758 3.08
Exercisable at the end of the period – – ––
The exercise price for the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 SAYE schemes was £1.76, £3.93, £4.57 and £4.60 respectively.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £6.00 (52 weeks ended
27 December 2005 – £5.42). The options outstanding at 26 December 2006 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of
2.6 years (27 December 2005 – 3.0 years).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of these options were as follows:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Weighted average share price at date of grant £4.40 £3.81
Weighted average exercise price £3.42 £2.98
Expected volatility 28% 30%
Expected life 4.6 years 4.7 years
Risk free interest rate 4.7% 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 3.1% 3.2%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the option life
where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002), historical volatility has
been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing of the Company, and ending
on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic price movements that arose
immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted under these SAYE grants at the date of grant was £1.41 per option
(27 December 2005 – £1.23). The expense recognised in respect of relevant SAYE grants in the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
was £0.8m (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £1.1m).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
76
34. Share-based payments (continued) 
(c) Pre 7 November 2002 schemes 
In accordance with the transition provisions included in IFRS 2, the Group has not recognised an expense in respect of all grants
before 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 31 December 2003. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes options
outstanding in relation to the EDIP and the 2002 SAYE. The EDIP was an incentive arrangement for Messrs. Harding and Singer arising
out of the flotation of the Group. It was structured as a zero cost option. 62% of the EDIP arrangement was exercised in the 52 weeks
ended 26 December 2006. The remaining 400,000 EDIP shares have now vested but have not been exercised by the period end. 
26 December 2006 27 December 2005
Weighted average Weighted average 
exercise price exercise price
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at beginning of the period 4,247,399 1.26 5,880,593 1.41
Forfeited during the period (108,858) (1.80) (129,724) (1.80)
Exercised during the period (981,480) (0.18) (1,503,470) (1.80)
Outstanding at the end of the period 3,157,061 1.57 4,247,399 1.26
Exercisable at the end of the period 400,000 – 1,294,728 0.02
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £6.25 (27 December 2005
– £5.76). The options outstanding at 26 December 2006 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of 1.4 years (27 December
2005 – 2.4 years).
35. Retirement benefit schemes 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom. The respective
costs of these schemes are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Defined contribution scheme (charged to operating profit) 1.3 1.1
Defined benefit scheme (charged to operating profit) 6.8 6.1
Defined benefit scheme (charged to other finance costs/investment income) 0.6 1.1
Defined benefit scheme ((credited)/charged to statement of 
recognised income and expense) (16.7) 1.6
(8.0) 9.9
Defined contribution scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all eligible employees. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. The Group is required to contribute a specified percentage
of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement
benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions. 
The total cost charged to income in respect of the scheme represents contributions payable to this scheme by the Group at rates
specified in the rules of the scheme. As at 26 December 2006, contributions of £nil (27 December 2005–£nil) due in respect of the
current reporting period had not been paid over to the scheme.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
77
35. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Defined benefit scheme
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for eligible employees, which is now closed to new members. Under the scheme, the
employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 1.67% and 3.33% of final salary for each year of service on attainment
of a retirement age of 63. No other post-retirement benefits are provided. The scheme is a funded scheme and the contribution rate
for future service benefits for 2006 was 19.2% of members’ pensionable pay. In addition, during 2006 the Group made an additional
contribution of £9.4m as the second annual payment of a five-year funding plan agreed with the Trustee to remove the funding
deficit disclosed at the last formal actuarial valuation at 30 September 2004. This funding plan will be reviewed following the next
formal actuarial valuation, which is due as at 30 September 2007. 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 30 September 2004 and updated to 26 December 2006 by a qualified
independent actuary. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and past service cost were
measured using the projected unit credit method.
The major assumptions used by the actuary were:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Rate of increase of salaries 4.00% 3.75%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.00% 2.75%
Discount rate 5.10% 4.90%
Inflation rate 3.00% 2.75%
The mortality assumption adopted for these calculations reflects an assumed life expectancy of 22.1 years for a male, currently aged
40, from age 63.
The assets in the scheme and their expected rate of return were as follows:
26 December 2006 27 December 2005
Expected Fair Expected Fair
return value return value
%£m %£m
Equities 6.40 165.6 6.10 141.4
Corporate bonds 5.10 15.8 4.90 12.5
Gilts and cash 4.40 25.3 4.10 18.0
Total market value of assets 206.7 171.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (231.8) (221.2)
Deficit in scheme (25.1) (49.3)
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Current service cost 6.1 5.9
Past service cost 0.7 0.3
Total operating charge 6.8 6.2
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
78
35. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Analysis of the amount (credited) to investment income/charged to finance costs:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets (10.1) (8.6)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 10.7 9.7
Net cost 0.6 1.1
Analysis of the amount recognised in statement of recognised (income) and expenses:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (13.7) (18.8)
Experience gains arising on the scheme liabilities (4.8) (2.1)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme 1.8 22.5
(16.7) 1.6
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period were as follows:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
At beginning of period 221.2 186.5
Movement in period:
Service cost 6.1 5.9
Interest cost 10.7 9.7
Contributions from scheme members 1.2 1.4
Actuarial gains and losses (3.0) 20.3
Benefits paid (5.1) (2.9)
Past service cost 0.7 0.3
At end of period 231.8 221.2
Movements in the present value of fair value of scheme assets in the current period were as follows:
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
At beginning of period 171.9 131.2
Movement in period:
Expected return on scheme assets 10.1 8.6
Actuarial gains and losses 13.7 18.8
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 14.9 14.8
Contributions from scheme members 1.2 1.4
Benefits paid (5.1) (2.9)
At end of period 206.7 171.9
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
79
35. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 13.7 18.8
% of scheme assets 7% 11%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 4.8 2.1
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities 2% 1%
36. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. 
Trading transactions
During the period the Group made purchases of £27.5m (52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 – £23.4m) from Satellite Information
Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Group’s associated undertaking, SIS. At 26 December 2006 the amount payable to Satellite
Information Services Limited by the Group was £nil (27 December 2005 – £nil).
Purchases were made at market price. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been
given or received. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the
categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ . 
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits (including salaries) 2.8 1.2
Post-employment benefits (employer’s contribution) 0.1 0.1
Other long-term benefits – –
Share-based payment (IFRS 2 charges) 0.5 0.5
3.4 1.8
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
80
37. Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first period that the Group has presented its financial information under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in the
year of transition under the provisions of IFRS 1 and show the effects of the transition to IFRS on the Group’s reported performance
and financial position for the comparative periods and on the date of transition. 
The last financial statements prepared under UK GAAP were for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 and the date of transition to
IFRS is therefore 29 December 2004.
Reconciliation of equity at 29 December 2004:
Effects of 
transition 
UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Goodwill h 736.2 (2.9) 733.3
Other intangible assets a,h – 18.7 18.7
Property, plant and equipment a 119.0 (14.8) 104.2
Interest in associate 2.9 – 2.9
Deferred tax assets b,c,d,g 5.9 18.7 24.6
Total non-current assets 864.0 19.7 883.7
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 15.4 – 15.4
Cash and cash equivalents 60.5 – 60.5
Total current assets 76.2 – 76.2
Total assets 940.2 19.7 959.9
Trade and other payables d,e,f (106.9) 39.1 (67.8)
Tax liabilities (46.9) – (46.9)
Bank overdraft and loans (49.8) – (49.8)
Bank loans due after more than one year (447.7) – (447.7)
Retired benefit obligations b,g (38.5) (16.8) (55.3)
Deferred tax liabilities c,h,i – (16.1) (16.1)
Total liabilities (689.8) 6.2 (683.6)
Net assets 250.4 25.9 276.3
Equity
Called-up share capital 40.5 – 40.5
Share premium account 311.3 – 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 1.7 – 1.7
Merger reserve (26.1) – (26.1)
Own shares (59.3) – (59.3)
Hedging and other reserves d – (1.7) (1.7)
Retained earnings e,f,g,i (17.7) 27.6 9.9
Total equity 250.4 25.9 276.3
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
81
37. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 27 December 2005:
Effects of 
transition 
UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Goodwill f,h 1,177.1 (311.4) 865.7
Other intangible assets a,h – 467.0 467.0
Property, plant and equipment a 188.7 (14.2) 174.5
Interest in associate 3.4 – 3.4
Deferred tax assets b,c,d,g – 17.5 17.5
Total non-current assets 1,369.2 158.9 1,528.1
Inventories 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 20.4 – 20.4
Cash and cash equivalents 76.6 – 76.6
Total current assets 97.4 – 97.4
Total assets 1,466.6 158.9 1,625.5
Trade and other payables d,e,f (129.6) 42.6 (87.0)
Tax liabilities (56.7) – (56.7)
Bank overdraft and loans – – –
Bank loans due after more than one year (1,016.1) – (1,016.1)
Retired benefit obligations b,g (31.8) (17.5) (49.3)
Other provisions (7.5) – (7.5)
Deferred tax liabilities c,h,i (5.0) (155.3) (160.3)
Total liabilities (1,246.7) (130.2) (1,376.9)
Net assets 219.9 28.7 248.6
Equity
Called-up share capital 39.1 – 39.1
Share premium account 311.3 – 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 3.1 – 3.1
Merger reserve (26.1) – (26.1)
Own shares (57.5) – (57.5)
Hedging and other reserves d – (1.1) (1.1)
Retained earnings e,f,g,i (50.0) 29.8 (20.2)
Total equity 219.9 28.7 248.6
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
82
37. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Notes to the reconciliation of equity
(a) Software classification – application software, which can be run independently from any specific hardware configuration, is typically
included within other intangibles under IFRS rather than tangible assets as is the norm under UK GAAP . The effect of this is to reclassify
software of £14.2m (29 December 2004 – £14.8m) from tangible assets to intangible assets. Total net assets are not affected by this
adjustment.
(b) Deferred tax associated with pension liabilities – under IFRS deferred tax relating to the pension scheme cannot be netted off against
the pension liability as it is under UK GAAP . This has the effect of increasing the Group’s deferred tax asset by £13.6m (29 December
2004 – £16.5m) with a consequent increase in the net pension liability presented. Net assets are not affected by this adjustment.
(c) Deferred tax offset – due to more restrictive rules on the ability to offset deferred tax liabilities and assets, the deferred tax liabilities
and assets are grossed up by £2.2m (29 December 2004 – £1.3m).
(d) Financial instruments – all derivative instruments are required by IFRS to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Under IFRS,
hedge accounting for derivatives is only allowed where detailed documentation in accordance with IAS 39 is in place. This allows the
movements in fair values of the relevant derivative instrument (but not the related borrowings) to be recognised directly in reserves
and therefore not impact earnings. This issue will have no impact on the Group’s earnings as acceptable hedge accounting
documentation has been in place since 30 December 2003. However the balance sheet does reflect a financial liability of £1.6m
(29 December 2004 – £2.5m) representing the fair value of the relevant derivatives, as well as a related deferred tax asset of £0.5m
(29 December 2004 – £0.8m) offset by corresponding entries in a new ‘hedging reserve’ .
(e) Dividends – under IFRS dividends payable may only be recorded as a liability of the Group when a legal or constructive liability has
been incurred. This is likely to be when the dividend proposed by the Board is made public on the announcement of the Group’s
results. Under UK GAAP , dividends are recorded in the period to which they relate, even if only proposed after the period end. This has
the effect of increasing the net assets of the Group by the amount of the proposed dividend of £46.1m (29 December 2004 – £43.1m).
(f) Holiday pay – it is accepted practice under IFRS to provide for pay for holidays to which staff are entitled but which they have not yet
taken. This has resulted in the recognition of an accrual for holiday pay of £1.9m, £0.4m of which arises from the Stanley acquisition
and therefore affects goodwill calculation (29 December 2004 – £1.5m).
(g) Pensions – a difference arises in the valuation of the pension scheme assets under IFRS, because pension assets must be valued using
bid prices rather than using mid-market prices as is the convention under UK GAAP and there are also differences in measuring the
value of life assurance schemes. This results in an increase in the pension scheme liability of £3.9m (29 December 2004 – £0.3m) and a
consequent adjustment to deferred tax assets of £1.2m (29 December 2004 – £0.1m).
(h) Acquisitions – the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations that took
place before 30 December 2003. The Group has adopted IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ in full for all acquisitions that have occurred
after this date. This has resulted in the recognition of additional intangible fixed assets of £452.8m (29 December 2004 – £3.9m) and
related deferred tax liabilities of £141.0m (29 December 2004 – £1.0m). Under UK GAAP the intangible fixed assets would have been
recognised in goodwill and the deferred tax liability would not have arisen. 
(i) Deferred tax on properties acquired via business combinations – under IFRS, a tax timing difference of £12.1m (29 December 2004 –
£13.8m) has been recognised in respect of properties previously acquired via acquisitions.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
83
37. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of profit or loss for 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005:
Effects of 
transition 
UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Revenue a 10,746.1 (9,940.8) 805.3
Cost of sales a (10,114.9) 9,940.8 (174.1)
Gross profit 631.2 – 631.2
Other operating income 5.9 – 5.9
Other operating expenses (421.6) – (421.6)
Share of results of associate b 3.6 (1.0) 2.6
Operating profit 219.1 (1.0) 218.1
Investment income b 11.2 (0.1) 11.1
Finance costs (54.6) – (54.6)
Profit before tax 175.7 (1.1) 174.6
Tax c (64.3) 2.8 (61.5)
Profit for the period 111.4 1.7 113.1
Notes to the reconciliation of profit or loss 
(a) Revenue and cost of sales – under IFRS revenue represents gains and losses on betting activity for all revenue streams. This is different
from UK GAAP where revenue from Retail, Telephone and Interactive sportsbook (including FOBTs, games on the online arcade and
other numbers bets) represents total amounts wagered by customers. The effect of this change is to reduce both revenue and cost of
sales by £9,940.8m. This has no impact on operating profit.
(b) Associate profit – under IFRS, the share of the associate’s result included in the Group’s operating profit is after a charge for interest
and tax. These items were shown within the Group’s interest and tax charges under UK GAAP . This has the effect of reducing operating
profit by £1.0m, representing interest income of £0.1m and the tax charge of the associate (see (c) below).
(c) Tax charge – the tax charge is £2.8m lower under IFRS compared to UK GAAP reflecting a combination of: 
• £1.1m reduction arising from the different treatment of associate tax highlighted in (b) above; and
• £1.7m reduction reflecting a deferred tax movement on properties acquired via business combinations, which are ignored under
UK GAAP but provided for under IFRS. 
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash flow statement for 2005
There are no significant adjustments between the cash flow statements produced under IFRS as against UK GAAP .
Notes to the Group Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
To the members of William Hill PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 which
comprise the parent company balance sheet, parent company statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 15.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an Auditors’ Report and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report
to you whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited parent company financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent
company financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors
in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs as at 26 December 2006;
• The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• The information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
United Kingdom
5 March 2007
Parent Company Independent Auditors’ Report
Parent Company Independent Auditors Report
Parent Company Independent Auditors’
Report
84 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
85
Parent Company Balance Sheet
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 5 38.2 38.2
38.2 38.2
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 6 1,794.9 1,757.0
Cash at bank and in hand ––
1,794.9 1,757.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (172.8) (162.7)
Net current assets 1,622.1 1,594.3
Total assets less current liabilities 1,660.3 1,632.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (1,140.0) (1,016.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 10 (4.0) –
Net assets 516.3 616.4
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 11,12 36.2 39.1
Share premium account 12 311.3 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 12 6.0 3.1
Own shares held 12 (46.4) (56.1)
Hedging reserve 12 9.4 (1.1)
Profit and loss account 12 199.8 320.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 13 516.3 616.4
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2007 and are signed on its behalf by:
DCI Harding SP Lane
Director Director
Parent Company Balance Sheet
as at 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
86
The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable UK
GAAP accounting standards. A summary of the Company’s principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently
throughout the period and the preceding period is set out below.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards and company law.
Exemptions
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and not presented
a profit and loss account for the Company alone. The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a
cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 ‘Cash flow statements’ . The cash flows of the Company are included in the William
Hill PLC Group financial statements. The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Parties’ from disclosing
related party transactions with entities that are part of the William Hill PLC Group.
Changes in accounting policy
The Company has adopted the following standards in these financial statements:
• FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’;
• FRS 21 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’;
• FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation’; and
• FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’ .
The adoption of each of these standards represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been
restated accordingly.  Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are given in note 1.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision, if any, for impairment.
Cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued for investments in subsidiaries acquired for
consideration that includes the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief. Any premium is ignored.
Tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as
stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence,
it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over,
being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies
Parent Company Statement of Accounting
Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
87
Foreign exchange
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at
an average rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the
rates ruling at that date. Translation differences arising are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of that debt at a constant rate on the carrying
amount.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs. The carrying amount is reduced by
payments made in the period. Accrued finance costs are included within accruals and deferred income.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps and collars. The Company does not enter into
speculative derivative contracts. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing
underlying exposure of the William Hill PLC Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Amounts payable or
receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Termination payments made or received are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying
exposure continues to exist. In other cases termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Own shares held
Own shares held in treasury and held in employment benefit trusts are included within reserves. 
Share-based payments
The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’ in these financial statements. In accordance with
the transition provisions included in FRS 20, its provisions have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were
unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees within the William Hill PLC Group and operates
a number of Inland Revenue approved Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option schemes open to all eligible employees within the
William Hill PLC Group, which allow the purchase of shares at a discount. The cost to the Group of both of these share-based
payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period,
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and is borne by the employing company within the Group.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula. The expected life used in the model has been
adjusted, based on management’s best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions
applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in note 34 of the Group financial statements.
Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies
6. Accounts_2 [c95709].qxd  23/3/07  12:17  Page 87 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
88
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial
Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
1. Changes in accounting policies and restatement of comparatives
The prior year adjustments relate to the implementation of FRS 21, FRS 25 and FRS 26. 
FRS 21 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’
This standard sets out amended requirements for accounting for events after the balance sheet date. Following the introduction of
this standard, dividends may only be recorded as a liability of the Company when a legal or constructive liability has been incurred.
This is likely to be when the dividend proposed by the Board is made public on the announcement of the Company’s results.
Previously under UK GAAP , dividends were recorded in the period to which they relate, even if only proposed after the period end.
This has the effect of increasing the net assets of the Company by the amount of the proposed dividend at the 27 December 2005
of £46.1m.
FRS 25 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation’
FRS 25 supersedes FRS 13 and substantially amends FRS 4 ‘Capital instruments’ . This standard is effective for the Company from 28
December 2005. However, as the Group financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS equivalent standard (IAS 32), the
parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements.
FRS 26 ‘Financial instruments: Measurement’
FRS 26 applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 and prescribes new accounting rules relating to financial instruments
and hedge accounting. This standard has been adopted in full in these financial statements and the requirement applied
prospectively from 29 December 2004. 
FRS 26 requires all derivative instruments to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value and allows the movements in fair values of
the relevant derivative instrument (but not the related borrowings) to be recognised directly in reserves and therefore not impact
earnings. The impact of this standard is to reflect a liability in the balance sheet at 27 December 2005 of £1.6m as well as a related
deferred tax asset of £0.5m offset by corresponding entries in a new ‘hedging reserve’ .
2. Directors’ remuneration and interests
The Company had no employees other than directors during the current or prior period. The Company did not operate any pension
schemes during the current or prior period. Details of directors’ remuneration and other entitlements which form part of these
financial statements are given in the parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 25, which are described as having
been audited.
Directors’ interests
The directors had the following interests, including family interests (all of which were beneficial) in the ordinary shares of William Hill PLC:
26 December 27 December
2006
1
2005
Number Number
Chairman:
Charles Scott 85,817 85,817
Executive directors:
David Harding 50,000 50,000
Tom Singer – 31,286
Simon Lane 1,500 –
Non-executive directors:
David Allvey 13,333 13,333
David Edmonds 5,000 5,000
Barry Gibson 15,556 15,556
1
Or in the case of Mr Singer, at the date of termination of employment
No changes took place in the interests of directors between 26 December 2006 and 5 March 2007.
No director had any interest in shares in any other Group company. William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
89
2. Directors’ remuneration and interests (continued)
Directors’ share options
Details of directors’ share options are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 25, which are described as
having been audited.
3. Auditors remuneration
In accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.2417 fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates are shown in note 5
of the Group financial statements.
4. Dividends proposed and paid
26 December 27 December 26 December 27 December
2006 2005 2006 2005
Per share Per share £m £m
Equity shares:
– current year interim dividend paid 7.25p 6.1p 25.6 23.5
– prior year final dividend paid 12.2p 11.0p 45.3 43.1
19.45p 17.1p 70.9 66.6
Proposed dividend 14.5p 12.2p 51.2 46.1
Further details of dividends paid are shown in note 10 of the Group financial statements.
5. Investments
£m
Cost and net book value:
At 28 December 2005 and 26 December 2006 38.2
The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their share capital and the nature of their trade
are shown in note 14 to the Group financial statements.
6. Debtors
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,780.4 1,756.0
Financial derivatives (note 9) 14.4 –
Deferred taxation (note 10) – 0.5
Prepayments 0.1 0.5
1,794.9 1,757.0
Amounts falling due after more than one year included above are £nil (27 December  2005: £nil).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
90
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 155.6 145.6
Other taxation including social security – 0.9
Financial derivatives (note 9) – 1.6
Accruals and deferred income 17.2 14.6
172.8 162.7
8. Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Bank overdrafts and loans
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans 1,145.0 1,020.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year – –
In the second year – –
In the third to fifth years inclusive 1,145.0 1,020.0
1,145.0 1,020.0
Less: expenses relating to loan (5.0) (3.9)
1,140.0 1,016.1
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months 
(shown under current liabilities) – –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,140.0 1,016.1
Further details of bank loans are shown in note 21 of the Group financial statements. 
9. Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Company holds derivatives and other financial instruments on behalf of the William Hill PLC Group. The Operating and Financial
Review provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during the period in creating or changing the risks that
the Group faces in its activities. The explanation summarises the objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments
and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the period.
Further details of derivatives are shown in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
The value of net foreign currency monetary assets at 26 December 2006 was £nil (27 December 2005 £nil).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial
Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
91
10. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
Deferred tax:
£m
At 28 December 2005 (as previously stated) –
Prior year adjustment (note 1) 0.5
As restated 0.5
Deferred tax on hedging movement (4.5)
At 26 December 2006 (4.0)
All deferred tax arises on fair values ascribed to financial derivatives.
11. Called-up share capital
26 December 2006 27 December 2005
Number of Number of
shares £m shares £m
Authorised – ordinary shares of 10p each 800,000,000 80.0 800,000,000 80.0
Called-up, allotted and fully paid – ordinary shares of 10p each
At start of period 390,738,991 39.1 404,881,389 40.5
Shares cancelled (29,107,738) (2.9) (14,142,398) (1.4)
At end of period 361,631,253 36.2 390,738,991 39.1
The shares were cancelled during the period as part of the Company’s share buy back programme.
Share Options
Options have been granted to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company under various share option and award schemes as
shown below:
Number of Price
shares under per Exercise
option share period
Executive Directors’ Incentive Plan 400,000 – Between 2003 and 2008
Long Term Incentive Plan (2003) 125,044 – Between 2006 and 2013
Long Term Incentive Plan (2004) 662,849 – Between 2007 and 2014
Operating Bonus 2004 31,157 – Between 2008 and 2015
Performance Share Plan (2005) 1,995,529 – Between 2008 and 2015
Performance Share Plan (2006) 1,128,489 Between 2009 and 2016
SAYE 2002 2,757,061 £1.80 Between 2005 and 2010
SAYE 2003 544,013 £1.76 Between 2006 and 2011
SAYE 2004 531,443 £3.93 Between 2007 and 2012
SAYE 2005 489,742 £4.57 Between 2008 and 2013
SAYE 2006 962,500 £4.60 Between 2009 and 2014
Note 34 to the Group financial statements has further information on these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions
used in formulating an expense charge in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
92
12. Reserves
Called-up Share Capital Own Profit and
share premium redemption shares Hedging loss 
capital account reserve held reserve account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 28 December 2005 as previously stated 39.1 311.3 3.1 (56.1) – 274.0 571.4
Prior year adjustments:
FRS 26 (note 1) –––– (1.1) – (1.1)
FRS 21 (note 1) ––––– 46.1 46.1
At 28 December 2005 (as restated) 39.1 311.3 3.1 (56.1) (1.1) 320.1 616.4
Retained profit for the financial period ––––– 137.3 137.3
Shares repurchased and cancelled (2.9) – 2.9 – – (178.4) (178.4)
Transfer of own shares to recipients – – – 9.7 – (8.3) 1.4
Change in fair value of derivatives –––– 14.3 – 14.3
Transfer to income in respect of derivatives –––– 0.7– 0.7
Deferred tax on derivatives –––– (4.5) – (4.5)
Dividends paid ––––– (70.9) (70.9)
At 26 December 2006 36.2 311.3 6.0 (46.4) 9.4 199.8 516.3
13. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders' funds
26 December 27 December
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Opening equity shareholders’ funds as previously reported 571.4 605.7
Prior period adjustments:
FRS 26 (note 1) (1.1) (1.7)
FRS 21 (note 1) 46.1 43.1
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (as restated) 616.4 647.1
Profit for the financial period 137.3 115.4
Dividends paid (70.9) (66.6)
Own shares purchased during period (178.4) (78.7)
Change in fair value of derivative 15.0 (0.5)
Deferred tax on change in fair value of derivative (4.5) (0.3)
Movement on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients 1.4 –
Net reduction to equity shareholders’ funds (100.1) (30.7)
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 516.3 616.4
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial
Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2006
6. Accounts_2 [c95709].qxd  23/3/07  12:18  Page 92 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
93
14. Financial commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 26 December 2006 (27 December 2005 – £nil).
The Company had no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases at 26 December 2006 (27 December 2005 – £nil).
15. Related party transactions
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ not to disclose
transactions with companies within the William Hill PLC Group, which are related parties.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
UK GAAP
1
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
(restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Summarised results:
Amounts wagered 13,235.9 10,746.1 8,287.7 5,945.8 3,365.3
Revenue 894.2 805.3 N/A N/A N/A
Profit from operations before exceptional items
(including associates) 292.2 245.0 234.1 200.4 140.8
Profit from operations after exceptional items 
(including associates) 292.2 218.1 234.1 200.4 120.7
Profit before tax 235.4 174.6 207.4 169.5 31.8
Profit for the financial period 166.8 113.1 149.8 124.3 20.4
Summarised balance sheets: 
Assets employed:
Non current assets 1,563.5 1,528.1 858.1 834.1 827.9
Current assets 144.0 97.4 82.1 68.7 62.0
Current liabilities (181.4) (143.7) (203.6) (187.1) (145.5)
Non-current liabilities (1,335.6) (1,225.7) (486.2) (398.3) (499.5)
Long term provisions – (7.5) – – –
Net assets 190.5 248.6 250.4 317.4 244.9
Financed by:
Equity 190.5 248.6 250.4 317.4 244.9
Key statistics:
+ EBITDA (£m) 322.0 269.8 251.5 221.7 158.8
Basic earnings per share (pre-exceptionals) 45.5p 29.0p 36.5p 29.7p 16.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pre-exceptionals) 44.9p 28.6p 35.9p 29.3p 16.5p
Dividends per share (paid)
2
19.45p 17.1p 14.5p 9.3p 2.9p
Share price – high £6.63 £6.24 £5.68 £4.30 £2.87
Share price – low £5.35 £4.85 £4.20 £1.93 £1.96
+ EBITDA represents profit on ordinary activities before finance charges, tax, depreciation and amortisation and excludes exceptional
items and impairment of goodwill.
1
The amounts for 2002 to 2004 are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practical to restate amounts for periods prior to
the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS have been discussed in note 37 of the Group
financial statements.
2
Dividends per share have been presented on a paid basis in line with IFRS.
5 year summary
5 year summary
94 amusement with prize electronic slot machines into which customers insert coins to play games of chance; current UK
machines or AWPs regulations allow up to two AWPs in each LBO, each of which can pay cash prizes of up to £25
ABB Association of British Bookmakers
BAGS Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services Limited, a non profit making company set up by various
bookmakers, including William Hill
Company William Hill PLC
DCMS Department of Culture, Media and Sport
FOBTs fixed odds betting terminals, being self-service terminals situated in LBOs offering fixed odds bets
Gambling Act the legislation which received Royal Ascent in 2005 regarding the modernisation of the laws relating
to betting and gaming within the UK
Gambling Commission the Gambling Commission for Great Britain, the regulatory body for casinos, bingo clubs, gaming
machines, betting, remote gambling and larger lotteries (including all local lotteries but excluding the
National Lottery)
gross profit tax or GPT a duty charged by the UK Government of 15% of a bookmaker’s gross win, introduced in October
2001
gross win total customer stakes less customer winnings
horse racing levy a levy attributable to bets taken on horse racing and payable to the Horserace Betting Levy Board,
primarily for purposes of augmenting the prize money available for winning horses and providing
certain racecourse amenities
LBO licensed betting office
RGA Remote Gambling Association
SIS Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited or its subsidiary Satellite Information Services
Limited, as the context requires
sportsbook bets accepted on sporting and other events
Stanley Retail the LBOs acquired from Stanley Leisure plc in June 2005
William Hill or the Group the Company and its subsidiaries, or any of them, as the context may require
Glossary
Glossary William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
95 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006
96
Share price
William Hill listed on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2002 and the share price on listing was 225p. Shareholders can access
the current share price at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
Shop location
To find the shop closest to you go to our shop locator at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
Financial Calendar
Preliminary announcement 05 - March - 2007
Final ex-dividend date 25 - April - 2007
Record date for final dividend 27 - April - 2007
AGM 17 - May - 2007
Payment date for final dividend 05 - June - 2007
Registrar
The registrar of the Company is Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, HD8
0LA (www.capitaregistrars.com). Telephone 0870 162 3100. 
Please contact Capita for advice regarding any change of name or address, transfer of shares or loss of share certificate. Capita will also
be able to respond to queries on the number of shares you hold and the payment details for dividends.
You may give instructions for your dividend to be used to purchase additional William Hill Shares. Full details of the dividend
reinvestment plan (‘DRIP’) can be found in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website (www.williamhillplc.co.uk) under
shareholder information and a form of mandate can be found within the downloadable forms section. Alternatively contact Capita
Registrars.
Potential targeting of shareholders
Over the last year many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or
correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering
to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. They can be very persistent and
extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by
investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the victims had been
successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a
discount or offer of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice it is recommended that you:
● Make sure you get the name of the person and organisation;
● Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register;
● The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and
any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that the list can be kept up to date and any other
appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at
www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml; and
● Inform our registrar’s compliance department on 020 8639 2041 or email compliance@capitaregistrars.com.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer/.
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information Founded in 1934, William Hill is one of the leading providers of fixed odds bookmaking
services, offering odds and taking bets on a wide range of sporting and other events, as
well as offering amusement with prizes machines and fixed odds betting terminals in
licensed betting offices and operating online casino, poker and games sites as well as two
greyhound stadia.
It is a market leader in all major betting channels in the UK with an established
international presence through its online business.
Online Channels :
williamhill.co.uk
williamhillcasino.com
williamhillpoker.com
williamhillskill.com
williamhillgames.com
williamhillbingo.com
mobile.willhill.com
Telephone Channels :
Debit: 0800 44 40 40
Credit: 0800 289 892
Retail Channel :
Over 2,200 shops
Corporate Website :
williamhillplc.co.uk William Hill PLC
Greenside House,
50 Station Road,
Wood Green,
London N22 7TP
Tel: 020 8918 3600
Fax: 020 8918 3775
Reg No: 4212563 England
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
