 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2
Founded in 1934, William Hill is one of the leading providers
of ﬁxed odds bookmaking services, offering odds and taking
bets on a wide range of sporting and other events, as well as
offering Amusement With Prizes machines and Fixed Odds
Betting Terminals in licensed betting ofﬁces and operating
online casino and poker sites, an interactive TV channel and
greyhound stadia.
It is a market leader in all major betting channels in the UK
with an established international presence through its 
online business.
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 1
Financial Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement 3
Chief Executive’s Review 4
Operating and Financial Review 8
Board of Directors 15
Professional Advisers 16
Directors’ Report 17
Directors’ Remuneration Report 19
Statement on Corporate Governance 27
Report of the Nomination Committee 31
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee 32
Corporate Responsibility Statement 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 40
Independent Auditors’ Report 41
Financial Statements 42
Glossary 96
Shareholder Information 97
Contents
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Contents 2
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Financial Highlights
Financial Highlights
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before exceptional items and ﬁnance
charges up 5% to £246.0m (2004: £234.1m)
Adjusted basic earnings per share (before exceptional items)
were 36.2 pence (2004: 36.5 pence). Basic earnings per share
were 28.5 pence (2004: 36.5 pence)
Interim dividend of 6.1 pence per share (paid on 5 December
2005) and proposed ﬁnal dividend of 12.2 pence per share
(payable on 6 June 2006 to shareholders on the register on 5 May
2006) giving a total dividend up 11% to 18.3 pence per share
(2004: 16.5 pence per share)
Integration of the Stanley Retail business into the existing William
Hill estate will be complete by the end of the ﬁrst quarter 2006.
Annualised synergies and other beneﬁts will exceed
initial estimate of £13m and could exceed £20m over the
medium term
Total returned to shareholders since ﬂotation in June 2002
amounts to £446m (including dividends and share buy-backs).
£78.3m of shares purchased in 2005 out of proposed buy-back
programme of £200-£300m announced in September 2005.
Intention to renew mandate for up to a 10% share buy-back
Successful installation of replacement text and EPOS systems in
the William Hill estate 
Satisfactory start to the current trading year Sporting results were not generally in
our favour and this led to lower levels of
gross win in our traditional sports
betting business in the Retail and
Telephone channels. This was
compensated for by growth in FOBTs
and in our Interactive division which
continued to increase gross win
substantially, particularly in online poker
and arcade games but also in its
sportsbook. We continued to maintain a
tight control over costs.
Our acquisition of Stanley Leisure plc’s
betting shops in the UK, Republic of
Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle
of Man has substantially improved our
competitive position in the UK and
given access to the Irish betting market.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made in
integrating the business into the
existing William Hill estate and this
project will be complete by the end of
the ﬁrst quarter of 2006. We believe that
synergies and other beneﬁts of the
acquisition will exceed the £13m we
initially expected.
We successfully installed a replacement
text system and a new EPOS system into
the William Hill estate to replace
mechanical tills and cameras, which
have served us for over 25 years. The
automation of the betting process is
delivering gains in labour productivity in
the LBOs and cost savings in central
functions. It has also been well received
by our customers. This major project
was rolled out in the William Hill estate
with minimum disruption and the same
technology is being rolled out to the
Stanley estate. This phase of the project
will be completed by March 2006.
We also commenced a three-year
programme to upgrade our core
bookmaking systems which, when
complete, will provide signiﬁcant
business beneﬁts and give our
customers the convenience of betting
across our channels through a single
account.
There were a number of developments
in our industry during the course of
2005, particularly in the areas of
regulation and taxation. The Gambling
Act 2005 was enacted although the key
provisions will not come into force until
late 2007. There are a number of
provisions which are expected to be
beneﬁcial to the betting industry
including longer opening hours in the
winter, the classiﬁcation of FOBTs as
gaming machines and the introduction
in LBOs of £500 jackpot machines. Other
provisions including the removal of the
demand criteria could also impact our
estate although we believe that this may
not be signiﬁcant over the longer term.
We are working closely with the newly
established Gambling Commission to
assist in developing its policies and
procedures which will regulate future
operations.
In its Pre-Budget Report in December
2005 the Government set out its
conclusions in respect of its review of
gambling taxation which was initiated in
the 2004 Budget. We were pleased that,
at the present time, the Government has
decided not to increase the rate of gross
proﬁt tax. However, we were
disappointed that the Government
decided not to change the way in which
betting exchanges are taxed. This
continues to provide them with an
unfair advantage over traditional
bookmakers and the pressure on
theoretical horse racing margins in
particular is expected to continue. An
independent committee under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue is
reviewing the starting price mechanism
and its ﬁndings are expected to be
announced in the early summer. There
were changes announced in the way in
which FOBTs are taxed from the
previous regime in which FOBT income
was subject to betting duty to one in
which it is subject to VAT. From April
2006 FOBTs will also be subject to
amusement machine license duty
(AMLD). The rate of AMLD is to be set in
the 2006 Budget. It is possible that the
rate at which remote gaming will be
taxed will also be announced in the
2006 Budget. 
Our dispute with the BHB which in past
years led to signiﬁcant uncertainty with
regard to the cost of content for the
entire industry was resolved in our
favour by a judgment in the Court of
Appeal. The judgment will reduce the
ability of sports bodies to charge
additional amounts for data. As a
separate matter, the Government has
established an additional committee
under the chairmanship of Lord
Donoughue to examine the
replacement of the statutory levy. An
initial report has been published and
the Government has conﬁrmed its
intention to end the levy in September
2009.
As a result of the Stanley acquisition we
introduced new ﬁnancing arrangements
and gave guidance on a target capital
structure. Consistent with this guidance,
the Board indicated its intention in
September 2005 to return £200m –
300m by way of on-market share buy-
backs within an eighteen month period.
By the end of 2005 we had bought back
£78.3m of shares.
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend
of 12.2 pence per share which combined
with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence
per share results in total dividends for
the year of 18.3 pence per share, an 11%
increase on the total dividends paid in
the comparable period.
I would like to formally extend a warm
welcome to all the Stanley employees
who have joined William Hill and thank
all our colleagues for their hard work  in
a challenging year.
Trading in the ﬁrst eight weeks of 2006
has been mixed, with some strong
weeks, aided by more favourable
football results, and some poor weeks,
particularly for horseracing which has
been impacted by both unfavourable
results and ﬁxture cancellations. Online
gaming continues to grow strongly and
costs remain under tight control.
After this relatively short trading period,
and with the World Cup and the full year
beneﬁts of both the Stanley acquisition
and EPOS rollout still to come, the Board
remains conﬁdent in the prospects for
the Group.
Charles Scott
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairman’s Statement
In 2005, our third full year as
a public company, we took a
number of key strategic
steps, including the
acquisition of Stanley Leisure
plc’s betting shops and
investment in EPOS and new
text systems in our LBOs.
Earnings per share excluding
exceptional items fell slightly
but as a sign of the Board’s
conﬁdence for the future, we
are proposing to increase
total dividends by 11%. Proﬁt on ordinary activities before
taxation and exceptional items was
£246.0m (2004: £234.1m) and included a
contribution of £15.6m from our
acquisition of Stanley Leisure plc’s retail
betting operations (Stanley Retail) in
June 2005. Earnings per share excluding
exceptional items were 36.2p, broadly
level with 2004.
We continued to invest in our business
across all three channels. We invested in
the ongoing development of our estate,
the replacement of our text systems and
the installation of electronic point of sale
terminals (EPOS). In addition we
commenced a three-year programme to
update our core bookmaking systems.
As this progresses, our technology
infrastructure will improve signiﬁcantly
with a common architecture across our
business which will allow prices, results
and products to be distributed easily;
provide a consolidated risk
management capability and give our
customers a single account with which
to gamble across all channels.
In 2005, the Group’s sports betting
activities, in common with other
bookmakers, were adversely affected by
sporting results compared to generally
more favourable results in 2004. In
addition, the Group continued to
experience downward pressure on
theoretical margins on horseracing,
which we ﬁrst reported on in 2004. This
adverse trend was largely offset by
particularly strong performances in the
Fixed Odds Betting Terminal (FOBT) and
poker businesses. Operating expenses
were kept under tight control. 
Acquisition of Stanley Retail 
The acquisition of Stanley Retail was
completed on 18 June 2005 adding 624
LBOs to the existing William Hill estate.
The headline price for the acquisition
was £504m, which after a working
capital adjustment, professional fees
and stamp duty resulted in total cash
consideration of £506.6m.
Subject to William Hill providing
satisfactory undertakings, the OFT
decided not to refer the acquisition to
the Competition Commission. The
undertakings related to the disposal of
77 LBOs (and potentially another two
LBOs) out of the combined estate.
76 LBOs (64 Stanley Retail shops and
12 William Hill shops) have been sold to
the Tote for net consideration of
£34.4m.The LBOs sold to the Tote were
on average less proﬁtable than the rest
of the estate.
A dedicated multi-disciplinary team was
established to take control of Stanley
Retail and set about the task of
integrating the operation into the
enlarged William Hill Group.
Post OFT clearance, the Group started to
integrate the two businesses. Key tasks
included the harmonisation of products,
prices, and betting rules; progressive re-
branding of the shops; installation of the
same version of electronic point of sale
and audiovisual text systems recently
deployed in the William Hill estate; re-
negotiation of contracts with key
suppliers; and wind down of the Stanley
Retail head ofﬁce. We remain conﬁdent of
achieving synergies and other beneﬁts in
excess of the £13m that we estimated at
the time of the acquisition and we
believe that these could exceed £20m
over the medium term. Incremental
beneﬁts include a reduction in betting
tax in the Republic of Ireland from 2% to
1% of turnover from 1 July 2006; the
removal of pre-race data charges payable
to the British Horseracing Board in certain
jurisdictions following a judgment in the
Republic of Ireland; and beneﬁts arising
from a management restructure relating
to the combined retail estate.
Retail
The Retail division grew gross win by
13.7% to £623.4m (0.8% excluding
Stanley Retail) and proﬁt increased by
9.7% to £181.6m (0.3% excluding
Stanley Retail).
Excluding Stanley Retail, gross win on
over the counter (OTC) and amusement
with prizes machines (AWPs) fell by 6.9%
and 69.0%, respectively, but this was
compensated for by an increase in FOBT
gross win of 33.5%. 
In the William Hill estate total gross win
declined 1.3% and increased 3.3% in the
ﬁrst and second half years, respectively,
against the comparative periods.
LBOs in the Stanley Retail estate
performed better year-on-year than
those in the original William Hill estate in
the period from their acquisition
through to the year end. The pattern of a
reduction in OTC and AWP gross win and
an increase in FOBT gross win was also
seen in Stanley Retail. 
The average number of FOBTs in the
William Hill estate increased to 5,892 in
the period (2004: 4,442). We ﬁnished the
year with 6,078 FOBTs (2004: 5,573) in
the William Hill estate and 1,613 FOBTs
in the Stanley estate. The average net
proﬁt per machine per week in the
William Hill estate was £402 (2004: £373)
for the year and in the Stanley Retail
estate was £293 for the period since its
acquisition. The improved proﬁtability in
the William Hill estate was mainly due to
better contractual terms with our main
FOBT supplier Leisure Link effective from
May 2005.
The number of AWPs in the William Hill
estate at the end of the year was 276
(2004: 530) and the average number
traded in the period fell from 1,392 in
2004 to 353 in 2005. In Stanley Retail,
there were 335 AWPs at the end of the
year.
Costs in the channel were up 17.0%
(1.5% excluding Stanley Retail).
Excluding Stanley Retail, there were
savings in staff costs due to reduced
overtime and premium payments under
the new employment contracts with
shop staff and productivity
improvements resulting from the
investment in EPOS. FOBT rentals fell
due to more favourable contractual
terms, which are exclusively royalty
based, and AWP rentals fell due to the
reduction in the number of machines in
the estate. These savings were offset by
increases in rent and rates due to
increased shop numbers and rent
reviews; energy costs; communications
costs incurred to provide EPOS
infrastructure; picture and data costs
due to additional shop numbers,
increased charges from SIS and the
number of LBOs showing Sky Sports;
and depreciation and maintenance
charges as a result of introducing new
text and EPOS systems.
We completed 138 development and
shop ﬁtting projects during the year
including 31 new licences, 53 extensions
and resites and 54 shopﬁttings. We
spent £23m on estate development in
the year.
At the end of the year we had 2,121
LBOs in the United Kingdom, 9 in the
Channel Islands, 2 in the Isle of Man and
52 in the Republic of Ireland; a total of
2,184. 
We completed the installation of a new
text system and an EPOS system in the
4
Chief Executive’s Review
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s Review William Hill estate in the year with
minimal disruption and extended the
rollout of the same systems to the
Stanley Retail estate. The total cash
investment in respect of these projects is
expected to be £53m.
Telephone
Telephone gross win fell by 11.4% to
£53.4m and proﬁt fell by 41.2% to
£13.0m. This channel is the most
vulnerable to adverse sporting results
and the decline in theoretical
horseracing betting margins as its
higher staking customers tend to back a
higher proportion of favourites and are
less likely to recycle winnings.
There was a fall in gross win against the
comparative period in both the ﬁrst and
second half of 2005, although the fall in
the second half was less pronounced
than in the ﬁrst half.
Costs in this channel were up 10.9% due
to increases in bank charges and a
higher allocation of central technology
costs.
We ended the year with 174,000 active
telephone customers (2004: 184,000).
Interactive 
Interactive gross win increased 16.2% to
£123.3m and proﬁt grew 18.4% to
£61.2m.
Growth in gross win was seen across all
products with the strongest growth in
poker, which increased 90%. Sportsbook
gross win grew despite adverse sporting
results, on the back of an increase in
turnover and active accounts. Our
arcade experienced strong growth and
the casino showed a small increase in
gross win. 
In October 2004 we launched William
Hill TV (WHTV) on Sky Channel 425.
Gross win generated through the
interactive games arcade remains low.
However, we have seen an increase in
stakes placed through the Interactive
and Telephone sportsbooks on
greyhound racing shown live on
Channel 425. We have commenced a
trial broadcast of Channel 425 content
into our betting shops and we hope that
this will increase shop gross win as well
as draw shop punters to interactive
television outside shop hours. We will
evaluate the beneﬁts of Channel 425 in
mid 2006.
Gross win grew against the comparative
periods in both the ﬁrst and second half
years of 2005 and the growth achieved
in the second half was just below that
achieved in the ﬁrst half. Betting grew at
4.6% in the ﬁrst half and 15.6% in the
second half and gaming (casino and
poker) grew at 30.9% in the ﬁrst half and
15.3% in the second half. 
We continue to expand our range of in
running betting opportunities and
launched a live betting console on our
sportsbook, which enables the rapid
update of prices during play. We
enhanced our single account
proposition and Interactive and
Telephone customers can now bet on
sports, poker, casino, and arcade from a
single wallet. We launched 5 new arcade
games that expanded our offering to 10
games. Our mobile sportsbook service is
supported on the majority of WAP
enabled handsets.
We upgraded our poker product
through our partner Cryptologic and
they now have the ﬁfth largest poker
room on the internet. As a result, our
players compete for over $3.5m in
guaranteed tournament prize pools
each month. Players can also qualify for
the World Series of Poker and European
Poker Tour events. William Hill continues
to build its poker brand and is the ofﬁcial
sponsor of the European Poker
Rankings. The ﬁnals of the William Hill
Grand Prix attracted top players from
around the world with a prize pool of
£450,000. The ﬁnals are being broadcast
on Sky television.
As part of our international strategy we
launched a Greek language poker room
to complement our Greek download
and instant casinos. 
We added 31 new games to our Boss
and Cryptologic download casinos,
including 6 Marvel Comic themed
games targeted at the slot machine
market and blackjack and roulette
variants aimed at the European market.
We now offer over 140 games and paid
out over £750,000 in shared progressive
jackpots in 2005.
Total active accounts increased to
341,000 as at 27 December 2005 (28
December 2004: 292,000).
Costs in the channel increased 20.7%
due to increased marketing activities
to support the growth of our poker
business and to fund the costs of
Channel 425 production and content. 
Cost of content
In July 2005 the Court of Appeal agreed
with the European Court of Justice (ECJ)
interpretation of the Database Directive,
which had previously been referred to
the ECJ by the Court of Appeal in
relation to our dispute with the BHB on
the use of certain racing data. This
judgment supported the Group’s
position. Subsequently, the BHB has
decided not to challenge this judgment
thus bringing to an end the dispute that
commenced in 2001.
Had the BHB been successful, their
database would have been the basis of
a commercial deal between racing and
betting that would have allowed the
statutory levy scheme to end. As a result
5
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s Review
Retail Telephone Interactive
0 £m
20.5
54.9
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
37.1
84.9
2002 2003 2004 2005
Gross win
Trading profit
£m
111.9
418.9
Gross win Gross win
Trading profit
0
600
500
400
300
200
100
152.4
505.6
2002 2003 2004 2005
£m
50.9
17.3
Gross win
Trading profit
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
56.5
22.2
2002 2003 2004 2005
548.1 548.1
165.5
60.3
22.1
100
51.7
106.1
17.3
623.4
181.6
Gross win
Trading profit
Stanley William Hill
53.4
13.0
123.3
61.2 6
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s Review
of the decision, the Government has
extended the statutory levy until 2009
and appointed a committee, under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue,
to ﬁnd an alternative basis for a
commercial arrangement. The
committee issued its draft report in
December 2005. It is anticipated that
discussion will take place between
interested parties during 2006 in order
to assess whether a viable alternative to
the current statutory levy can be
developed from the options identiﬁed
by the committee.
The betting industry has contractual
arrangements in place with the
country’s 59 racetracks for the supply of
horseracing pictures into LBOs. These
contracts expire between spring 2007
and summer 2009.
With regard to football, the Retail
division continues to make payments to
the football authorities as part of an
ongoing agreement. It should be noted
that at the same time as delivering its
judgment on the interpretation of the
Database Directive in relation to
horseracing, the ECJ took a similar line
on three football related cases. We are
still in discussion with the football
authorities concerning future
arrangements for LBOs, as well as
remote channels.
In November 2005 the BHB settled a
long running dispute with Irish
bookmakers over data rights. The
settlement came during a hearing in
Dublin’s Commercial Court and allowed
the BHB to keep the £30m it had
collected from Irish bookmakers since
March 2001. However the BHB accepted
that no further payments under the
previous contract would be made after
9 January 2006. Accordingly, from that
date, William Hill has ceased to make
any payment to the BHB in respect of
horseracing betting in its LBOs in
certain jurisdictions. Previously the
Company had paid 10% of gross win
arising from betting on UK horseracing
in LBOs outside of Great Britain.
Operating costs
Full year expenses for the Group were
£418.2m an increase of 26.6% (5.5%
excluding Stanley Retail and
exceptional costs).
Excluding Stanley Retail and
exceptional costs, staff costs, which
represented roughly half of our total
costs, fell 1.2% reﬂecting the
introduction of our new stafﬁng
contract in the retail estate and
improvement in productivity as a result
of the rollout of EPOS. Property costs,
which represented 16.0% of our total
costs, were up 10.9% over the
comparable period reﬂecting increases
in rent and rates in part driven by an
increase in average shop size and an
increase in the number of shops, and
higher energy costs. Depreciation and
equipment maintenance costs
increased 21.2% with the rollout of
EPOS and text systems along with the
supporting technology, although this
was offset by staff cost savings. The cost
of providing pictures and data to our
LBOs was up 8.5% over the comparable
period due to the size of the estate and
price increases. Advertising and
marketing costs, including the cost of
casino bonus cash payments that are
expensed in arriving at gross proﬁt,
were up 19.5% over the comparable
period reﬂecting increased web
advertising and promotions, in
particular focusing on poker and WHTV.
Other cost increases relate to our
investments in WHTV and our ongoing
investment in information technology,
EPOS capabilities and core bookmaking
systems. All expenditure on information
technology is subject to rigorous cost-
beneﬁt analysis, and tightly managed
through formalised project and
programme management systems.
Exceptional costs of £26.9m were
incurred in 2005 of which £19.0m
(including £5.4m of non-cash charges)
related to the integration of Stanley
Retail within the William Hill estate,
£3.0m related to the aborted return of
capital exercise and £7.4m related to
the installation of EPOS and text
systems. A proﬁt of £2.5m was recorded
on the disposal of 12 William Hill LBOs.
Regulatory development
In April 2005 the new Gambling Act was
enacted. We are advised that it is
unlikely to be fully implemented before
Autumn 2007 pending the setting up of
the Gambling Commission.
Proposed deregulation including
extended betting shop opening hours,
the installation of higher payout
gaming machines and the removal of
the demand criteria will impact our
estate. The new Act also opens up the
possibility of a UK based remote
gaming industry and over the next two
years the Government aims to establish
both regulatory and taxation regimes to
enable this to occur. We will continue to
work with our trade associations to
assist the Gambling Commission to
develop appropriate regulation.
Capital structure
William Hill was listed on the London
Stock Exchange in June 2002 and at
that time the Group put in place a
capital structure and ﬁnancing
arrangements to provide the optimum
capital structure for William Hill as a
public company, consistent with the
Board’s strategy. Since ﬂotation, William
Hill’s strong ﬁnancial performance has
led the Board to conclude that William
Hill could support a signiﬁcantly higher
amount of debt and to do so would be
in the interest of shareholders. In March
2005 the Company announced a return
of capital to shareholders of £453m and
a £40m additional contribution to the
Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension
scheme to address the actuarial deﬁcit
in the scheme.
In light of the acquisition of Stanley
Retail, the Company decided not to
proceed with the return of capital but
secured new facilities of £1.2bn in order
to fund the acquisition, reﬁnance the
facilities put in place at ﬂotation and
make a £47m additional contribution to
the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension
scheme over a ﬁve-year period.
Subsequent to receiving clearance from
the OFT on the Stanley Retail
acquisition, the Board gave further
consideration to the appropriate
ﬁnancing arrangements for the
enlarged Group. In September 2005, the
Board announced it will target a ratio of
net debt to earnings before exceptional
items, interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA) of approximately
3.5 times to be achieved over the
medium term. The Board also
announced that consistent with this
target it expected to return £200m –
£300m within an 18 month period. By
the end of 2005, £78.3m had been
returned by means of on-market share
buy-backs.
Taxation
In its Pre-Budget Report on 5 December
2005, HM Treasury announced the
conclusions it had reached on gambling
taxation. HM Treasury concluded that current tax arrangements are generally
working well at present and that
maintaining stability in the overall
structure of taxation is desirable in a
period of transition. In these
circumstances the Government decided
to maintain the current tax regimes
which are working well for betting,
betting exchanges, lottery and bingo.
Gross proﬁt tax
HM Treasury concluded that gross proﬁt
tax has been a success and the
Government has decided not to increase
the rate of gross proﬁt tax or make any
changes to it at this time.
Betting exchanges
The Government concluded that the
fairest way to tax betting exchanges is to
tax commission earned by them. It also
concluded that taxing layers on
exchanges, purely on the basis that they
lay bets, would not be fair or
proportionate. On this basis it
concluded that the current taxation
arrangements remain appropriate.
As a result of the Government’s decision
we expect to see continued pressure on
theoretical margins and to address in
part this issue we recently started to
hedge directly into betting exchanges as
a means of improving the effectiveness
of our hedging activities. In addition, the
Starting Price Regulatory Commission
(SPRC) is undertaking an independent
review of how starting prices are formed.
The SPRC has appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers to conduct a
full review of the process and is expected
to announce its ﬁndings in the early
summer.
FOBTs
FOBTs were classiﬁed as gaming
machines for VAT purposes from 6
December 2005. From this date, income
earned from these machines is subject
to VAT rather than gross proﬁts tax. This
is in line with other types of gaming
machine.
From the 2006 Budget, AMLD will be
payable in addition to VAT and further
discussions are taking place between
the Government and the gambling
industry prior to the rate being set. 
Remote gaming
HM Treasury announced that in order to
align taxation policy with the Gambling
Act 2005, remote gaming will be
brought into the gambling duty net,
with the intention of announcing the
rate in the 2006 Budget. HM Treasury
has committed to further discussion
with the industry and other stakeholders
prior to announcing the rate.
Republic of Ireland
In December 2005 the Irish Government
announced a reduction in the tax rate
from 2% to 1% of turnover, to apply
from 1 July 2006. 
Pension plan
The Board undertook during the year to
make a special contribution of £47m to
the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. The
contribution will be spread over a
period of ﬁve years and is designed to
eliminate the deﬁcit calculated on a
continuing basis by the actuary as at
September 2004. The ﬁrst payment of
£9.4m was made in October 2005. The
Board and pension scheme Trustee have
consulted on this speciﬁc proposal and
believe it represents an appropriate
course of action that properly balances
the legitimate interests of shareholders,
members and pensioners.
Future capital structure and
dividend policy
The Board intends to maintain an
efﬁcient and ﬂexible capital structure
and will use a combination of dividend
payments and share buy-backs to
achieve this objective.
For 2006, the Board expects to maintain
dividend cover on a per share basis
broadly in line with the level in 2005. In
addition, the Board will be seeking
authority from shareholders for a
renewal of the on-market share buy-
back mandate.
David Harding
Chief Executive
7
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executive’s Review To the shareholders of William Hill PLC.
The Operating and Financial Review (OFR)
is only prepared to assist the members to
assess the Company’s strategy and the
potential for that strategy to succeed. The
statutory requirement to prepare an OFR
has been removed by the Government but
it is included in this Annual Report as the
Board considers it contains important
information for shareholders.
The OFR contains certain statements that
are or may be forward-looking. These
statements are made by the directors in
good faith based on the information
available to them up to the time of their
approval of this report. These statements
should be treated with caution as they
involve risk and uncertainty because they
relate to future events and circumstances.
There are a number of factors which might
cause actual results and performance to
differ materially from those expressed or
implied by such statements.
The OFR has been prepared with reference
to the guidance in the Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Reporting Statement:
Operating and Financial Review’ which
following the removal of the statutory
requirement for the OFR is considered best
practice and the Board has elected to
incorporate many of the recommended
disclosures contained in the new
Reporting Statement. The Board may
modify the OFR in future periods to reﬂect
developing best practice.
This OFR has been prepared for the Group
as a whole and therefore gives greater
emphasis to those matters which are
signiﬁcant to the Group taken as a whole.
Description of the business
William Hill is a leading provider of ﬁxed
odds bookmaking services, offering
odds and taking bets on a wide range of
sporting and other events, as well as
offering FOBTs and AWPs in its LBOs
and operating an online casino and
poker room.
The Group delivers its betting and
gaming products to customers through
three principal channels:
• Retail comprises a network of over
2,180 outlets throughout the UK and
Ireland including 560 LBOs retained
following the acquisition of Stanley
Retail making William Hill one of the
two largest operators of LBOs in the
UK. The scale of the network gives
William Hill a signiﬁcant competitive
advantage in terms of brand
recognition and allows central costs
to be spread across a large estate.
• Telephone betting, in which the
directors believe that William Hill is
the market leader, has the capacity to
operate approximately 700
telephone bet capture positions at
call centres in Leeds and Shefﬁeld. As
at 27 December 2005, the business
had 174,000 active accounts (28
December 2004 – 184,000).
• Interactive betting comprises an
online sportsbook including arcade
games (www. williamhill.com), an
online casino (www.
williamhillcasino.com) and online
poker site (www.
williamhillpoker.com). The Group
accepted its ﬁrst bet via the internet in
1998 and the casino was launched in
conjunction with Cryptologic Inc. at
the end of 1999. The offering was
enhanced by the introduction of
arcade games in 2002 and the launch
of a dedicated poker site in January
2003. Also in 2003, Boss Media AB was
introduced as a second supplier of
casino software, a Euro denominated
casino was launched and an
integrated sportsbook and casino
account was offered to customers. In
autumn 2004, the business launched
a television channel (WHTV) on
channel 425 on the Sky interactive
digital television platform.
Enhancements in the interactive
offering through improvements in
functionality and product
development continue to be made
and in 2005 we increased our range of
in-running opportunities, enhanced
our single account proposition,
launched additional arcade games
and upgraded our poker product. As
at 27 December 2005, the business
had 341,000 active accounts (28
December 2004 - 292,000).
• The Group also operates two
greyhound stadia situated in the
North East.
Operating environment
Historically, the Group’s business has
proven to be less exposed to the
economic cycle than many other
consumer facing industries. Economic
conditions in the UK showed signs of
weakening in 2005, which may have
adversely impacted the Group’s ﬁnancial
performance, although the impact
cannot be quantiﬁed.
The business is deﬁned and constrained
by legislation. Recent legislation
comprises the Gambling Act enacted in
April 2005 although this is unlikely to be
fully implemented before autumn 2007
pending the setting up of the Gambling
Commission.
Each customer must take responsibility
for complying with local laws in respect
of betting and gaming that differ across
jurisdictions. The Group’s businesses are
properly licensed in the UK to accept
sports and other bets and in the
Netherlands Antilles to operate online
casino and poker sites. The directors
periodically obtain independent legal
advice concerning the state of betting
and gaming laws in particular
jurisdictions.
Operating and Financial Review
8
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review
9
The Group closely monitors the
development of tax policy by the
Government in relation to betting and
gaming. It seeks to lobby Government
to ensure a fair and equitable approach
to the taxation of different forms of
gambling and various platforms, and to
minimise the likelihood that the regime
for gross proﬁt tax might be changed to
the detriment of the Group.
The Group in conjunction with other
bookmakers continues to make a
variety of statutory, voluntary and
commercial payments to various
sporting bodies. In addition, the Group
makes commercial payments through
Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound
Services Limited (BAGS) for the right to
screen pictures from various horse and
greyhound racetracks in LBOs. As
explained in the Chief Executive’s
Review, the Group does not expect any
signiﬁcant increase in the cost of such
arrangements in the foreseeable future.
Strategy
The Group continues to pursue a
strategy aimed at delivering sustainable
earnings growth and value for
shareholders. The key elements of the
strategy are to:
• Continue to enhance traditional
earnings and maximise organic
growth opportunities;
• Proﬁtably exploit new platforms;
• Capitalise on opportunities from
regulatory, ﬁscal and technological
change; and
• Selectively pursue value-enhancing
acquisitions.
The Board monitors performance
against the strategy by:
• Establishing an annual plan
incorporating strategic objectives
and monitoring results against that
plan;
• Monitoring performance against key
competitors;
• Evaluating new business
development opportunities against
stringent ﬁnancial criteria and
alternative uses of capital;
• Playing an active role in regulatory
and ﬁscal matters which could
inﬂuence the business; and
• Identifying and implementing
technological change which is
expected to beneﬁt the business.
Competition
The Group faces competition primarily
from other bookmakers, betting
exchanges, other interactive operators
and, to some extent, the National
Lottery. The directors do not believe
that the Group currently faces
signiﬁcant competition from other
participants in the gaming industry,
namely casinos, bingo halls and football
pools although competition may
increase as betting and gaming
products converge, the new Gambling
Act comes into force, and as a result of
technological developments.
The Group’s principal competitors in the
UK retail market are Ladbrokes and
Coral, with William Hill and Ladbrokes
having the largest LBO estates.
Ladbrokes, Coral and the Tote are the
Group’s chief competitors in the UK
telephone betting market. In addition, a
number of international telephone
operators compete with the Group from
outside the UK.
The Group faces competition in its
interactive operations from a large
number of UK-owned operators,
including Ladbrokes, Coral and various
betting exchanges, and operators
based overseas that have entered, and
continue to enter, the interactive
market. Relatively few of these
competitors have a recognisable or
long-established brand name in the UK.
The Group competes overseas with
online and off-line competitors that
may have more brand recognition than
William Hill in certain markets.
Betting exchanges enable person-to-
person betting with one person acting
as layer (the role of the traditional
bookmaker) and the other as punter.
The exchange charges a commission on
the winner’s proﬁt and gross proﬁt tax is
levied at 15% on all commission and
levy, if appropriate, is charged at 10%
on UK horseracing commission. The
layers and punters are not liable to
these charges. William Hill lobbied
strongly against the unfair advantage
enjoyed by layers on betting
exchanges, who compete directly with
traditional bookmakers without paying
a comparable level of gross proﬁt tax or
horseracing levy. This inequitable
taxation of layers on betting exchanges
enables them to offer better prices than
the traditional bookmaker. The UK
Government concluded in December
2005 that current taxation
arrangements remain appropriate.
The main impact of this competitive
advantage manifests itself in starting
prices, at which most off-course bets
are placed, and theoretical horseracing
margins, which have been falling in
recent years, as on-course bookmakers
have been able to hedge their liabilities
on betting exchanges and reduce the
margins at which they bet. William Hill
recently started to switch hedging
activity from the on-course market to
betting exchanges in an attempt to
reverse the fall in margins.
The National Lottery offers a number of
gambling products, the most important
of which is the twice weekly draw. Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators (KPIs)
used by the Board in monitoring
earnings per share growth are as
follows: 
• Gross win (represents total customer
stakes less customer winnings);
• Gross proﬁt (represents gross win
less cost of sales);
• Operating expenses;
• Interest charges and cover; and
• Effective tax rate.
The Board also utilises a range of
measures designed to determine
performance at a channel and product
level, the more important of which are:
• Gross win percentage by channel;
• Operating margin by channel and by
product;
• Average proﬁt per LBO;
• Average proﬁt per active
Telephone/Interactive customer
where proﬁt is operating proﬁt as
shown in Note 2 to the ﬁnancial
statements and an active customer is
deﬁned as one who has placed a bet
with their own money in the last 
12 months; and
• Return on incremental capital
invested (for example, in relation to
investment in the retail estate, the
Group seeks returns on capital
invested of 20% on new licences,
15% on resites and extensions and
10% on refurbishments).
To assess the capital structure, the Board
focuses on the ratio of net debt to
earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)
which is managed to ensure an efﬁcient
balance sheet and is a key driver of
overall distribution policy.
In addition to these ﬁnancial indicators a
number of non-ﬁnancial indicators are
also used including numbers of betting
slips processed and the number of
active customers in the remote
channels. 
Targets for certain KPIs are set on an
annual basis as part of the Group’s
operational objectives for the coming
year having regard to historic levels,
expected new developments and the
Group’s strategy.
A comparison of KPIs in the 2004 and
2005 ﬁnancial years is shown below.
10
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review
2005 2004
Growth in gross win (1) 2.1% 10.4%
Growth in gross proﬁt (1) 2.5% 9.8%
Growth in operating expenses (1) 5.5% 5.4%
Net interest expense £41.0m £26.7m
Interest cover 6.9 10.0
Effective taxation rate
(excluding exceptional items) 31.1% 27.8%
Gross win percentage by channel (1,2)
OTC 15.8% 16.2%
Telephone 8.8% 11.2%
Interactive sportsbook and arcade 7.3% 7.9%
Operating margin by channel
Retail 30.0% 30.2%
Telephone 24.3% 36.7%
Interactive 49.6% 48.8%
Average proﬁt per LBO (1) £103,000 £104,000
Average proﬁt per active Interactive customer £179 £177
Average proﬁt per active Telephone customer £75 £120
Net debt/EBITDA 3.4 1.7
(1) Excludes Stanley Retail.
(2) Gross win percentage by product is monitored internally but not publicly
disclosed. William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review
11
In 2005, adjusted basic EPS was just
below that achieved in 2004. Growth in
gross win and gross proﬁt were below
internal targets and the levels achieved
in the comparative period due to
factors explained in the Chief
Executive’s review. Growth in operating
expenses was contained within tight
targets. 
Operating margins were at acceptable
levels for the Retail business and for the
Interactive business but fell below
expectations for the Telephone
business. 
With regard to ﬁnancial structure the
Board believes that the Group should
target a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5
times with any excess capital returned
to shareholders through a combination
of dividends and an ongoing on-market
share buy-back programme, to the
extent that there is no alternative use of
the funds. 
We made signiﬁcant progress in the
year in a number of elements of our
strategy as described in the Chief
Executive’s Review.
In addition, we made some progress in
developing our international business
during the course of the year. An
agreement to promote the William Hill
brand in Greece was reached with a
local partner. We continue to evaluate
potential opportunities in select
European markets.
Our policy not to accept sports bets
from customers based in the United
States remained unchanged and Asian
markets remained difﬁcult to penetrate
due to the legal environment and
restrictions on payment methods.
In the coming year we expect to:
• Maximise revenues in each channel
through speciﬁc initiatives;
• Manage the cost base to ensure
efﬁcient use of resources;
• Complete the integration of Stanley
Retail;
• Continue to invest in the LBO estate
through our ongoing development
programme; and
• Make signiﬁcant progress on key
technology programmes.
Current and future
development and
performance
A summary of the key ﬁnancial results is
set out in the table below and discussed
in this section. 
Growth in gross win has been achieved
through the acquisition of Stanley Retail
and growth in the existing Retail and
Interactive businesses offset by a
reduction in gross win in the Telephone
business. Details of performance are
described in more detail in the Chief
Executive’s Review. In the Retail
business, key trends include a reduction
in income from OTC and AWP business
being more than offset by increased
income from FOBTs. The decline in OTC
business was due to adverse sporting
results and margin pressures . FOBTs
beneﬁted from improved densities and
greater popularity (at the expense of
AWPs and OTC business levels). Income
in the Telephone sportsbook was
similarly affected by unfavourable
sporting results and lower margins.
Interactive gross win grew in all areas
with poker gross win increasing by 90%.
GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other
costs of sale (excluding pay-outs to
customers) increased 9.8% to £176.5m
(William Hill excluding Stanley Retail
increased 0.5% to £161.5m) and
includes gross proﬁt tax, levies paid to
the horse and greyhound racing
industries, VAT and licence fees incurred
in respect of AWPs and more recently
FOBTs, and various royalty payments to
suppliers of FOBTs and certain services
in respect of the online casino and
poker sites.
The total amount of gross proﬁt tax
paid has increased by 7.6% (William Hill
excluding Stanley Retail increased by
0.1%) due to the increase in gross win
from betting activity including that
generated from FOBTs. Levies have
increased by 7.8% (William Hill
excluding Stanley Retail decreased
3.2%) due to an increase in the
voluntary levy paid to the greyhound
industry net of a small decrease in
payments under the statutory
horseracing levy due to a reduction in
gross win from UK horseracing.
Royalties paid to various suppliers of
FOBTs have increased due to the roll out
of additional terminals although the
percentage of gross win paid as royalty
has fallen in the period. Similarly,
royalties paid to Crypotologic and Boss
Media, suppliers of casino and poker
software, have increased in absolute
terms due to the continuing success of
these products. Changes in FOBT
Key ﬁnancials
Gross Win Operating Proﬁt
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004
Retail – WH 552.7 548.1 166.0 165.5
– Stanley 70.7 – 15.6 –
Retail – total 623.4 548.1 181.6 165.5
Telephone 53.4 60.3 13.0 22.1
Interactive 123.3 106.1 61.2 51.7
Other 7.6 7.6 (0.1) (0.3)
Overheads – – (13.3) (8.0)
807.7 722.1 242.4 231.0 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review
taxation, explained in the Chief
Executive’s Review, and the full-year
beneﬁt of changes in FOBT supplier
terms will affect these costs in 2006. 
Gross proﬁt, representing gross win less
GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs
of sales, amounted to £631.2m, an
increase of 12.4% (William Hill excluding
Stanley Retail increased 2.5%) over the
comparable period.
Net operating expenses, excluding
exceptional items increased to £388.8m,
an increase of 17.6% over the
comparable period (William Hill
excluding Stanley Retail increased 5.5%).
Associate income represents the Group’s
share of proﬁts of its associate company,
Satellite Information Services.
Net interest payable increased to
£39.9m, an increase of 58.3% against the
comparable period due to the change in
ﬁnancing arrangements arising from the
acquisition of Stanley Retail.
Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities
relates primarily to the current year and
as the Group earns its proﬁts in the UK is
calculated at 30% of taxable proﬁts
being the current rate of UK corporation
tax. The Group’s effective rate of tax
(before exceptional items) was 31.1%, as
compared to 27.8% in 2004. The rate in
2004 was lower due to the availability of
tax losses in that year. 
Basic adjusted earnings per share were
36.2 pence, a 0.8% decrease against the
comparable period.
The Group generated net cash inﬂow
from operating activities of £242.0m, a
decrease of 2.1% against the
comparable period. The Group paid
£33.4m in net debt service costs, £49.4m
in corporation tax, invested a net
£53.8m in capital expenditure, spent a
net £466.1m on acquisitions, paid
£66.6m in dividends, spent £76.8m
purchasing its own shares and repaid a
loan facility in the amount of £500m.
The Group drew down £1,020m under
its new loan facilities. Net indebtedness
increased to £939.5m at 27 December
2005 (28 December 2004 – £437.0m).
The Group continues to invest in
developing each of its businesses so as
to underpin its future growth prospects.
It plans to continue to invest circa £40m
per annum in the retail estate including
Stanley Retail which will beneﬁt from a
targeted spend of £26m over the next
three years. The investment programme
to upgrade EPOS equipment and text
systems in Stanley Retail will be
completed by March 2006 at a further
cost of £5.6m. The Group has also
earmarked £19m for investment in 2006
and 2007 in new and improved
technology platforms and core
bookmaking systems that will ultimately
beneﬁt all three channels. The directors
also consider opportunities to acquire
additional good quality LBOs. All
investment and acquisition proposals
are evaluated against strict criteria that
focus on return on capital and pay-back
period.
Resources
The Group seeks to exploit a number of
assets and resources that are not
necessarily reﬂected in its ﬁnancial
statements including:
• A market leading position in all major
betting channels in the UK with an
established international presence;
• A long-established and widely
recognised brand, with a strong
reputation for quality;
• An extensive and high quality estate
of betting shops which beneﬁt from
signiﬁcant sustained investment and
ongoing refurbishment and
improvements;
• An effective risk management system
and signiﬁcant bookmaking
experience;
• A focus on sustainable and proﬁtable
growth and tight management of
costs;
• Strong cash ﬂow generation;
• A track record of innovation and
proﬁtably exploiting regulatory, ﬁscal
and technological change; and
• A strong management team and
workforce of over 13,000 trained
employees.
The directors believe that such
resources help to secure the Group’s
position at the forefront of the betting
and gaming industry and ensure it is
well placed to compete and develop its
business in the future.
Risk and uncertainties
The directors are seeking to build an
increasingly proﬁtable business by
exploiting the above-mentioned
strengths and, at the same time,
carefully managing the risks to the
operation. Such risks include: the
potential impact of legislative changes
in the UK and overseas on the Group’s
scope and conduct of operations and
ability to accept bets; the potential
impact of changes to the UK ﬁscal
environment; the ability of the Group to
manage its bookmaking risk; the
relationship with key suppliers, most
notably the horse and greyhound
industries; the payment of levies and
fees to certain sporting bodies under
various arrangements; the potential
threat represented by competitors
based in the UK and overseas; the risk
that key technology or information
systems could fail; the impact of weather
or other factors on the sporting
programme; the loss of key personnel;
the risk of a prolonged economic
recession or other geo-political events
that may result in a reduction of betting
activity; the risk that intermediaries such
as banks refuse to accept credit and
debit card transactions connected with
gambling; and the risk resulting from
any inability of the Group to service its
debt obligations.
The Board routinely monitors all the
above risks and appropriate actions are
12 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review
13
taken to mitigate the risks or their
potential adverse consequences. The
Chief Executive’s Review further
expands on certain issues that fall into
the above description of risk factors.
Relationships
The Group has relationships with various
organisations as part of its day-to-day
management of the Group’s operations.
Our customers and employees are key
to our success and our Corporate
Responsibility (CR) Statement on
pages 34 to 39 provides further
information on our policies and
practices in these areas, as well as details
of other key CR issues for the Group.
The Group also has a number of key
suppliers who provide products and
services to the Group. Two of our most
signiﬁcant relationships in the Retail
business are with Leisure Link, the sole
supplier of FOBTs to our LBOs in Great
Britain, and Alphameric, who supply and
maintain the Group’s EPOS systems. SIS,
in which the Group has a shareholding,
is the main provider of pictures and data
into our LBOs. The Group also has
arrangements with the various horse
and greyhound tracks via BAGS for the
right to screen pictures.
Our two online casino providers
Cryptologic and Boss Media are
important suppliers to the Interactive
business.
William Hill operates in a regulated
environment where the potential risks
indentiﬁed on page 12 include adverse
changes to the regulatory and tax
regimes. The Group both on its own and
via trade associations maintains an
ongoing dialogue with the DCMS and
HM Treasury and participates in regular
liaison meetings with the recently
established Gambling Commission to
assist with their understanding of the
bookmaking industry. We have
provided, and will continue to provide,
feedback on various consultation
documents issued by the Commission.
The Government and the Commission
have identiﬁed responsible gambling as
a key area of focus and we have a
regular dialogue with DCMS, the
Gambling Commission, GamCare, the
Reponsibility in Gambling Trust and
trade associations in this area. We also,
via relevant trade associations, have
arrangements for alerting sports
regulatory bodies to potential sports
integrity issues. 
The Group is a major contributor to the
horse and greyhound racing industries
via the statutory levy and voluntary levy
respectively.
Our bankers are important providers of
funding and ﬁnancing products as well
as providing daily banking facilities
through our distribution channels.
Returns to shareholders
The Company paid an interim dividend
of 6.1 pence per share and the directors
have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 12.2
pence per share that would bring total
dividends to 18.3 pence per share, an
11% increase over the amount paid in
respect of the comparable period. The
proposed level of total dividend
corresponds to a dividend cover ratio of
2.0 times (28 December 2004 – 2.2
times). The Company normally aims to
pay interim and ﬁnal dividends that
represent about one third and two
thirds, respectively, of total dividends.
The Company obtained authority from
shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting held in May 2005 to buy-back
up to 10% of the issued share capital.
The Company bought back 3.6% of its
share capital by the end of 2005 all of
which was cancelled. The aggregate cost
(after expenses and stamp duty) of the
acquired 3.6% of issued share capital
was £78.7m.
From June 2002, the date of its initial
public offering to the end of 2005, the
Company bought back a total of 9.9% of
its issued share capital (inclusive of
shares bought back into treasury)
returning £223m to shareholders and
paid dividends totalling a further
£223m.
Approximately 2.7% of the issued share
capital at the end of 2005 is retained in
treasury shares to meet future awards
under the Group’s various incentive and
share remuneration schemes. 
Financial structure and
liquidity
At ﬂotation in June 2002, the Company
arranged bank facilities amounting to
£660m comprising a ﬁve-year
amortising term loan of £210m and a
revolving credit facility of £450m
available until 28 May 2007 (the ‘old
facilities’). The old facilities were
denominated in sterling as the Group’s
operations are largely based in the UK.
As a result of mandatory repayments in
respect of the term loan, the available
facilities had fallen to £620m as at 28
December 2004, and further reduced to
£570m on 31 December 2004 as a result
of a further mandatory repayment.
The Group’s acquisition of Stanley Retail
during the year required funding and
gave the Board the opportunity to give
further consideration to the appropriate
ﬁnancing arrangements for the enlarged
Group to achieve an efﬁcient capital
structure.
Accordingly, the Group secured new
facilities of £1.2bn with a consortium of
banks (the ‘new facilities’). £600m of the
new facilities have been structured as a
ﬁve-year revolving credit facility and
£600m as a ﬁve-year term loan. These
facilities were used to fund the
acquisition and to repay the old facilities
in June 2005. 
The directors believe that the new
facilities are sufﬁcient to meet the
projected working capital needs of the
Group.
The Company has hedged its exposure
to interest rates on its ﬂoating rate debt
by entering into a series of interest rate
swaps and collars. Approximately one
third of its forecast exposure is ﬁxed via
interest rate swaps reducing to one
quarter by the end of 2009. A further
one third is subject to interest rate collar
arrangements until 2009. 
The remaining exposure is at ﬂoating
rates. The Board will continue to review
periodically the borrowing and hedging
arrangements to ensure that they
remain appropriate to the needs of the
Group and take account of changes in
market conditions and business plans. 
The Board will target a ratio of net debt
to EBITDA of approximately 3.5 times to
be achieved over the medium term. In
September 2005 the Board announced
that on the basis of this target it
expected to return via on-market buy-
backs £200m – £300m to shareholders
within an 18 month period. By the end
of 2005 £78.3m had been returned.
Going forward, the Board anticipates
maintaining an efﬁcient capital structure
through a combination of dividends and
ongoing share buy-backs. Adoption of IFRS
The Group is well advanced in its plans
to adopt International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The Group has prepared its ﬁnancial
statements for the 52 week period
ended 27 December 2005 in accordance
with UK generally accepted accounting
principles (UK GAAP) although
supplementary information prepared in
accordance with IFRS is shown on pages
83 to 94. The Group will adopt IFRS as
the primary basis for reporting for the
52 week period ending 26 December
2006.
The Group does not expect the
adoption of IFRS to have a material
impact on the reported ﬁnancial
performance as compared to results
prepared in accordance with UK GAAP .
Furthermore, it expects no adverse
impact on its tax affairs or banking
arrangements resulting from the
transition to reporting in accordance
with IFRS.
14
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 15
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Charles Scott
Non Executive Chairman
David Harding
Chief Executive
Tom Singer
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Barry Gibson
Senior Independent Non Executive Director
David Allvey
Independent non executive director
David Edmonds
Independent non executive director William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Board of Directors
16
Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus
Deringer
(Legal Advisers)
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
(Auditors)
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Brunswick Group Ltd
(Financial Public
Relations)
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields
London WC2A 3ED
Citigroup
(Financial Advisers
and Corporate
Stockbrokers)
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Capita IRG
(Registrars)
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Professional Advisers
Charles Scott 
Non Executive Chairman
Responsibilities: 
Chairman of the Board with responsibility
for best practice corporate governance.
Board Committees:
Nomination Committee (Chairman)
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Current directorships:
InTechnology PLC (Non executive director)
Emcore Corporation (Non executive
director)
Former roles:
Chairman, Saatchi & Saatchi PLC
Chairman, Cordiant Communications
Group PLC
Chairman, Robert Walters PLC
Non executive director, adidas-Salomon
AG
Senior Independent Non Executive
Director, TBI PLC 
Qualiﬁcations: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 57
Y ear of appointment: 2002
David Harding
Chief Executive
Responsibilities: 
Responsibility for the Group’s overall
strategic direction and the day-to-day
management and proﬁtability of the
Group’s operations. 
Board committees:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Former roles: 
Deputy Chief Executive, Scottish Amicable
Managing Director, Prudential Life and
Pensions
Managing Director, Charles Schwab Europe
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, ShareLink
Operations Director, Mercury Personal
Communications
Senior Consultant, PA Consulting Group
Qualiﬁcations: 
MBA Warwick University
Age: 50
Y ear of appointment: 2002
Tom Singer
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Responsibilities: 
Retail, Telephone and Interactive
Operations, Information Technology,
Finance, Strategic Planning, Investor
Relations, Security and Internal Audit.
Former roles: 
Group Finance Director, William Hill PLC
Finance Director, Moss Bros Group PLC
Management Consultant, McKinsey & Co
Qualiﬁcations: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 42
Y ear of appointment: 2002
David Allvey 
Independent non executive
director
Board Committees:
Audit and Risk Management Committee
(Chairman)
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships:
Resolution Group PLC (Non executive
director)
Costain Group PLC (Non executive director)
Intertek Group PLC (Non executive
director)
Mytravel Group PLC (Non executive
director)
Former roles: 
Group Finance Director, BAT Industries PLC
Group Operation Ofﬁcer, Zurich Financial
Services PLC
Group Finance Director, Barclays Bank PLC
Non executive director, McKechnie Group
PLC
Member of the UK Accounting Standards
Board
Member of International Accounting
Standards Insurance Group
Chairman of the Fiscal Committee of the
100 Group of UK Finance Directors
Qualiﬁcations: 
Chartered Accountant
Age: 60
Y ear of appointment: 2002
David Edmonds, CBE, D.Litt.
Independent non executive
director
Board Committees:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
(Chairman)
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current Directorships:
Hammerson plc (Non executive director)
Wincanton plc (Non executive director)
Other Organisations:
Chairman, NHS Shared Business Services
Chairman, NHS Direct Special Health
Authority
Legal Services Commissioner
Trustee of SELECT (charity)
Trustee of the Social Market Foundation
Former roles: 
Director General of Telecommunications at
Oftel
Board Member, Ofﬁce of Communications
Managing Director, Group Central Services,
at the National Westminster Group
Chief Executive of the Housing
Corporation
Qualiﬁcations: 
BA (Hons), University of Keele
Age: 61
Y ear of appointment: 2005
J M Barry Gibson
Senior Independent Non
Executive Director
Responsibilities: 
Senior Independent Non Executive
director undertaking duties as identiﬁed in
the Combined Code (2003).
Board Committees:
Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Nomination Committee
Current Directorships: 
National Express Group Plc (Senior
Independent Non Executive Director)
Homeserve PLC (Non executive director)
Industry bodies:
Chairman and Trustee Retail Trust (charity)
Former roles: 
Group Chief Executive, Littlewoods Plc
Group Retail Director, BAA Plc
Non executive director, Limelight Plc 
Non executive director, Somerﬁeld PLC
Age:54
Y ear of appointment: 2002 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Report
17
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group
during the period continue to be the
operation of licensed betting ofﬁces and
the provision of telephone and internet
betting and online casino and poker
services. The subsidiary and associated
undertakings principally affecting the
proﬁts or net assets of the Group are
listed in note 17 to the ﬁnancial
statements.
Business review
Full details of the Group’s activities and a
report on its business, strategy and likely
future developments are contained in
the Chief Executive’s Review and the
Operating and Financial Review on
pages 4 to 14.
Results and dividends
The Group’s proﬁt on ordinary activities
after taxation and exceptional items was
£111.4m (52 weeks ended 28 December
2004 – £149.8m). The directors
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 12.2
pence per share to be paid on 6 June
2006 to ordinary shareholders on the
Register of Members on 5 May 2006
which, together with the interim
dividend of 6.1 pence per share paid on
5 December 2005, makes a total of 18.3
pence per share for the period (52 weeks
ended 28 December 2004 –16.5 pence
per share).
Directors
The directors who served during the
period and up to 2 March 2006
comprise:
Charles Scott Non Executive Chairman 
David Harding Chief Executive 
Thomas Singer Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Barry Gibson Senior Independent Non
Executive Director 
David Allvey Independent non 
executive director
David Edmonds Independent non
executive director
It is intended that Simon Lane will be
appointed Group Finance Director with
effect from 20 March 2006.
Details of committee membership is set
out on page 16.
Details of the directors’interests are set
out in note 10 to the ﬁnancial
statements.
Directors proposed for re-
election
Messrs. Harding and Gibson retire by
rotation at the next Annual General
Meeting and offer themselves for re-
election.
Mr Lane, who is expected to be
appointed by the Board on 20 March
2006, will retire and offer himself for
election.
Please refer to page 16 for biographies
of the current directors. A biography of
Mr Lane will be provided in the Notice of
AGM.
Supplier payments policy
The Group does not have a formal code
on payment practice but it is the Group’s
policy to settle terms of payment with
suppliers when agreeing the terms of
each transaction, ensure that suppliers
are made aware of the terms of payment
and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 27
December 2005 were equivalent to
19 days’ purchases (28 December 2004 –
20 days’ purchases), based on the
average daily amount invoiced by
suppliers during the period.
Charitable contributions
During the period the Group made
charitable donations of £351,000 (52
weeks ended 28 December 2004 –
£211,000) principally to industry-related
charities serving the communities in
which the Group operates.
Substantial shareholdings
On 2 March 2006, the Company had
been notiﬁed, in accordance with
sections 198 to 208 of the Companies
Act 1985, of the interests in the ordinary
share capital of the Company set out in
the table on page 18.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by
disabled persons are always fully and
fairly considered, bearing in mind the
aptitude and ability of the applicant
concerned. In the event of members of
staff becoming disabled every effort is
made to ensure that their employment
within the Group continues and that
appropriate training is arranged. It
continues to be the policy of the Group
that the training, career development
and promotion of disabled persons
should as far as is feasible be identical to
that of other employees.
Directors’ Report William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Report
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value on
the involvement of its employees and
has continued to keep them informed
on matters affecting them as employees
and on the various factors affecting the
performance of the Group. This is
achieved through formal and informal
meetings, and “INFORM” , the Group
magazine recently relaunched as
“Will2Win” . Employee representatives are
consulted regularly on a wide range of
matters affecting their current and
future interests. 
The Company operates a SAYE Share
Option Scheme (Scheme) which is open
to all eligible employees based on a
three, ﬁve or seven year monthly savings
contract. Options under the Scheme are
granted with an exercise price up to
20% below the prevailing share price.
The maximum permissible monthly
savings under the Scheme is £250.
Authority to purchase own
shares
At the Annual General Meeting in 2005,
shareholders authorised the Company
to make market purchases of its own
shares. During the year the Company
purchased and subsequently cancelled
14,142,398 ordinary shares (equivalent
to 3.6% of the issued share capital at the
time the authority was given). These
cancelled shares had a nominal value
of £1.4m and were purchased at a cost
of £78.3m at prices between £5.12
and £6.00.
At 27 December 2005, the 10,545,278
ordinary shares held in treasury and the
31,072,120 ordinary shares cancelled
since the buy-back programme started
in June 2004 represented 2.7% and
8.0%, respectively, of the outstanding
share capital at that date.
This authority remains valid until the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
when it is intended that a resolution will
be put to shareholders to renew it.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte &
Touche LLP as the Company’s auditors
will be proposed at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary and General
Counsel
2 March 2006
Registered Ofﬁce:
Greenside House, 
50 Station Road, 
Wood Green,
London N22 7TP
Substantial shareholdings
Percentage
Name of holder Number of shares shareholding
Fidelity 49,215,694 13.02
Barclays 47,604,658 12.59
MFS Investment 38,618,221 10.02
Legal & General 13,928,542 3.30
Deutsche Bank 11,393,358 3.01
18 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report
19
Introduction
This report has been prepared in
accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations
(Regulations). The report also meets the
relevant requirements of the Listing
Rules of The Financial Services Authority
and describes how the Board has
applied the Principles of Good
Governance relating to directors’
remuneration. The Committee has also
in preparing this report considered the
guidance issued by the National
Association of Pension Funds and the
ABI. As required by the Regulations, a
resolution to approve the report will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting of the Company.
The Regulations require the auditors to
report to the Company’s shareholders
on the “auditable part” of the Directors’
Remuneration Report and to state
whether in their opinion that part of the
report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
The report has therefore been divided
into separate sections for audited and
unaudited information.
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
The Company has established a
Remuneration Committee (Committee),
which is constituted in accordance with
the recommendations of the Combined
Code. It determines and agrees with the
Board the Company’s policy and
framework for executive directors and,
with effect from 1 January 2005 the
Chairman’s remuneration, and
determines the speciﬁc remuneration
packages for each of the executive
directors and other senior management
including basic salary, other beneﬁts
and any compensation payments. 
Details of the membership of the
Remuneration Committee, together
with the year in which membership
commenced and details of changes
made to the composition of the
Committee, are set out above. With
effect from 1 January 2005, all members
of the Committee have been
independent non executive directors. 
No director plays a part in any discussion
about his own remuneration.
In determining the directors’
remuneration, the Committee
appointed Towers Perrin to provide
advice on structuring remuneration
packages for the executive directors and
senior management. The Committee
also consulted Mr Harding (Chief
Executive) and Mr Russell (Group
Director, Human Resources) about its
proposals relating to individuals other
than themselves. Towers Perrin did not
provide any other services to the Group.
Advice was also received from the
Group’s lawyers, Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus
Deringer and the Company Secretary in
relation to the legal aspects of the
Performance Share Plan.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been
designed to ensure that the Group has
the ability to attract and retain senior
managers of a high calibre, align the
interests of the senior management with
that of the shareholders and be
compliant with best practice. The
performance measurement of the key
members of senior management and
the determination of their annual
remuneration packages are undertaken
by the Committee. The remuneration of
the non executive directors is
determined by the Board within limits
set out in the Articles of Association.
This report sets out the Company’s
policy on senior management
remuneration for 2006 and, so far as
practicable, for subsequent years. This
policy will continue unless changed by
the Committee, and any changes in
policy for years after 2006 will be
described in future Directors’
Remuneration Reports, which will
continue to be subject to shareholder
approval. The Committee considers that
a successful remuneration policy needs
to be sufﬁciently ﬂexible to take account
of future changes in the Group’s
business environment and in
remuneration practice.
There are four main elements of the
remuneration package for senior
management:
• Basic annual salary and beneﬁts;
• Bonus payments;
• Long-term incentives; and
• Pension arrangements.
The Group’s policy is to position the
basic salaries of the senior management
at the median of the relevant
competitive market, with a substantial
proportion of their remuneration being
performance related. As described
below, senior management may earn
annual incentive payments of up to 75%
of their basic salary together with the
beneﬁts of participation in share
schemes. 
Executive directors are required to
obtain the Board’s prior written consent
to accept external appointments. They
currently hold no such positions.
Basic annual salary and beneﬁts
The salaries of senior management are
reviewed on 1 March each year.
Individual pay levels, within the
competitive market, are determined by
reference to performance, experience
and potential. For the basis of
comparison the benchmark used is
primarily the companies within the
Towers Perrin top executive survey, with
the relevant data adjusted by reference
to speciﬁc competitor groups and cross-
checked against a sample of companies
of comparable size within the FTSE 100
and FTSE 250. The Group believes that
this is the most appropriate comparator
group for these purposes. 
The basic salaries of Messrs. Harding and
Singer were reviewed in March 2005. Mr
Harding’s salary was increased by 10% to
£440,000 and Mr Singer had his salary
increased by 10% to £260,000. Mr
Singer’s salary was further increased to
£330,000 on his appointment to the
new role of Chief Operating Ofﬁcer in
June 2005. These salaries remained in
effect at the year end. The basic salaries
of other senior management were
reviewed and increased by between 4%
and 22% in March 2005. In setting salary
levels the Committee is sensitive to pay
and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The general level of increase for the vast
majority of other employees was 3%,
with a limited number of employees
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Director Year of appointment Appointments/retirements
Barry Gibson, Chairman 2002
David Allvey 2003
David Edmonds 2005 Appointed 1 January 2005
Charles Scott 2003 Retired on 1 January 2005 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report
receiving rises above this level (where
performance merited it) up to a
maximum increase of 14%.
With effect from 1 March 2006, the basic
salaries of Messrs. Harding and Singer
were increased by 13.6% and 4.5% to
£500,000 and £345,000 respectively.
Simon Lane, who is due to join the
Group on 20 March 2006, as Group
Finance Director, will be paid a salary
of £250,000.
In addition to basic salary, senior
management receive other competitive
beneﬁts, such as a fully expensed car or
car allowance, private health cover and
permanent health insurance. It is
intended to continue to provide these
beneﬁts but retain the ﬂexibility to
provide a cash alternative for any or all
of these according to individual
circumstances.
Bonus payments
Executives are eligible to participate in a
senior management bonus scheme that
is reviewed by the Committee on an
annual basis to determine the most
appropriate performance measure for
that year. For 2005, this comprised the
Group’s ﬁnancial performance as
measured by proﬁt on ordinary activities
before exceptional items, ﬁnance
charges and taxation and provided for a
target payment of 30% of basic salary
and a maximum payment of 75% of
salary, two-thirds of which is payable in
cash with the remaining third paid in
shares but held on behalf of the
executive until the third anniversary of
the cash bonus payment. For 2005, the
ﬁnancial targets were not met and no
bonus payments were made. 
The same performance measures and
cash/share split will apply in 2006, but
having reviewed the overall market
conditions and comparator groups the
Committee has decided that a target
payment of 40% of basic salary would
be more appropriate with the maximum
payment remaining at 75% of salary. 
A Deferred Bonus Scheme was approved
by shareholders in 2005 as a vehicle
through which the share element of the
executive annual bonus scheme can be
delivered.
Long term incentives
Long term incentives are provided to
drive performance, aid retention and 
align the interests of executives with
those of shareholders. The Group has
one long term incentive scheme under
which new awards are made to
incentivise management, namely the
Performance Share Plan (PSP).
In 2005, the Remuneration Committee
undertook a comprehensive review of
the Company’s long term incentive
arrangements in order to reﬂect
developments in best practice in this
area and in the light of the William Hill
Group’s objectives, in particular to
establish long term incentive
arrangements which were appropriate
to the enlarged Group following the
acquisition of the Stanley Retail estate.
As a result of this review the PSP was
introduced to replace the Long Term
Incentive Plan. The PSP is for middle and
senior management.
The PSP is administered by the
Committee and provides for conditional
awards of shares to the value of a
percentage of basic salary. For 2005
only, the Committee decided to make
awards at an enhanced level and Messrs.
Harding and Singer were awarded
shares to the value of 300% of salary,
with other senior and middle
management receiving awards of
between 100% and 200% of salary (the
2005 Awards). Under the PSP there are
two performance conditions, relating to:
• The Group’s real (i.e. over and above
inﬂation) earnings per share (Real
EPS) growth (which is calculated
excluding exceptional and
extraordinary items and amortisation
of goodwill); and 
• Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance. 
The vesting of one half of the 2005
Awards (the EPS Tranche) will depend on
the Company’s growth in Real EPS,
measured in terms of the compound
annual growth in Real EPS achieved over
the three ﬁnancial years 2005 to 2007 by
comparison with EPS for 2004. No shares
will vest if Real EPS growth is below 4%
per annum, for 4% per annum growth
10% will vest, and for above 12% growth
per annum, this half of the 2005 Awards
will vest in full. The vesting of the
remaining half of the 2005 Awards (the
TSR Tranche) will depend on the
Company’s TSR relative to the
companies ranked 31-100 in the FTSE
100 index on 1 January 2005. No shares 
will vest if the TSR ranking is below the
50th percentile, 25% will vest at the 50th
percentile and at or above the 90th
percentile, this half of the 2005 Awards
will vest in full. In addition no part of the
TSR tranche will vest if Real EPS of at
least 3% per annum is not achieved. 
In order for the 2005 Awards to Messrs.
Harding and Singer to vest they or their
dependents must hold shares (including
any vested rights to acquire shares
without payment under any other
employee share scheme) equal to the
maximum number of shares under the
2005 Awards until 20 June 2008 (that is,
the vesting date of the 2005 Awards). If
this requirement is not met, the 2005
Awards shall lapse pro-rata to the
shortfall in the shareholding.
For 2006 the Committee intends to
award Messrs. Harding and Singer
shares to the value of 200% of salary
along with Simon Lane, the new Group
Finance Director, who joins the
Company on 20 March 2006, with other
senior and middle management
receiving awards of between 50%
and 100% of salary.
Following a review of the PSP scheme
for 2006 and advice received from
Towers Perrin, the Committee intends to
maintain the same performance criteria
for the TSR tranche as provided in the
2005 PSP . For the EPS tranche, it is
intended that the percentage vesting at
4% per annum growth is increased from
10% to 25%, with vesting in full for
above 12% per annum growth. This
ensures that vesting for the EPS tranche
is rewarded at an equivalent level to the
TSR tranche. In all other respects the PSP
rules provide for the performance
targets to be consistent with the
conditions for 2005.
It is planned that awards will be made
under the PSP annually, subject to
objective conditions, provided this is
justiﬁed by corporate and individual
performance. The Committee continues
to believe that a three-year performance
period is appropriate and in line with
market practice and that the level of
awards is competitive. The Committee
may adopt different performance
conditions for future awards which it
considers to be no less demanding
having regard to the ﬁnancial
circumstances of the Group at the time.
20 21
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report
There are three other share schemes in
existence:
a) The Long Term Incentive Plan ( LTIP)
was in place for middle and senior
management and was replaced by
the PSP in 2005. The LTIP provided for
conditional awards of shares to a
value of up to 50% of salary (the
basic award) for middle and senior
management and up to a further
50% (the matching award) for senior
management. The matching award
was on a ratio of not more than one
to one and accordingly the
maximum value of shares that were
awarded in any ﬁnancial year was
100% of salary. Release of the shares
is dependent upon the Company’s
TSR performance over a three-year
period measured against the
performance of companies
comprising the FTSE250 (excluding
investment companies) over the
same period and the continued
employment of the individual at the
date of vesting. Shares vest in
proportion to the Company’s TSR
performance. No shares vest if the
Company’s performance is below
median, 20% of shares vest for
median TSR performance and full
vesting requires TSR performance to
be in the top decile compared to the
comparator group. The ﬁrst award
under the LTIP , structured as a nil-
cost option, was granted in March
2003 in which Messrs. Harding and
Singer did not participate. An award
was made in March 2004, in which
Messrs. Harding and Singer
participated. The scheme was
replaced in 2005 by the PSP . For the
2003 award, the Company’s TSR
performance against the comparator
group placed it in the second from
top decile and as a result 92% of the
shares in the basic award and 66% of
the shares in the matching award
have vested. 
b) The Executive Director Incentive Plan
(EDIP) was established to reward
Messrs. Harding and Singer in the
event of admission of the Company’s
shares to the London Stock Exchange
and will not be repeated. Under the
scheme each is entitled to an award
of shares, structured as a nil cost
option, which vested in three annual
tranches (30%, 30% and 40%),
starting from the date of the ﬁrst
anniversary of admission (20 June
2002), subject to the Company’s TSR
performance against companies in
the FTSE250 (excluding investment
companies) over the period from the
date of admission to the date
immediately preceding each relevant
tranche vesting date. If top quartile
TSR performance was achieved, all
the shares in that tranche would vest.
If median TSR performance was
achieved, half the shares would vest,
and if performance is between the
median and upper quartiles,
between half and the full amount
would vest, on a straight-line basis.
No shares would vest for below
median performance. The three
performance periods have been
completed. The Company’s TSR
performance to June 2005 was again
in the top decile and the full 40% of
the shares in the ﬁnal tranche has
vested. 
c) The Company also operates SAYE
Share Option Schemes for eligible
employees under which options are
granted with an exercise price up to
20% below the prevailing share price.
Senior management are eligible to
participate.
The Committee considers EPS and TSR
to be the most appropriate metrics for
the Group’s long term incentives. The
TSR performance measure is dependent
on the Company’s relative long term
share price performance and, therefore,
compares the Company’s performance
to the market. This is balanced by a key
internal measure, EPS growth, which is
critical to the Group’s long term success
and ties in with the Group’s strategic
goals. 
No signiﬁcant amendments are
proposed to be made to the terms and
conditions of any entitlement of a
director to share options.
Pension arrangements
Market competitive retirement beneﬁts
are provided to act as a retention
mechanism and to recognise long
service. Current executive directors are
members of the “Retirement Plan”
section of the William Hill Pension
Scheme. This provides deﬁned beneﬁts
based on ﬁnal pensionable pay and
length of service. Beneﬁts accrue at a
rate of 1/30th of pensionable salary, up
to the Earnings Cap, for each year of
pensionable service. Their dependants
are eligible for dependants’ pensions
and the payment of a lump sum,
equivalent to four times salary, in the
event of death in service. Pensionable
pay is basic salary less the Lower
Earnings Limit and no other payments
are pensionable.
Where appropriate, member’s beneﬁts
are restricted by the Earnings Cap but
the loss of beneﬁt is compensated for by
a salary supplement of 10% of total
salary. Messrs. Harding and Singer
received 10% of salary for this loss of
beneﬁt in the period. From April 2006 a
scheme speciﬁc earnings limit will be
introduced, equivalent to the Earnings
Cap, and members’ beneﬁts will be
restricted accordingly. 
The current ﬁnal salary scheme is closed
to new entrants and has been replaced
by a money purchase scheme in respect
of new joiners, including any future
appointments of executive directors.
The employer contributions under the
money purchase scheme are 5% of
pensionable salary for employees up to
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
Historical  TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding since the date of listing in June 2002 versus
FTSE 250 (excluding investment companies) Index. Comparison based on the offer price
and 30 trading day average values
£300
£250
£200
£150
£100
£50
£0
Jun-02 Dec-04 Dec-02 Dec-05 Dec-03
FTSE 250 (excluding investment companies)
William Hill age 40 and 20% thereafter, subject to
the Earnings Cap.
The normal retirement age is 63 (ﬁnal
salary) and 65 (money purchase).
Policy regarding minimum
shareholding
It is the Board’s policy to require
executive directors and certain
members of senior management to hold
a minimum shareholding in the
Company equal to one year’s basic
salary. Whilst not contractually
enforceable the Committee expects to
exercise its discretion so as not to
extend participation in various bonus
schemes and the PSP to individuals who
fail to meet the minimum shareholding
requirement. Messrs. Harding and
Singer have already met this
requirement, as stipulated by the
Committee, and other members of
senior management are expected to do
so by the end of 2007. These timeframes
were set in the expectation that all or
part of the options and shares awarded
under the EDIP , LTIP and annual bonus
scheme will vest by these dates thereby
providing the executive with shares that
can contribute towards meeting the
minimum shareholding requirement.
As required by the Regulations, the
graph on page 21 shows the Company’s
performance, measured by TSR,
compared with that of the performance
of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment
companies) Index. The FTSE 250
(excluding investment companies) Index
has been selected for this comparison
because it is the index used by the
Company to determine payments under
most of its current long term incentive
arrangements.
The graph consists of points
representing the change in the value of a
nominal investment of £100 made on 20
June 2002 in the Company and the FTSE
250 (excluding investment companies)
Index, respectively. The change in value
of the index holding reﬂects changes in
the value of the constituent companies
over the period. The closing values at 27
December 2005 represent the value of
each nominal holding at that date and
reﬂect the change in the share price and
the value of dividend income re-invested
over the period. 
Executive directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive
directors should have contracts with an
indeﬁnite term providing for a
maximum of one year’s notice.
Consequently no executive has a
contractual notice period in excess of 12
months. 
In the event of early termination the
policy on executive directors’ contracts
provides for compensation up to a
maximum of 12 months’ basic salary,
pension contributions, other beneﬁts,
and pro-rated annual bonus. The
Committee will also consider mitigation
to reduce compensation to a departing
director where appropriate to do so.
Mr Harding is employed under a service
contract with the Company dated 28
May 2002 and is entitled under the
contract to a basic annual salary,
participation in the Company’s bonus
scheme, a company car (or cash
allowance in lieu), permanent health
insurance and private medical insurance
cover. Mr Harding is also entitled to
membership of the Company’s pension
scheme (pensionable salary limited to
the Earnings Cap) and receives an
annual payment of 10% of basic salary
to reﬂect the restriction imposed by the
Earnings Cap. Mr Harding’s contract is
for an indeﬁnite term ending
automatically on his retirement date
(age 63), but may be terminated by 12
months’ notice given by either party. The
Company may at its discretion elect to
terminate the contract by making within
ten days of the termination of
employment a payment in lieu of notice
equal to:
• The salary Mr Harding would have
received during the notice period;
• A pro-rated amount in respect of
bonus in respect of the year in which
the employment terminates; and
• The annual cost to the Company of
providing pension and all other
beneﬁts to which Mr Harding is
entitled under his contract.
If Mr Harding’s employment is
terminated following a change of
control of the Company and within 12
months of such change of control Mr
Harding is given notice or if Mr Harding
terminates his employment for a good
reason as deﬁned in the service contract,
the Company is obliged to pay within
seven days of the termination of the
employment a lump sum payment
calculated in the same way as the
payment in lieu of notice described
above.
Mr Singer is employed under a service
contract with the Company dated 28
May 2002. The terms and conditions of
Mr Singer’s service contract are the
same as for Mr Harding.
Non executive directors’ letters of
appointment
All non executive directors have speciﬁc
letters of engagement and their
remuneration is determined by the
Board within the limits set by the
Articles of Association and based on
independent surveys of fees paid to non
executive directors of similar companies.
Remuneration is set taking account of
the commitment and responsibilities of
the relevant role. The non executive
directors do not have service contracts. 
Mr Scott was appointed a non executive
director on 15 April 2002 and Non
Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004
under an appointment letter dated 28
October 2003 and his initial term of
ofﬁce expires on 31 December 2006.
With effect from 1 March 2005, Mr Scott
has been paid a basic annual fee of
£240,000 in respect of all services
rendered to the Company, including
chairing the Nomination Committee.
With effect from 1 March 2006, Mr
Scott’s basic annual fee was increased by
4.2% to £250,000.
In March 2005, the basic annual fee paid
to non executive directors was increased
to £36,000 and the additional fee for
chairing a Board committee increased to
£7,500. As all independent non
executive directors chaired Board
committees, they all receive an annual
fee of £43,500. With effect from 1 March
2006, the basic annual fee was increased
by 11.1% to £40,000 and the additional
fee remained the same.
Non executive directors are appointed
for an initial term of three years and in
normal circumstances, and subject to
satisfactory performance and re-
election at AGMs, they would be
expected to serve for an additional three
year term. Non executive directors may
be requested to serve for a further three
year term subject to rigorous review at
the relevant time and agreement with
the relevant director. Messrs. Allvey’s
and Gibson’s appointment letters were
dated 17 and 22 May 2002, respectively,
and their initial terms of ofﬁce expired
on 17 and 22 May 2005. Following a
review of the Board balance by the
Nomination Committee and the Board,
22
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report the terms of ofﬁce for Mr Allvey and
Mr Gibson were extended by a further
three-year term to expire on 17 May
2008 and 22 May 2008, respectively.
Mr Edmonds was appointed as an
independent non executive director in
January 2005 and his appointment letter
dated 22 December 2004 provides for
his initial term of ofﬁce to expire on 1
January 2008. Upon termination or
resignation non executive directors are
not entitled to compensation and no fee
is payable in respect of the unexpired
portion of the term of appointment.
Non executive directors cannot
participate in any of the Company’s
incentive schemes and are not eligible
to join the Group’s pension scheme.
23
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report 24
Audited information
Aggregate directors’ remuneration:
2005 2004
total total
££
Emoluments 1,219,507 1,550,333
Gains on exercise of share options 20,897 7,945,724
1,240,404 9,496,057
Directors’ emoluments:
Fees/ Beneﬁts Annual 2005 2004
basic salary)
1
in kind bonuses total total
Name of director £££££
Executive directors
David Harding 476,667 27,400 – 504,067 825,290
Tom Singer 329,142 20,464 – 349,606 421,709
Non executive directors
Charles Scott 237,500 – – 237,500 225,000
David Allvey 42,917 – – 42,917 39,167
David Edmonds 42,500 – – 42,500 –
Barry Gibson 42,917 – – 42,917 39,167
Aggregate emoluments 1,171,643 47,864 – 1,219,507 1,550,333
1
Included in fees/basic salary for Messrs. Harding and Singer was £43,333 and £29,222 respectively, paid as a salary supplement
in lieu of pension beneﬁt lost due to the Earnings Cap. 
The executive directors are the highest paid employees within the Group.
There were no payments made to executive directors by the Company during the ﬁnancial year for compensation for loss of
ofﬁce or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services. The non-cash elements of the executive directors’
remuneration packages consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private health cover, travel card and
permanent health insurance. 
Directors’ share options and awards
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of share options to acquire, or awards over,
ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors. 
Details of the options exercised during the period are as follows:
Gains on Gains on
Market exercise exercise 
Number of Exercise value at 2005 2004
Name of director Scheme options price exercise date £ £
David Harding Float bonus–––– 3,498,098
EDIP–––– 2,034,997
Tom Singer Float bonus–––– 1,525,297
EDIP–––– 887,332
SAYE 2002 5,277 £1.80 £5.76 20,897 –
20,897 7,945,724
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report 25
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Details of options for directors who served during the period are as follows:
Number of Number of
shares at Granted Exercised shares at
29 December during the during the 27 December Exercise Date from which Expiry
Name of director Scheme 2004 period period 2005 price exercisable date
David Harding EDIP 855,556 – – 855,556 Nil * June 2004 (366,666) June 2007
* June 2005 (488,890) June 2008
LTIP 2004 81,508 – – 81,508 Nil March 2007 March 2014
PSP 2005 – 245,353 – 245,353 Nil June 2008 June 2015
Tom Singer EDIP 427,778 – – 427,778 Nil * June 2004 (183,333) June 2007
*June 2005 (244,445) June 2008
LTIP 2004 48,090 – – 48,090 Nil March 2007 March 2014
PSP 2005 – 184,015 – 184,015 Nil June 2008 June 2015
SAYE 2002 5,277 – (5,277) – 180p – –
SAYE 2005 – 2,073 – 2,073 457p August 2008 January 2009
Charles Scott N/A – – – – – – –
David Allvey N/A – – – – – – –
David Edmonds N/A – – – – – – –
Barry Gibson N/A – – – – – – –
* Fully vested but not exercised
In addition, the following details the movements on deferred bonus shares for applicable directors who served during the
period:
Number of Number of
shares at Granted Transferred shares at
29 December during the during the 27 December Maturity 
Name of director Scheme 2004 period period 2005 date
David Harding Deferred bonus – 10,037 – 10,037 June 2008
Tom Singer Deferred bonus – 5,921 – 5,921 June 2008
The Company’s ordinary shares were listed and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2002 at a price of
£2.25 at which time Messrs Harding and Singer became eligible to beneﬁt under the EDIP arrangement. For the EDIP , the
performance criteria under which options have been granted are detailed on page 21. Options granted under the SAYE Share
Option Schemes are not subject to performance criteria. There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or
performance criteria for share options during the ﬁnancial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 27 December 2005 was £5.41 and the range during the period from 29 December
2004 to 27 December 2005 was £4.85 to £6.24.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Two directors were members of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. 
For Messrs. Harding and Singer, in accordance with the Regulations, the following table shows the members’ contributions, the
increase in accrued entitlement during the period and the accrued entitlement at the end of the period:
Increase in Accrued
Accrued pension Real increase accrued pension
29 December in accrued period in the 27 December
2004 pension Inﬂation period 2005
Name of director £££££
David Harding 14,733 3,642 398 4,040 18,773
Tom Singer 13,317 3,630 360 3,990 17,307 26
The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors’ accrued beneﬁts under the same scheme calculated in a manner
consisent with “Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes - Transfer Values (GN 11)” published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of
Actuaries:
Value of real Increase
increase in in transfer
Transfer value accrued pension Other changes value in the Contributions Transfer value
29 December net of to tranfer period net of made by the 27 December
2004 contributions value contributions director 2005
Name of director ££££££
David Harding 135,458 33,390 25,006 58,396 5,235 199,089
Tom Singer 85,986 22,558 18,790 41,348 5,235 132,569
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director. Instead they represent a
potential liability of the pension scheme.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting
beneﬁts are included in the above tables.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 2 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Barry Gibson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2006
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Directors’ Remuneration Report 27
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance
The directors are committed to high
standards of corporate governance
and this statement sets out how the
Board has applied the principles set
out in the July 2003 Financial
Reporting Council Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the Code) and
identiﬁes, and provides an explanation
for, any non-compliance with the
Code’s provisions during the period.
Compliance with the Code’s
provisions
Throughout the period, the Company
has complied with the provisions of
the Code other than provision D.2.4
which states that a company should
post its notice of annual general
meeting at least 20 working days prior
to the meeting. The Group expects to
comply with this provision for its 2006
meeting, however, in 2005 the posting
was slightly delayed due to
uncertainty regarding the conclusion
of discussions with Stanley Leisure
relating to the purchase of its retail
estate and whether the Group would
be proceeding with its previously
announced return of capital.
The Board
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior
Independent Non Executive Director
and other directors, including those
considered by the Board to be
independent, are listed on page 16.
Details of Board and committee
attendance are set out on page 28.
Mr Edmonds was appointed to the
Board on 1 January 2005 and no
directors have resigned during the
year. Appropriate insurance cover is in
place in respect of legal action against
directors.
The Board operates within a formal
schedule of matters reserved to it. Other
powers are delegated to the various
Board Committees and senior
management. Details of the roles and
responsibilities of the Board Committees
are set out on pages 29 and 30. Papers
for board and committee meetings are
circulated in advance of the relevant
meeting and where a director is unable
to attend he continues to be provided
with a full copy of the papers and has
the opportunity to comment on the
matters to be discussed.
The Board considers that its primary role
is to provide leadership to the Group, to
set the Group’s long term strategic
objectives and to develop robust
corporate governance and risk
management practices. The Schedule of
Matters Reserved to the Board and
delegated authorities are reviewed and
approved by the Board annually. Matters
reserved to the Board include, amongst
other matters:
• Setting the overall direction, long-
term objectives and strategy of the
Group and delegating day-to-day
management to the Chief Executive; 
• Reviewing Group performance;
• Reviewing the arrangements in place
relating to regulatory and industry
issues; 
• Approving the appointment and
removal of any Board member and
the Company Secretary; 
• Reviewing and approving the terms
of reference of the various board
committees and receiving reports
from committee chairmen on a
regular basis; 
• Approving changes to the Group’s
capital structure; any signiﬁcant
acquisitions and disposals; capital
investment projects and material
contracts;
• Approval of the Group’s annual plan,
Annual Report and Accounts and
Interim Statement, and setting the
Group’s dividend policy; 
• Approval of the Group’s charitable
donations, and Group-wide corporate
social responsibility policies;
• Undertaking reviews of board,
committee and individual director
performance at least annually; and
• Succession planning for senior
management and the Board (on the
recommendation of the Nomination
Committee). 
The authority delegated to senior
management provides a practical
framework to executive management,
which seeks to achieve the dual
objectives of maintaining effective
ﬁnancial and operational controls
whilst providing sufﬁcient ﬂexibility to
manage the business. Examples of 
areas of such delegated authority
include the release of capital
expenditure against approved
budgets; treasury activity within
approved limits; payroll processing;
property transactions; LBO
development activities; the setting of
bet acceptance limits and routine
transaction processing.
The Board comprises individuals with
wide business experience gained in
various sectors of industry and in the
public sector. They have access to all
information relating to the Group, the
advice and services of the Company
Secretary (who is responsible for
ensuring that Board procedures are
followed), and, as required, external
advice at the expense of the Group.
During the period, the Chairman met
with the non executive directors
without the executive directors being
present and as part of the process to
appraise the Chairman’s performance
the Senior Independent Non Executive
Director met with Mr Allvey and Mr
Edmonds, the other independent non
executive directors. 
Chairman and Chief
Executive 
There is a clear division of
responsibilities between the Chairman
and Chief Executive whereby the
Chairman is responsible for the
running of the Board, and the Chief
Executive has executive responsibility
for the running of the business. During
2004, the Nomination Committee and
the Board approved revised role
descriptions for these individuals
together with a written role
description for the Senior
Independent Non Executive Director
and the Nomination Committee and
the Board reviewed these documents
during 2005 to conﬁrm that they
remained appropriate. The Senior
Independent Non Executive Director’s
main role is to satisfy the function
outlined in the Code of being available
to shareholders if there are concerns
which normal contact has failed to
resolve, to lead the process for
evaluating the Chairman’s
performance and to chair the
Nomination Committee when it is
considering succession to the role of
chairman. No one individual has
unfettered powers of decision-making.
Statement on Corporate Governance Mr Scott satisﬁed the independence
criteria detailed in provision A.3.1 of
the Code on his appointment as
Chairman and details of his other
signiﬁcant commitments are set out
on page 16. He stepped down as a
director of TBI PLC in early 2005.
Board balance,
independence and
appointments
During the year, the Nomination
Committee and the Board reviewed
the structure, size and composition of
the Board (together with an evaluation
of the Board’s balance of skills,
knowledge and experience); the
membership of the various board
committees and the expected time
commitment and policy for multiple
board appointments for executive and
non executive directors.
The directors’ aim is to ensure that the
balance of the Board reﬂects the
changing needs of the Group’s
business. An additional independent
non executive director, David
Edmonds, was appointed on 1 January
2005 to strengthen the independent
element on the Board and to add
additional regulatory experience. In
2005, the Board also identiﬁed the
need for the appointment of a Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer to lead the
programme for integration of Stanley
Retail and Mr Singer was promoted to
this role in the middle of the year
assuming operational responsibility for
the Retail and Interactive businesses
and information technology. As a
result of this appointment, a vacancy
arose for a Group Finance Director and
Simon Lane will be joining the Board
on 20 March 2006. 
The Nomination Committee and the
Board will continue to monitor the
Board balance and skills at least
annually. 
During the period, the Board
comprised three independent non
executive directors out of a total of six
directors satisfying the Code
requirements that at least half the
Board, excluding the Chairman, should
comprise non executive directors
determined by the Board to be
independent.
Appointments to the Board are the
responsibility of the full Board, on the
recommendation of the Nomination
Committee. On joining the Board, non
executive directors receive a formal
appointment letter, which identiﬁes
the time commitment expected of
them. A potential director candidate is
required to disclose all signiﬁcant
outside commitments prior to
appointment and the Board has
approved a policy requiring disclosure
and approval by the Board of all
additional appointments for executive
or non executive directors. The terms
and conditions of appointment of non
executive directors and service
contracts of executive directors are
available to shareholders for
inspection at the Group’s registered
ofﬁce during normal business hours
and at the Annual General Meeting
(for 15 minutes prior to the meeting
and during the meeting).
Information and
professional development
The Board receives detailed reports
from executive management on the
performance of the Group at monthly
board meetings and other information
as necessary and senior management
regularly make presentations to the
Board on their areas of responsibility.
Regular updates are provided on
relevant legal, corporate governance
and ﬁnancial reporting developments
and directors are encouraged to
attend external seminars on areas of
relevance to their role. In early 2005,
the Board approved an information
and professional development policy
for directors.
A formal induction programme has
been developed by the Company
Secretary and approved by the
Chairman. This was discussed with Mr
Edmonds following his appointment
and tailored as appropriate. A range of
both general and Company-speciﬁc
information was provided in hard copy
and this was supplemented by a series
of meetings with senior management
and external advisers. Induction
programmes are in place for
appointment to the Board, the Audit
and Risk Management Committee and
the Remuneration Committee and a
speciﬁc induction pack for Corporate
Responsibility Committee members is
being developed.
28
2005 Board and committee meetings
Audit and Risk Corporate
Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held 21
1
6449
Meetings attended
2
Charles Scott 21 N/A 4 4 N/A
David Allvey 20
2
6 N/A 4 8
2
David Edmonds 20
2
5
2
4 N/A 8
2
Barry Gibson 19
2
6 N/A49
David Harding 21 N/A 4 N/A N/A
Tom Singer 20
2
N/A N/A N/A N/A
Notes:
1. This ﬁgure includes 11 scheduled board meetings and 10 ad hoc meetings held to consider speciﬁc issues during the year, including matters relating
to the proposed return of capital exercise, the acquisition of Stanley Leisure’s retail estate and the Extraordinary General Meeting held in June 2005. 
2. Non-attendance relates mainly to ad-hoc meetings called on short notice where directors were unable to attend due to conﬂicting commitments. The
ﬁgures shown in the table include both attendance in person and by telephone.
3. In addition to the Board meetings referred to above, the Board held an off-site strategy day with senior managers.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance 29
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance
All directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company
Secretary. The removal and
appointment of the Company
Secretary is a matter reserved for
Board approval. The Board also obtains
advice from professional advisers as
and when required. 
Performance evaluation
A process of performance evaluation
of the Board, its committees and
directors is undertaken on an annual
basis and the process undertaken for
2005 involved the following:
• The four Board committees
conducted a review of their terms of
reference and considered a detailed
questionnaire to assess committee
performance;
• One-to-one meetings were held
between the Chairman and each
director to assess individual director
performance and to allow any other
issues to be raised; and
• The performance evaluation process
concluded with an assessment by the
Board of its own performance,
feedback to the Board from the
chairman of each committee and the
Board, and approval of action to
address issues raised. 
The Senior Independent Non
Executive Director led the process for
the evaluation of the Chairman’s
performance involving discussions
with each other director, a meeting
with the other independent non
executive directors and feedback to
the Chairman. 
Re-election
All directors are subject to election at
the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting
following their appointment by the
Board. The Company’s Articles of
Association state that each year one
third of directors should retire by
rotation but that if a director has at the
start of the Annual General Meeting
been a director for more than three
years since his last re-appointment, he
shall retire. In practice, this means that
every director stands for re-election at
least once every three years.
The Board explains the reasons why it
believes each director should be
elected or re-elected in the Notice of
Meeting for the next Annual General
Meeting. As referred to above, those
directors who held ofﬁce during the
period have been subject to formal
performance evaluation and the Board
believes that their performance
continues to be effective and to
demonstrate commitment to their
relevant role. Their re-election is also
consistent with the Board’s evaluation
of the size, structure and composition
of the Board.
Remuneration 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is
set out on pages 19 to 26.
Relations with shareholders
The Board remains committed to
maintaining good relationships with
both institutional and private
shareholders. There continues to be a
regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders, although care is
exercised to ensure that any price-
sensitive information is released at the
same time to all shareholders, in
accordance with the requirements of
the UK Listing Authority. Slide
presentations provided to institutional
shareholders and analysts following
the publication of the Group’s
preliminary and interim results are
made available on the Group’s investor
relations website,
www.williamhillplc.co.uk, and a
recording of the results presentations
can be accessed via telephone for a
period following the meeting.
The Chairman is available to discuss
strategy and governance issues with
shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the
Senior Independent Non Executive
Director, is available to shareholders if
they have concerns that have not, or
cannot, be addressed through the
Chairman, Chief Executive or Group
Finance Director. A number of
meetings between the Chairman,
Chief Executive and/or the Company
Secretary and shareholders have been
held to discuss governance and
corporate responsibility issues
generally. 
The Group obtains feedback from its
broker, Citigroup, on the views of
institutional investors on a non-
attributed basis and the Chief
Executive and Group Finance Director
communicate the issues and concerns
of major shareholders to the Board. As
a matter of routine, the Board receives
a monthly report from Citigroup on
issues relating to recent share price
performance, trading activity and
institutional investor sentiment. The
Board also receives copies of relevant
analysts’ reports on an ad hoc basis.
The Board regards the Annual General
Meeting as an important opportunity
to communicate directly with all
shareholders. Board members,
including the chairmen of the
Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and
Risk Management and Corporate
Responsibility Committees, attended
the 2005 meeting and intend to
attend the forthcoming meeting and
will be available to answer questions.
In order that shareholders are aware of
the other shareholders’ voting
intentions, the details of proxy votes
for the meetings held in 2005 were
announced at the relevant general
meeting and were made available on
the Group’s website following the
meeting. The website also contains
copies of the Notices of Meeting and
explanatory notes. A separate
resolution was proposed on each
substantially separate issue. It is
intended to continue with these
practices for 2006 and future
shareholder meetings. It is planned to
post the Notice of the 2006 Annual
General Meeting to shareholders with
the Annual Report and Accounts at
least twenty working days prior to the
date of the meeting.
Board Committees
The Remuneration Committee, the
Nomination Committee, the Audit and
Risk Management Committee and the
Corporate Responsibility Committee
are standing committees of the Board.
The terms of reference of the
Committees, including their objectives
and the authority delegated to them
by the Board, are available upon
request or via the Group’s investor
relations website,
www.williamhillplc.co.uk and are
reviewed at least annually by the
relevant committee and the Board. All
committees have access to
independent expert advice.
Appointments to Board committees
are for three year terms extendable by
no more than two additional three-
year terms. Audit and Risk Management
Committee
The role and operation of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee is
set out in its report on pages 32 and
33.
Nomination Committee
The role and operation of the
Nomination Committee is set out in its
report on page 31.
Remuneration Committee
The role and operation of the
Remuneration Committee is set out in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 19 to 26.
Corporate Responsibility
Committee
In the early part of 2005, the Board
established a Corporate Responsibility
Committee. Details of its membership
and areas of key focus are set out in
the Corporate Responsibility
Statement on pages 34 to 39.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for
the Group’s internal control systems
and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Executive directors and senior
management are responsible for the
implementation and maintenance of
the internal control systems, which are
subject to periodic review that is
documented. The Internal Audit
department maintains a database
recording the system of internal
controls in every division and
department throughout the Group. 
The Board monitors the ongoing
process by which critical risks to the
business are identiﬁed, evaluated and
managed. This process is consistent
with both the Turnbull Guidance on
Internal Control, and the revised
guidance issued by the Financial
Reporting Council in October 2005,
and has been in place for the period
under review and up to the date of
approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. 
Each year the Board assesses the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of
internal controls (including ﬁnancial,
operational and compliance controls
and risk management systems) on the
basis of:
• Established procedures, including
those already described, which are in
place to manage perceived risks;
• Regular reports by management to
the Audit and Risk Management
Committee on the adequacy and
effectiveness of internal control
systems and signiﬁcant control issues; 
• The continuous Group-wide process
for formally identifying, evaluating
and managing the signiﬁcant risks to
the achievement of the Group’s
objectives; and
• Reports to the Audit and Risk
Management Committee on the
results of internal audit reviews and
work undertaken by other
departments.
The Group’s internal control systems are
designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
the Group’s objectives, and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement
or loss. In assessing what constitutes
reasonable assurance, the Board
considers the materiality of ﬁnancial and
non-ﬁnancial risks and the relationship
between the cost of, and beneﬁt from,
internal control systems.
The Board regularly reviews the actual
and forecast performance of the
business compared with the annual
plan, as well as other key performance
indicators.
Lines of responsibility and delegated
authorities are clearly deﬁned. The
Group’s policies and procedures are
regularly updated and distributed
throughout the Group. The Audit and
Risk Management Committee receives
reports on a regular basis on
compliance with the Group’s policies
and procedures.
No signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses
were identiﬁed as a result of the
review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control.
Assessment of risk
A corporate risk matrix has been
developed and has been updated by
Internal Audit and senior management
during the period. The matrix is
approved annually by the Audit and
Risk Management Committee and the
Board. The matrix records the key risks 
facing the business, the assessment of
the likelihood of the risks crystallising
and their potential materiality, and the
Group’s response to each risk.
Responsibility for management of the
risks is attributed typically to senior
management.
The Board uses the control and risk
management processes to identify and
manage any signiﬁcant risks arising
from social, environmental and ethical
issues. Further details of the Group’s
corporate responsibility practices are
described on pages 34 to 39.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit department reviews
the extent to which systems of internal
control are effective; are adequate to
manage the Group’s signiﬁcant risks;
safeguard the Group’s assets; and in
conjunction with the Company
Secretary and General Counsel, ensure
compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements. It provides independent
and objective assurance on risks and
controls to the Board and senior
management.
Internal Audit’s work is focused on
areas of greatest risk to the Group, as
determined by a structured risk
assessment process involving
executive directors and senior
management. The output from this
process is summarised in an annual
audit plan, which is approved by the
Audit and Risk Management
Committee. The Head of Internal Audit
reports regularly to the Group Finance
Director and the Audit and Risk
Management Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit
department and the scope of its work
continue to evolve to take account of
changes within the business and
emerging best practice.
Going concern
The directors have prepared the
ﬁnancial statements on a going
concern basis consistent with their
view, formed after making appropriate
enquiries, that the Group is
operationally and ﬁnancially robust.
30
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance The Company Secretary, or one of the
Committee members, acts as
secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee meets as necessary
but at least three times a year usually
before or after regular meetings of
the Board and met formally on four
occasions during 2005 and details of
attendance at Committee meetings is
set out on page 28.
Role of the Nomination
Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference
for the Committee can be obtained via
the website www.williamhillplc.co.uk
or by request to the Company
Secretary and its principal function is
to carry out a formal selection process
for executive and non executive
directors and subsequently to propose
to the Board any new appointments. 
The Nomination Committee oversees
succession planning for directors and
senior managers below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination
Committee reports to the Board on
the outcome of meetings.
Main activities during 2005
During the period, the Committee
made recommendations to the Board
regarding its size, structure and Board
and committee composition and,
along with the Chief Executive, led
the process for the recruitment of a
Group Finance Director following 
Mr Singer’s move to the role of Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer. A formal
recruitment process was undertaken
involving the production of a detailed
role description and use of external
search consultants. Mr Lane met with
the Chairman, executive directors and
Chairman of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee prior to him
being offered the role.
During 2005, the Committee also:
• Reviewed its previous
recommendations regarding the
time commitment required of non
executive directors and the policy on
multiple board appointments for
executive and non executive
directors;
• Reviewed the role descriptions for
the Chairman, Chief Executive and
Senior Independent Non Executive
Director;
• Made recommendations to the Board
regarding directors whose terms of
ofﬁce were due to expire; 
• Approved the directors who would
offer themselves for re-election at
the 2005 AGM in accordance with the
articles of association;
• Received presentations on the
performance management
framework and the management
development programmes which
apply to senior and middle
management; and
• Reviewed the Group’s succession
planning for its top 50 managers
(including executive directors).
The Committee undertook a review of
its own performance and terms of
reference during the period and the
Committee Chairman reported to the
Board on the outcome of the review.
31
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Nomination Committee
Report of the Nomination Committee
Membership and meetings
Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee together
with the year in which membership commenced. No changes have been made to
Committee membership during the period under review. The majority of
members of the Committee are independent non executive directors and the
Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman.
Director Year of appointment
Charles Scott, Chairman 2002
David Allvey 2002
Barry Gibson 2002
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Nomination Committee The Company Secretary acts as
secretary to the Committee. Other
individuals attend at the request of
the Committee Chairman and during
the period the external auditors, Chief
Executive, Group Finance Director,
Head of Internal Audit and the Group
Financial Controller would usually
attend meetings to report to the
Committee and provide clariﬁcation
and explanations where appropriate.
The Corporate Finance Manager, Head
of Compliance and Head of Security
have attended meetings as requested.
The Committee also meets with the
external auditors without executive
management present on a regular
basis. The Committee met on six
occasions during the period and
details of attendance at Committee
meetings is set out on page 28.
Mr Allvey has recent and relevant
ﬁnancial experience. He is a chartered
accountant, a former Group Finance
Director of Barclays PLC and BAT
Industries PLC and a former member
of the UK Accounting Standards
Board. Mr Edmonds and Mr Gibson
are both ﬁnancially literate and have
signiﬁcant general business
experience of executive roles in both
private and public organisations and
details of each director’s signiﬁcant
current and prior appointments are
set out on page 16.
Role of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference
for the Committee can be obtained via
the website www.williamhillplc.co.uk
or by request to the Company
Secretary. The Committee’s principal
responsibilities are to:
• Review and advise the Board on the
Group’s interim and annual ﬁnancial
statements, its accounting policies
and to monitor the integrity of the
ﬁnancial statements and
announcements relating to ﬁnancial
performance;
• Review the major risks affecting the
Group and assist the Board with
reviewing the effectiveness of the
controls operating over the Group’s
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks;
• Review the nature and scope of the
work to be performed by the
external and internal auditors, the
results of that work and
management’s response, and their
effectiveness;
• Oversee the relationship with the
external auditors including making
recommendations to the Board
regarding their appointment or
removal and developing a policy
regarding the provision of non-audit
services to the Group;
• Meet with the executive directors
and management, as well as privately
with both the external and internal
auditors; and
• Report to shareholders annually on
its role and responsibilities.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk
Management Committee reports to
the Board on the outcome of
meetings.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy
and procedure for staff to raise issues
regarding possible improprieties in
ﬁnancial reporting or other matters
has been established and was
reviewed during the year. It is the
responsibility of the Committee to
monitor its effectiveness and any
notiﬁcations made.
The Committee has access to the
services of the Internal Audit and
Company Secretarial departments
and is authorised to obtain
independent professional advice if it
considers it necessary.
Main activities during 2005
The Committee has discharged its
responsibilities during the period by
performing the following activities.
Financial statements
During the period, the Committee
reviewed and discussed the ﬁnancial
disclosures made in the preliminary
results announcement, Annual Report
and Accounts, Interim Statement and
the other trading statements made by
the Group together with any related
management letters, letters of
representation and reports from the
external auditors. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial
reporting issues and judgments were
considered together with any
signiﬁcant accounting policies and
changes proposed to them. 
Internal control and risk management
The Committee has reviewed the
Group’s internal control and risk
management systems and has
received reports from a number of
departments, and, where appropriate,
presentations from senior
management, on the major risks
faced by the Group and the
procedures established to identify,
assess, manage, monitor and report
on these risks. The Committee has
reviewed and approved the
statements on internal controls on
page 30.
External auditors 
The Committee has responsibility for
overseeing the relationship with the
external auditors and approves the
external auditors’ engagement letter,
audit fee and audit and client services
plan (including the planned levels of
materiality). The external auditors
attend each Committee meeting and
at least annually meet with the
Committee without executive
management. The Chairman of the
Committee also meets privately with
the external auditors. Letters of
representation are reviewed prior to
signature by executive management.
During the period, the Committee
received regular reports from the
32
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
Membership, meetings and remuneration
Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee together with the year in which membership commenced. During the
period, all the members of the Committee were independent non executive
directors, Charles Scott having retired from the Committee with effect from
1 January 2005. 
Director Year of appointment Appointment/retirement
David Allvey, Chairman 2002
David Edmonds 2005 Appointed 1 January 2005
Barry Gibson 2002
Charles Scott 2002 Retired 1 January 2005 external auditors including a formal
written report dealing with the audit
objectives; the auditors’ qualiﬁcations,
expertise and resources; effectiveness
of the audit process; procedures and
policies for maintaining
independence; and compliance with
the ethical standards issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. The external
auditors’ management letter is
reviewed, as is management’s
response to issues raised. The
Committee monitors the ethical
guidance regarding rotation of audit
partners and a change in audit
partner was made during 2004 when
the audit partner was rotated off the
audit in accordance with the latest
guidance. The new audit partner was
appointed following interviews with
the Committee Chairman and the
Group Finance Director and
subsequent approval by the
Committee.
During the period, the Committee
reviewed the Group’s written policy
regarding the employment by the
Group of former employees of the
external auditors and the policy on
non-audit services provided by the
external auditors. The Committee
approves any non-audit work to be
undertaken by the external auditors
involving fees in excess of £25,000.
Where no Committee meeting is
scheduled within an appropriate time
frame, approval is sought from the
Committee Chairman and
subsequently ratiﬁed at the next
meeting. All non-audit services
provided by the external auditors are
reported to the Committee at its next
scheduled meeting. The external
auditors are excluded from
performing any day-to-day
accountancy work for the Group. The
policy also sets out the criteria to be
followed when considering whether
external auditors should be engaged
to undertake non-audit services with
the aim of safeguarding the external
auditors’ objectivity and
independence.
The Committee is satisﬁed with the
performance of the external auditors
during the year, and the policies and
procedures in place to maintain their
objectivity and independence, and
has recommended that they be re-
appointed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
Internal Audit 
The Committee approves the annual
audit plan for the Internal Audit
department and monitors progress
against the plan during the period.
Audit reports are circulated to the
Committee members after each audit
and the Committee monitors progress
against actions identiﬁed in these
reports and the external auditors’
management letter.
The Internal Audit department acts
under agreed terms of reference and
the Committee has established a
number of procedures to monitor and
review the Internal Audit
department’s effectiveness using
guidance from a self-assessment
questionnaire prepared by Internal
Audit, feedback from senior
management and a review of the
Institute of Internal Auditors’
Standards for the Professional Practice
of Internal Auditing. The Committee
also assesses annually the resources
the department has to complete its
remit. The Internal Audit department
has unrestricted access to all Group
documentation, premises, functions
and employees as required to enable
it to perform its functions. The
appointment and removal of the
Head of Internal Audit is the
responsibility of the Committee. The
Head of Internal Audit has direct
access to the Board and Committee
Chairmen and is accountable to the
Committee. The Head of Internal
Audit meets regularly with the
Committee Chairman without
executive management being present.
During the period, the Chairman of the
Committee was actively involved in the
recruitment of a replacement Head of
Internal Audit. Regular updates on this
process were provided to the
Committee and the Chairman was
authorised to approve the appointment
of an appropriate candidate on behalf of
the Committee.
Other activities
During the period other signiﬁcant
activities addressed by the
Committee were as follows:
• Commenting on the Turnbull Review
Group’s review of the Turnbull
Guidance on Internal Control;
• The introduction of International
Financial Reporting Standards;
• The implementation of the Group’s
retail technology programme; 
• Updates on the Group’s business
continuity plans and their testing;
• Compliance with various corporate
governance issues; and
• A review of its own performance and
its remit.
Regular updates are provided to the
Committee on developments in
ﬁnancial reporting and risk
management and related legal and
corporate governance matters.
33
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Introduction
William Hill recognises that the Group
has a responsibility to the wider
community, as well as to its
shareholders and employees, and
believes it makes good business sense
to implement policies and procedures
that take due regard of stakeholders’
legitimate expectations. The Board is
committed to improving continuously
its practices in the area of corporate
responsibility. The range of issues
embraced by the term corporate
responsibility (CR) is extremely wide,
however, the areas of major focus for
the Group relate to those matters that
are considered to be material and
these are referred to below.
Risk management
The Board uses the risk management
processes referred to on page 30 to
identify and manage risks arising from
CR matters. The most signiﬁcant CR
issues for the Group are considered to
be as follows:
• Compliance with existing and future
laws, regulations and codes of
conduct relating to responsible
gambling; underage gambling and
protecting the vulnerable;
prevention of crime and disorder;
and product integrity issues;
• The ongoing training, development
and motivation of employees to
retain the widest possible range of
talented staff;
• Provision of a safe and healthy
workplace in accordance with
relevant legislation;
• Providing appropriate levels of
customer service; and
• Protecting customer privacy and the
proper handling and use of data
within the Group in accordance with
relevant legislation.
Leadership and management
framework
Mr Harding, the Group’s Chief
Executive, is the executive director
with responsibility for overseeing
William Hill’s activities in this area.
The Board also established a CR
Committee in March 2005 to monitor
the Group’s CR activities and this
Committee met on four occasions
during the period. The Chief Executive
and Board Committee are assisted by
the CR Working Group which was
established in the summer of 2004
and which also met on four occasions
during 2005.
The CR Committee is chaired by a non
executive director, Mr Edmonds and
its other members are the Group
Chairman and the Group Chief
Executive. This Committee monitors a
range of CR issues. Each meeting
considers a number of standing items
as follows:
• The Group’s CR performance by
monitoring a number of key
performance indicators (KPIs) in
various areas including responsible
gambling, customer service issues
and charitable giving;
• Reviewing external contact and
queries on CR issues; and
• CR action plans.
The Committee has also considered
the following matters:
• Product integrity issues, including the
fairness testing of random number
generated (RNG) based games and
the approval of a fairness testing
compliance policy;
• Employee communication issues,
such as the communication of newly
adopted policies and the Code of
Business Conduct;
• The employee matching scheme for
charitable donations and
encouragement of staff participation
in local charity events; and
• External reporting of CR information
and communication with
stakeholders on CR issues, including
the completion of the EIRIS 2005
questionnaire.
In addition there have been
presentations on:
• Responsible and underage gambling;
• Product integrity; and
• Health and safety and human
resources.
The Committee ensured that, through
a process of presentation and
discussion with staff, they were
properly briefed and gained an
appropriate understanding of the CR
issues affecting the Group.
The CR Working Group comprises the
Chief Executive and Company
Secretary together with functional
heads for the corporate strategy and
development, human resources,
property, security and customer
service departments together with
representatives from the Retail and
Interactive businesses. During 2004,
this group considered the key areas of
focus for the various stakeholder
groups; the Group’s existing policies
and procedures in these key areas;
and the action being undertaken by
the Group. This resulted in an action
plan being produced, which has been
considered by each of the meetings in
2005 together with progress on
outstanding actions. The Working
Group reviews papers prior to
submission to the CR Committee; acts
as a forum for operational
management to discuss CR issues;
and reports are provided by working
group members on CR activities in
their areas of responsibility. 
Communication
In 2004, the Group identiﬁed a need
to increase communication, both
internally and externally, on the
Group’s activities in the area of
corporate responsibility. This has been
achieved by increasing the level of
disclosure via the annual report and
accounts and making additional
information available on the Group’s
website at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
regarding activities in the CR area. The
website contains copies of the
Group’s policies in the CR area. In
February 2005 the Group adopted a
Code of Business Conduct (available
on the Group’s website), which covers
the basic principles the Board expects
to be complied with across the Group
in a variety of areas, including bribery,
corruption and fraud.
The Group has an active dialogue
with various stakeholder groups and
has met, on request, with institutional
shareholders to discuss activities in
this area. During 2006 the Group
plans to explore further avenues of
communication with staff and
shareholders alike.
Government 
Gambling Act
The Gambling Act, which received
Royal Assent in the ﬁrst half of 2005,
states the licensing objectives as:
34
Corporate Responsibility Statement
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement • The prevention of crime and
disorder; 
• Conducting gambling in a fair and
open way; and 
• Protecting the vulnerable.
Information on the Group’s activities
in these areas is set out in the sections
on crime and disorder, product
integrity and responsible and
underage gambling later in this
statement.
Codes of conduct
The Group supports the Gambling
Act’s licensing objectives and has
worked with relevant trade
associations to adopt appropriate
codes of practice and to exchange
best practice in this area. During 2003,
the Association of British Bookmakers
(ABB) introduced a social
responsibility and good practice code
for LBOs and a code of practice
governing the supply and use of
ﬁxed-odds betting terminals in LBOs.
The Remote Gambling Association
(RGA) has also introduced a social
responsibility code, which the Group
was actively involved in developing,
and William Hill is a member of the
Association’s social responsibility
committee. The social responsibility
codes deal with issues relating to
responsible and underage gambling
and cover such areas as advertising
and promotion, age veriﬁcation, staff
training, customer communication
and support for social impact
initiatives. 
During 2004 the Group introduced
voluntary self-exclusion procedures
for problem gamblers in its retail
estate and in February 2005 this was
extended to the Group’s Interactive
and Telephone betting channels. In
addition, enhanced age veriﬁcation
procedures were introduced in the
Group’s online business with the aim
of preventing gambling by under 18s.
Customer Service and call centre staff
received appropriate training to deal
with customers who may wish to self-
exclude. GamCare provided assistance
by reviewing the Group’s internal
training materials for both the Retail
and remote businesses. Compliance
reviews of Interactive and Telephone
betting self-exclusion procedures
have taken place during 2005 and
refresher training for some staff was
conducted as a result. 
William Hill has also been working
with the RGA to develop an
appropriate code regarding fairness
testing of games which use a random
number generator.
Gambling Commission
The Gambling Commission has been
established and the Group is
participating in liaison meetings with
this body, along with other members
of the industry. The Commission plans
to publish in 2006 draft codes of
practice, licence conditions and
standards relating to gambling issues
and activities and the Group plans to
be actively involved in this
consultation exercise.
Crime and disorder
The Group’s current operations are
licensed under relevant legislation
and the Group is committed to
gambling being conducted in a way
that is crime free and appropriately
regulated. The Group has a
compliance ofﬁcer, the Group’s Head
of Security, who is responsible for
ensuring that the Group complies
with relevant legislation in the area of
money laundering and proceeds of
crime, and that appropriate training is
provided to employees. The ABB, of
which the Group is a member, has a
memorandum of understanding in
place with the Jockey Club relating to
the sharing of information when
either criminal offences or the
integrity of racing is suspected.
A similar document is in place with
the Football Association and the
Association of Tennis Professionals.
The ABB also has arrangements
agreed with greyhound racing,
snooker, cricket and rugby league and
its practice is to inform the relevant
governing body of the sport
whenever matters concerning
integrity arise. The Group co-operates
with the ABB on integrity issues.
The Security Department maintains
close relationships with relevant law
enforcement agencies and the
provision of information is strictly
controlled by the Head of Security to
ensure compliance with the Data
Protection Act.
The Group’s Security Department has
undertaken risk assessments of all 
LBOs, considering their potential
vulnerability to robberies and
violence in the workplace incidents.
Appropriate crime prevention
measures have been introduced to
meet the perceived risk. Such
measures include the ﬁtting of bandit
screens in vulnerable shops,
installation of improved digital closed
circuit television (CCTV) systems and
ﬁtting of electronic door locks to staff
areas. In the event of an incident
occurring, affected shops are
reassessed by the Security
Department and steps taken to
minimise further risk, where
appropriate. The Group has
established a close liaison with a
number of local authority
environmental health departments
and crime prevention ofﬁces. 
Smoking
The Government’s proposals
regarding smoking have been the
subject of debate in early 2006 and it
is anticipated that legislation for a
total ban on smoking in public places
will be introduced.
In February 2005 the Group adopted a
formal Group-wide smoking policy.
A number of measures are in place to
reduce the effect of smoking in the
LBOs:
• There are currently air cleaners in
over 80% of the Group’s recently
expanded estate;
• No smoking areas are provided in a
number of LBOs where the layout
allows; and
• Staff are not permitted to smoke
behind the counter and customers
are discouraged from smoking
at the counter by the display of
‘No Smoking’ signs in this area.
In addition, the Group’s
administration buildings nationwide
operate a no smoking policy.
The Group complies with the current
no smoking legislation in the Republic
of Ireland and is preparing to comply
with similar legislation in Scotland,
which is being introduced in March
2006. A copy of the Group’s smoking
policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
35
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement Customers and communities
Customer service
William Hill is committed to high
standards of customer service and to
conducting its gambling operations in
a fair and open way. William Hill’s
customers are key to the Group’s
ongoing success. Dedicated customer
service departments are in place for
each of the Group’s main operations
handling enquiries on a large range of
issues. Service complaints are given
serious consideration and consistent
procedures are in place across the
Group and are monitored.
Comprehensive betting rules, which
detail the terms and conditions under
which all transactions placed with
William Hill are accepted, are available
to customers. The Group endeavours
to resolve all betting disputes in a fair,
consistent and equitable manner.
However, if these are unable to be
resolved to the customer’s satisfaction
the customer is entitled to refer the
matter to the Independent Betting
Arbitration Service (IBAS). William Hill
has agreed to abide by any ruling
they make. 
Product integrity
William Hill has a number of products
where the outcome of an event is
determined by a random number
generator (RNG). RNGs are either
administered by external third parties
or by the Group itself. The Group has
introduced procedures to ensure that
the randomness of its own RNGs is
certiﬁed and that fairness testing of
game outcomes is conducted. The
Group has also been working with
third parties to help provide regular
assurance on the accuracy, fairness
and integrity of its gaming systems.
The Group continues to work with
suppliers with the objective of
ensuring they adopt the high level of
fairness testing conducted internally.
Privacy
The Group has systems in place to
protect the privacy of information
provided by customers. William Hill
complies with the Data Protection Act
1998 and the Data Protection
Principles set out in that Act in the
collection and processing of personal
information. Periodic audits are
undertaken with relevant heads of
department to review practices in this
area. A copy of the Group’s privacy
policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
Responsible and underage gambling
William Hill encourages a socially
responsible attitude within the
betting and gaming industry and
within its own organisation and is
committed to the Government’s
stated objective of protecting
children and the vulnerable from
being harmed or exploited by
gambling. The Group has been
actively involved through relevant
trade associations in developing
industry-wide codes in the area of
social responsibility and is committed
to listening to the views of relevant
stakeholder groups. The Group has an
ongoing dialogue with GamCare, a
charity involved in providing
information, advice and practical help
regarding the impact of gambling,
and is also a major contributor to the
Responsibility in Gambling Trust. The
Group is committed to implementing
appropriate procedures within the
organisation to deal with both
responsible and underage gambling
and further details are set out in the
section ‘Codes of conduct’ on page 35.
In February 2005, the Group
introduced self-exclusion procedures
for Interactive and Telephone
customers to complement those
introduced in 2004 for LBO customers.
Shortly following the introduction of
the Group’s self-exclusion procedures,
GamCare assessed the understanding
of responsible and underage
gambling issues within the Group’s
LBOs, which involved visits to 39 LBOs
in 4 regions. The Group passed the
audit and feedback was provided
from GamCare following the
completion of the process. William
Hill’s self-exclusion procedures and
those that were operating in the
Stanley shops acquired in June 2005
have both gained GamCare
certiﬁcation. Standardised self-
exclusion procedures have now been
adopted across the retail estate.
During 2005, the Group engaged an
external consultant to undertake a
further audit in a total of 30 shops
across all regions to assess
compliance with the Group’s
procedures. A number of
recommendations were made
following this review and various
actions undertaken to improve
activities in this area.
Recommendations made included the
need to improve signage to deter
potential underage gambling, more
effective display of GamCare leaﬂets
and posters and the need to enhance
staff awareness of the procedures.
Action has been taken to address
these issues, including redesign of the
underage gambling posters, the
introduction of self assessment
documentation, audits by shop
managers and deputy managers, ad-
hoc audits by line management and
refresher training. In addition, the
requirement to comply with Company
procedures relating to social
responsibility has been included in
the role summaries for LBO managers,
deputy managers and customer
service assistants. It is planned to
undertake audits on a periodic basis
going forward and to incorporate
responsible gambling within the
Group’s more general mystery
shopper programme, Retail Eyes.
During 2005 a best practice age
veriﬁcation process for use with
online customers was introduced and
revised procedures were
implemented in the Group’s retail
estate regarding underage gambling.
There is a continuing  dialogue with
banks via relevant trade associations
to establish if they can provide
additional veriﬁcation in this area.
William Hill will continue to monitor
best practice as it develops and to
review its policies and procedures on
a regular basis. 
The Group has also introduced
wording on its customer
communications regarding
responsible gambling (e.g. shop door
poster, promotional material,
customer statements and other
correspondence with customers) and
facilities to enable gamblers to limit
the amount of money they spend on
the Group’s online operations.
A copy of the Group’s responsible
gambling policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
Access to services
Customers with disabilities have a
right of access to the Group’s services.
Accessibility issues are taken into
account in accordance with
appropriate codes of practice when
opening and reﬁtting the Group’s
LBOs, and a combination of ramps,
36
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement stair lifts, disabled toilets and
induction loops for the hard of
hearing are ﬁtted, where appropriate.
In addition, services offered in the
LBOs can be accessed on the internet
or via the telephone. Details of all of
these services can be obtained from
the William Hill Customer Helpline.
Employees
The Group’s success is dependent on
its employees and it is committed to
high standards of employment
practice. The Group rewards
individuals fairly and is committed to
providing equality of opportunity,
training and development and a safe
workplace. 
Policies
A comprehensive set of human
resources policies are in place
including policies covering health and
safety (including speciﬁc policies on
stress management and smoking),
equal opportunities and harassment,
ﬂexible working, training and
development, the acceptance of gifts
and hospitality and whistle blowing.
These are communicated to
employees as appropriate. In 2005 the
Group approved a Code of Business
Conduct. At present this has been
communicated to the Group’s senior
managers and it is planned to make
the code available more widely to all
staff during 2006. A copy of the
Group’s Code of Business Conduct is
made available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
William Hill is committed to
undertaking its operations in a way,
which respects individual’s human
rights and treats individuals with
dignity and respect.
Health and safety
A copy of the Group’s health and
safety policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. A Health
and Safety Committee meets
regularly to review compliance with
applicable health and safety
legislation and regulation, to keep up
to date with best practice and to
review and maintain compliance with
health and safety procedures. The
Committee includes senior managers
from the Group’s human resources,
security, property and company
secretarial departments, together
with representatives of operational
management. An external health and
safety consultant advises the
Committee. Staff are provided with
information and training on health
and safety issues as part of their
induction and on an ongoing basis.
Risk assessments are undertaken and
the Group monitors the application
and understanding of the safety
instructions through a system of
safety audits, Health and Safety Co-
ordinators and the Health and Safety
Committee. In early 2005 the Group’s
practices in the area of lone working
were reviewed and updated.
Following the introduction of
electronic point of sale in the Group’s
retail estate, the LBO procedures
manual continues to be reviewed and
updated to reﬂect issues arising from
the implementation. In addition
during 2005 a further review and
update has been carried out on the
procedures in place at the Group’s
greyhound stadia.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to equal
opportunities in the workplace in
terms of selection, promotion,
training and development. Relevant
policies are communicated to Group
employees and there are clear lines of
responsibility regarding monitoring
their effectiveness, implementation
and communication to staff. 
Training and development
William Hill is committed to investing
in the training and development of all
its employees. The Group provides
initial induction training at the
commencement of employment
(including training on responsible and
underage gambling) supported,
where necessary, by speciﬁc skills
training relevant to their job. Further
training and development is provided
to individuals throughout their career
to enable employees to maintain and
improve standards of performance,
deal effectively with any changes to
the work environment and to develop
their abilities and realise their full
potential. Selection for further
training and development is based on
individual needs, ability and the
needs of the business. Training is
provided either internally or
externally as appropriate and the
Group has a dedicated team of
employees providing training and
development within the Group and
facilitating training by District
Training Co-ordinators. In addition to
the usual induction process, an
example of training provided during
the year was the substantial training
of all Retail employees in the new
processes and working practices
involved with the Group’s electronic
point of sale rollout. Following last
year’s training on responsible
gambling issues within the LBOs, the
Group was assessed by GamCare and
was subsequently awarded
accreditation. As part of the business
continuity planning testing
programme, the Group also
continued with a series of business
continuity workshops for employees
working in the Telephone betting,
Interactive and IT operations which
involved dealing with, and reacting
to, a theoretical business crisis.
The Group also has in place a
Management Development Policy
focussed on identifying those
individuals within the organisation
that demonstrate both the ability to
operate at a more senior level and the
personal drive and enthusiasm to
develop themselves. Speciﬁc
programmes are in place covering
development for supervisory/junior
management, middle management,
senior management and senior
executives. 
During 2005 the Group launched a
formal performance management
process for its most senior employees.
This included a substantial training
investment to ensure consistency and
effectiveness. During 2006 it is
intended to roll this programme and
training out to the next tiers of
management.
Communication
The Group places considerable value
on the involvement of its employees
and is committed to providing
effective communication on matters
which may affect staff, and more
generally, on the development and
performance of the Group. During the
period a review of internal
communication was conducted and
various recommendations to improve
internal communication were made.
As part of the review, workshops were
held with staff across the Group and
staff feedback was sought and noted.
The existing Group magazine has
been replaced by a new style
37
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement publication, Will2Win, which will be
circulated to all employees on a bi-
monthly basis.
Employee representatives are
consulted regularly on a wide range
of matters affecting their current and
future interests and are encouraged
to raise any issues or concerns. The
Group has established staff councils
for Retail staff in each of the Group’s
geographic regions. These are chaired
by the relevant Regional Director.
There is also a council in place for the
major administrative centre. The
acquisition of Stanley Retail and the
review of communications during the
year have led to changes being
proposed in the future organisation of
the staff councils. These changes will
be ﬁnalised and implemented during
2006.
During 2005, William Hill completed a
Group-wide communication
programme to introduce electronic
point of sale within its LBO estate
which kept employees informed of
the process via regular brieﬁngs with
line management and update videos
and the opportunity to provide
feedback to management has been
given.
As a result of the acquisition of
Stanley Retail, the Group invested
substantially in communication with
the existing William Hill employees
and the new colleagues from the
acquired business. This involved a
series of road shows, newsletters,
group and individual brieﬁngs,
together with personalised letters to
individual employees explaining the
implications of the acquisition and
future timetable for integration.
Supporting sports-related
and other bodies
William Hill is committed to being a
responsible corporate citizen and
recognises its wider social
responsibility by seeking to support
the communities in which the Group
operates through charitable
donations and other relevant
payments.
Levies
The Group supports horse racing via
the statutory levy and greyhound
racing via the voluntary donation to
the British Greyhound Racing Fund
(BGRF). The sums payable for 2005
were £24,621,000 and £3,071,000
respectively. These funds are used by
the respective bodies for a wide
variety of purposes including animal
welfare issues.
A budget has been independently
established for the greyhound stadia
to be used to assist with greyhound
welfare issues. A facility has been
established which will enable up to 25
dogs to be housed for up to three
months with the intention of
permanently re-homing them. In the
ﬁrst three months of opening 16
greyhounds were successfully 
re-homed by this facility. 
Charitable donations
The Group’s charitable donations are
mainly focussed on organisations
involved in areas of greatest relevance
to the William Hill business and in the
early part of 2005 the Board adopted
a charitable donations policy stating
that the major focus of the Group’s
efforts would be in supporting bodies
involved in:
• Promoting a responsible approach to
gambling; undertaking research into
problem gambling; and providing
information, advice and help to those
who are at risk or are experiencing
difﬁculties with their gambling;
• Greyhound and racehorse welfare;
and
• Support to disadvantaged
individuals in horse and greyhound
racing.
The Group is also committed to
providing support, wherever possible,
to its employees through their own
fundraising efforts. In the past this has
been dealt with on a relatively ad-hoc
basis. However, for 2005 the Group
allocated a proportion of the Group’s
charitable donations budget to match
funds (up to a speciﬁed limit) raised
by employees on local charitable
projects. On occasion, the Group also
supports organisations with whom it
does business in their fundraising
efforts and in these cases donations
may not fall within the donations
policy referred to above.
During the period the Group made
charitable donations of £351,000 of
which £200,000 was paid to the
Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
During 2005 employees from the
former Stanley LBOs raised £56,000
for Children In Need through various
fundraising events. William Hill added
a further £19,000 to bring the total
funds donated to £75,000.
The Group has established a
Charitable Donations Committee,
which reviews, on a quarterly basis,
requests for charitable donations
against the Board’s agreed policy.
William Hill does not make donations
to political parties.
Environment
A copy of the Group’s environmental
policy is available at
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. It is
recognised that all business activities
have a direct and indirect impact on
the environment and William Hill
strives to act in an environmentally
responsible manner.
Policy
As a retail and service organisation,
the Group’s main impact on the
environment is through the buildings
William Hill operates and the
resources used by staff in their day-to-
day work. The Group’s environmental
practices reﬂect William Hill’s business
operations, and its main risks and
interactions with the environment,
and are largely focussed on:
• Compliance with environmental laws
and regulations;
• Minimising waste by the promotion
of recycling practices and re-use of
materials as opposed to disposal,
where this is practicable;
• Efﬁcient use of energy and water and
investigating ways of reducing
consumption in this area; and
• Raising awareness of environmental
issues within the Group.
Action to date
The Group’s Property Department
takes primary responsibility for
identifying issues and opportunities
within the Group’s LBO estate and the
following action has been taken:
• High frequency light ﬁttings are
speciﬁed in all new development and
refurbishment projects thereby
reducing the number of lamps
requiring disposal;
38
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement • The Group is fully compliant with all
current legislative guidelines
regarding the disposal of hazardous
waste and is preparing to comply
with the new Waste, Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
Directive which is being introduced
in 2006;
• Air-conditioning and fascia lighting
are controlled by time clocks to
ensure efﬁcient use of energy;
• Electrostatic air cleaners are installed
in over 80% of the Group’s LBO’s. This
updated ﬁgure from 2004 takes into
account the Group’s increased estate
following the recent acquisition of
Stanley Retail;
• New style fascias continue to be
rolled out as LBOs are upgraded
which will reduce electricity
consumption;
• More energy efﬁcient (inverter) air
conditioning units are being installed
on new projects and when
replacements are required; and
• Water management systems for toilet
facilities continue to be rolled out to
reduce water consumption and an
increasing proportion of the LBO
estate is ﬁtted with water meters.
Facilities for recycling paper and toner
cartridges are in place at the Group’s
head ofﬁce and regional ofﬁce
buildings. The Group continues to
monitor opportunities for recycling
materials from the William Hill LBOs
and administration buildings.
Future action
The Board is committed to taking
steps to improve continuously its
practices in the CR area and to
embedding CR issues into its
corporate governance and operating
framework. 
During 2005, the Group has made
signiﬁcant progress in the CR area,
which includes:
• The Board establishing a CR
Committee to monitor the Group’s
CR activities;
• The Group was admitted to the
FTSE4Good Index;
• Key performance indicators (KPIs)
were developed in a number of areas
to allow the Group to monitor its CR
performance;
• Voluntary self-exclusion procedures
for problem gamblers were
introduced in the Interactive and
Telephone betting businesses;
• GamCare certiﬁcation was obtained
for LBO social responsibility
procedures;
• Enhanced age veriﬁcation
procedures were launched in the
Interactive business with the aim of
preventing gambling by under 18s;
• The ‘citizen card’ proof of age scheme
was introduced in the retail estate;
• Fairness testing procedures were
introduced to ensure the integrity of
game outcomes;
• A performance management scheme
was launched for senior
management; and
• A review of internal communications
was conducted.
In 2006, the Group intends to
continue to progress those initiatives
that are already ongoing. For
example, it will continue to monitor
KPIs established during the year with
a view to establishing targets once a
trend in data has been established.
During 2006, the Group will continue
to work with the Gambling
Commission in their consultation
exercise on draft codes of practice,
licensing conditions and standards
relating to gambling issues and
activities. The Group plans, during the
year, to embark on a further series of
audits and compliance reviews in the
area of responsible gambling. It also
intends to roll out the performance
management scheme to the next tier
of management. The Group will
continue to participate in the various
trade associations’ development of
codes of practice for social
responsibility and other areas.
Changes have been proposed to the
organisation of staff councils and
these will be ﬁnalised and
implemented during the course of
2006.
Over time the Group plans to make
additional information available to
stakeholders via the Group’s website
and in future annual reports. The
Group welcomes feedback on it
activities. 
39
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement 40
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial period, which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the ﬁnancial period and of the proﬁt or loss of
the Group for that period.
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 41
Independent Auditors’ Report
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of William Hill PLC
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 which comprise the
consolidated proﬁt and loss account, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the consolidated balance
sheet, the Company balance sheet, the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, the statement of accounting policies and the related
notes numbered 1 to 35. These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As described in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Company’s directors are responsible for the preparation of the
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards. They are also responsible for
the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Our
responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been
audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the ﬁnancial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the ﬁnancial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions with the Company
and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Statement on Corporate Governance reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
July 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read the Directors’ Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above period as described in the
contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the ﬁnancial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited. It also includes an assessment of
the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• The ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 27 December 2005 and of the proﬁt of the Group for the 52 weeks
then ended; and
• The ﬁnancial statements and part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
2 March 2006 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
42
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005
52 weeks
ended 52 weeks
Before Exceptional27 December ended
exceptional items 2005 28 December
items (note 3) Total 2004
(restated)
Notes £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Existing operations 9,812.3 – 9,812.3 8,287.7
Acquisitions 933.8– 933.8 -
2 10,746.1 – 10,746.1 8,287.7
Cost of sales (10,114.9) – (10,114.9) (7,726.3)
Gross profit 2 631.2 –631.2 561.4
Net operating expenses 4 (388.8) (29.4) (418.2) (330.4)
Operating profit
Existing operations 226.8(10.4) 216.4 231.0
Acquisitions 15.6(19.0)(3.4) –
2 242.4(29.4) 213.0 231.0
Share of associate’s operating profit 5 3.6– 3.6 3.1
Profit on disposal of fixed assets – 2.5 2.5 –
Profit on ordinary activities before finance charges 246.0 (26.9) 219.1 234.1
Net interest payable 6 (39.9) (2.4) (42.3) (25.2)
Other finance charges 7 (1.1)– (1.1) (1.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 8 205.0 (29.3) 175.7 207.4
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 11 (63.7) (0.6) (64.3) (57.6)
Profit on ordinary activities after tax for the financial period 141.3 (29.9) 111.4 149.8
Dividends proposed and paid 13 (69.6) – (69.6) (65.1)
Retained profit for the financial period 28 71.7(29.9) 41.8 84.7
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 14 28.5 36.5
Basic - adjusted 14 36.2 36.5
Diluted 14 28.1 35.9
Consolidated Statement of Total
Recognised Gains and Losses
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005
52 weeks 52 weeks 
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial period 111.4 149.8
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension scheme 26 2.0 (10.7)
Deferred tax attributable to actuarial gain/(loss) 11 (0.6) 3.2
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the period 112.8 142.3
Prior period adjustment 1 (0.6)
Total recognised gains and losses since last annual report and
financial statements 112.2 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 27 December 2005
43
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets - goodwill 15 1,177.1 736.2
Tangible assets 16 188.7 119.0
Investments 17 3.4 2.9
1,369.2 858.1
Current assets
Stocks 19 0.4 0.3
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 20 20.4 15.4
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year 20 – 5.9
Cash at bank and in hand 76.6 60.5
97.4 82.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 21 (186.3) (203.6)
Net current liabilities (88.9) (121.5)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,280.3 736.6
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 22 (1,016.1) (447.7)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 25 (12.5) -
Net assets excluding pension liability 251.7 288.9
Pension liability 26 (31.8) (38.5)
Net assets including pension liability 219.9 250.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 27,28 39.1 40.5
Share premium account 28 311.3 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 28 3.1 1.7
Merger reserve 28 (26.1) (26.1)
Own shares held 28 (57.5) (59.3)
Profit and loss account 28 (50.0) (17.7)
Equity shareholders’ funds 28,29 219.9 250.4
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 2 March 2006 and are signed on its behalf by:
D C I Harding T D Singer
Director Director William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Company Balance Sheet
44
Company Balance Sheet
as at 27 December 2005
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 17 38.2 38.2
38.2 38.2
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 20 1,756.5 1,531.5
Cash at bank and in hand – -
1,756.5 1,531.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 21 (207.2) (516.3)
Net current assets 1,549.3 1,015.2
Total assets less current liabilities 1,587.5 1,053.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 22 (1,016.1) (447.7)
Net assets 571.4 605.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 27,28 39.1 40.5
Share premium account 28 311.3 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 28 3.1 1.7
Own shares held 28 (56.1) (56.1)
Profit and loss account 28 274.0 308.3
Equity shareholders’ funds 28 571.4 605.7
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 2 March 2006 and are signed on its behalf by:
D C I Harding T D Singer
Director Director William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005
45
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 30 242.0 247.3
Dividend from associate 2.1 -
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 31 (33.4) (23.3)
Taxation (49.4) (57.4)
Capital expenditure and financial investment 31 (53.8) (27.3)
Acquisitions and disposals 31 (466.1) (3.8)
Equity dividends paid (66.6) (59.6)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before financing (425.2) 75.9
Financing 31 441.3 (61.8)
Increase in cash in the period 32 16.1 14.1 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Accounting Policies
46
Statement of Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005
A summary of the Group’s principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the period and the
preceding period (except as explained in note 1), is set out below.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom accounting standards and company law except as set out below in respect of intangible fixed assets.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to
the same period end as the Group.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions
On the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the
fair value of tangible fixed assets, other assets and liabilities acquired, represents goodwill, which is accounted for in accordance
with the policy set out under intangible fixed assets. 
Intangible fixed assets
The Group’s intangible assets represent licence value, goodwill and brand value. Intangible assets such as licences and brands
that are purchased as part of a business cannot be measured reliably and are therefore subsumed within purchased goodwill in
accordance with paragraph 13 of FRS10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’ . 
The Companies Act 1985 requires goodwill and intangible assets to be amortised over a finite period. The directors consider
that the Group’s intangible assets have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well
established market; the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services and greyhound racing; the operation of current
law that acts as a barrier to entry for new entrants; and the Group’s track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and
licences.
Consequently, the directors consider that to amortise these assets would not provide a true and fair view and so the financial
statements depart from this specific requirement of the Companies Act 1985. If this departure from the Companies Act 1985
had not been made, the profit for the financial period would have been reduced by amortisation. The amount of this
amortisation cannot be quantified because of the indefinite life of these assets.
The non-amortisation of the intangible assets means that they are subject to annual impairment testing in accordance with
FRS10 and FRS11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill’ . 
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at cost, less provision, if any, for impairment together with
additions at cost, less cumulative depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost or
valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Long leasehold properties – 50 years
Short leasehold properties – over the unexpired period of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment and motor vehicles – at variable rates between 3 and 10 years
Software and web site development costs
Design and content development costs are capitalised only to the extent that they lead to the creation of an enduring asset
delivering benefits at least as great as the amount capitalised. If there is insufficient evidence on which to base reasonable
estimates of the economic benefits that will be generated in the period until the design and content are next updated, the costs
of developing the design and content are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred. William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Accounting Policies
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision, if any, for impairment.
In the Company balance sheet, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued for investments in
subsidiaries acquired for consideration that includes the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief. Any premium is ignored.
Associates
Shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. The consolidated profit and loss account includes
the Group’s share of profit on ordinary activities before finance charges, attributable finance charges and attributable taxation
of associated undertakings. In the consolidated balance sheet, the investment in associated undertakings is shown as the
Group’s share of net assets or liabilities of associated undertakings and the unamortised element of goodwill relating to the
acquisition of associated undertakings. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the
policy set out under intangible fixed assets.
Stocks
Stocks represent stocks of consumables in stores and goods for resale within the greyhound stadia. They are stated at the lower
of cost and net realisable value.
Tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Group’s taxable profits and its results as
stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it
can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over,
being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Revenue recognition and turnover
Revenue is recognised under an exchange transaction with a customer, when, and to the extent that, the Group obtains the
right to consideration in exchange for its performance.
Turnover is the revenue resulting from exchange transactions under which the Group supplies to customers the services that it
is in business to provide as set out below.
In the case of the LBO, telephone and interactive sportsbook businesses (including FOBTs, games on the online arcade and
other numbers bets), turnover represents the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed, on
events that have occurred by the period end.
In the case of AWPs and the online casino operation, turnover represents the net winnings (excluding VAT) from customers on
gaming activity completed by the period end.
Turnover from the online poker business reflects the net income (‘rake’) earned from poker games completed by the period
end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, turnover represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the
period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
47 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Accounting Policies
48
Statement of Accounting Policies
Leases
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal amounts over the periods of the leases.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line basis over the
lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing
market rate is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used.
Pensions
The Group operates defined contribution schemes and a defined benefit scheme open to eligible employees in the Group. The
assets of the schemes are held and managed separately from those of the Group.
For the defined contribution scheme the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other
post-retirement benefits represents the contributions payable in the period. Differences between contributions payable in the
period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
For the defined benefit scheme, the Group has adopted the provisions of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’in that the amounts
charged to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments. They are
included as part of staff costs. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benefits have
vested. If the benefits have not vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs. The interest
cost and the expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance costs or income. Actuarial gains and losses
are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit
method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent
currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each
balance sheet date. The resulting defined benefit asset or liability, net of the related deferred tax, is presented separately after
other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
Foreign exchange
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at
an average rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the
rates ruling at that date. Translation differences arising are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange and the assets and liabilities at
closing rates of exchange at the relevant balance sheet date. Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets
and from translating results at average rates and assets and liabilities at closing rates are reported in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses.
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of that debt at a constant rate on the carrying
amount.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs. The carrying amount is reduced by
payments made in the period. Accrued finance costs are included within accruals and deferred income.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group are interest rate swaps and collars. The Group does not enter into speculative
derivative contracts. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying
exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest
rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Termination payments made or received are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying
exposure continues to exist. In other cases termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Own shares held
Own shares held in treasury and held in employment benefit trusts are included within reserves.  Share-based payments
The Group has adopted the requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’in these financial statements. In accordance with the
transition provisions included in FRS 20, its provisions have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were
unvested as of 31 December 2003.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates on Inland Revenue approved Save As
You Earn (SAYE) share option scheme open to all eligible employees which allow the purchase of shares at a discount. The cost
to the Group of share-based payment plans is measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is expensed on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula. The expected life used in the model has been
adjusted, based on management’s best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions
applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in note 33.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement of Accounting Policies
49 1. Changes in accounting policies and restatement of comparatives
As encouraged by the Accounting Standards Board, the Group has adopted FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’in the 52 weeks to 27
December 2005, although it is not mandatory in this period. 
FRS 20 changes the basis of charging the profit and loss account for share-based remuneration. Under the provisions of FRS 20,
options granted are valued and charged to the profit and loss account on the basis of fair values as calculated by an option
pricing model rather than on the basis of the intrinsic value of the share on which the option was granted, as was the case
previously. In addition the costs of SAYE schemes are chargeable under FRS 20 whereas formerly they were exempt. The
transitional arrangements of FRS 20 also mean that all options granted before 7 November 2002 do not attract a charge. 
The effect of these changes is that in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 the charge under FRS 20 is £1.3m more than the
charge that would have been reported under UK GAAP prior to the introduction of FRS 20 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004
– £2.1m less than under UK GAAP prior to FRS 20). In addition, there is a related increase in the tax charge and a reduction of
deferred tax asset of £0.4m in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £0.6m reduction in
the tax charge and increase in the deferred tax asset). As the deferred tax adjustment is the only one that affects cumulative
reserves, £0.6m is shown as the prior period adjustment in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
50
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 2. Segmental information
The Group’s turnover, profits and operating net assets primarily arise from customers in the United Kingdom and therefore
segmental information by geographical location is not presented. 
Segmental information by distribution channel is shown below:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Turnover
– Retail 9,285.5 7,020.7
– Telephone 605.8 540.8
– Interactive 826.0 696.3
– Other activities 28.8 29.9
10,746.1 8,287.7
Gross win
– Retail 623.4 548.1
– Telephone 53.4 60.3
– Interactive 123.3 106.1
– Other activities 7.6 7.6
807.7 722.1
Operating profit
– Retail 181.6 165.5
– Telephone 13.0 22.1
– Interactive 61.2 51.7
– Other activities (0.1) (0.3)
– Central costs (13.3) (8.0)
242.4 231.0
Exceptional items
1
(note 3) (29.4) –
213.0 231.0
Net assets
– Retail 127.7 73.4
– Telephone 1.8 0.7
– Interactive 2.8 2.7
– Other activities 7.2 7.1
– Corporate 80.4 166.5
219.9 250.4
1
£26.4m of exceptional items incurred relates to the Retail channel and £3.0m relates to central costs.
The Retail distribution channel comprises all activity undertaken in LBOs including AWPs and FOBTs. Other activities include on-
course betting and greyhound stadia operations.
Net assets have been allocated by segment where assets and liabilities can be identified with a particular channel. Corporate
net assets include goodwill, corporation and deferred tax, borrowings net of cash balances, pension liability and dividends
payable as well as any assets and liabilities that cannot be allocated to a particular channel other than on a relatively arbitrary
basis.
51
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 2. Segmental information (continued)
The directors believe that gross win and operating profit are more important performance metrics than turnover.
The segmental analysis of gross win set out above is shown before deducting GPT, duty, levies, VAT and other cost of sales to
arrive at gross profit. A reconciliation from gross win to gross profit as presented in the profit and loss account is set out below:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Gross win 807.7 722.1
GPT, duty, levies, VAT and other cost of sales (176.5) (160.7)
Gross profit 631.2 561.4
3. Exceptional items
Exceptional operating items are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Costs of implementation of EPOS and text systems 
1
7.4 –
Costs of integration of Stanley Retail acquisition 
2
19.0 –
Costs of aborted return of capital scheme 
3
3.0 –
29.4 –
1
Costs arose from the roll out of electronic point of sale and text systems across the LBO network and primarily encompass
training and consultancy costs. 
2
Costs arose from the due diligence on and the integration of Stanley Retail (as defined in note 18) and comprise primarily
external consultancy costs, redundancy and related staff costs and asset impairments.
3
Costs represent professional fees incurred in respect of an aborted plan to return capital.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Profit on disposal of fixed assets 2.5 –
Gain made on the disposal of the 12 William Hill LBOs, as part of the sale of 76 LBOs undertaken after the Office of Fair Trading
review of the purchase of Stanley Retail.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
52
Notes to the Financial Statements
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 3. Exceptional items (continued)
Exceptional interest costs are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Write off of previously capitalised bank facility fee 2.3 –
Breakage fee 0.1 –
2.4 –
Following the negotiation of new banking arrangements and the consequent repayment of the old bank facility, the
unamortised costs of £2.3m associated with the old facility were written off.
A tax charge of £0.6m was recognised in respect of the exceptional items. This represents the net increase in corporation tax
payable, which the Group expects to incur in respect of these exceptional items and comprises:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Capital gain on disposal of 76 LBOs 
1
7.1 –
Tax relief expected in respect of operating and interest costs (6.5) –
0.6 –
1
Due to the accounting rules governing the subsequent disposal of acquired operations, the profit and loss account bears
the full tax charge relating to the capital gain on the disposal of 76 LBOs, while the gain on disposal is only recognised in
the profit and loss account in respect of the sale of the 12 William Hill shops. The net proceeds of the remaining 64 Stanley
Retail LBOs have been used to determine fair values and hence have been reflected through adjusted goodwill recognised
as set out in note 18.
4. Net operating expenses
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Administrative expenses 424.1 334.7
Other operating income (5.9) (4.3)
418.2 330.4
5. Share of associate’s operating profit
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Share of operating profit in associated undertaking 3.6 3.1
The above represents the Group’s share of the operating profit of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (note 17). 
53
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 6. Net interest payable and similar charges
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest receivable:
Interest receivable 2.5 1.9
Share of associate’s net interest receivable 0.1 –
Interest payable and similar charges:
Bank loans and overdrafts (41.5) (25.6)
Guaranteed unsecured loan notes 2005 – (0.2)
Amortisation of finance costs (1.0) (1.3)
(39.9) (25.2)
Exceptional interest costs (note 3) (2.4) –
Net interest payable (42.3) (25.2)
7. Other finance charges
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 8.6 7.1
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (9.7) (8.6)
(1.1) (1.5)
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
54
Notes to the Financial Statements
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 8. Profit on ordinary activities before tax
Profit on ordinary activities before tax is stated after charging/(crediting):
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Depreciation – owned assets 
1
27.0 16.2
Operating lease charges:
– plant & machinery (including AWPs and FOBTs) 5.4 8.0
– other (including land and buildings) 34.1 29.2
Profit on sale of fixed assets (0.2) (0.6)
1
Included within depreciation of £27.0m is a £5.4m impairment in respect of technology and fascia assets acquired as part of
Stanley Retail but of limited subsequent value to the integrated Group. This impairment charge is incorporated within the
exceptional costs relating to the integration of Stanley Retail (note 3). 
The following fees were payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Audit fees and related work:
Statutory audit 0.3 0.3
Further assurance services 0.1 0.1
0.4 0.4
Fees for other services:
Integration consultancy 0.6 –
Advice in connection with aborted return of capital 0.3 –
Acquisition due diligence 0.4 –
Tax services
– compliance services 0.2 0.1
– advisory services – 0.1
1.5 0.2
‘Further assurance services’in the table above includes fees paid in respect of auditing industry levy calculations and amounts
paid in respect of the audit of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 
All of the above fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP were charged to the profit and loss account with the exception of £0.4m
incurred in respect of the acquisition due diligence which is included in intangible assets.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP are reviewed by the Audit and Risk Management Committee to ensure such
fees are competitive. The Committee sets the policy for awarding non-audit work to the auditors and reviews the nature and
extent of such work and related fees in order to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees disclosed above consolidate
all payments made to Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Group audit fee includes £10,000 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £10,000) in respect of the Company’s audit.
55
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 9. Staff costs
The average monthly number of persons employed, including directors, during the period was 13,174 (52 weeks ended 28
December 2004 – 11,217) all of whom are engaged in the administration and provision of betting and gaming services. Their
aggregate remuneration comprised:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 194.0 158.6
Social security costs 14.1 14.4
Other pension costs (note 26) 6.3 18.9
214.4 191.9
Included in other pension costs is £2.0m relating to actuarial gains (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £10.7m actuarial
losses), which have been credited to the statement of total recognised gains and losses. 
10. Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ remuneration
Details of directors’ remuneration for the period are provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 24 to 26.
Directors’ interests
The directors who held office at 27 December 2005 had the following interests, including family interests (all of which were
beneficial) in the ordinary shares of William Hill PLC:
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Number Number
Chairman:
Charles Scott 85,817 85,817
Executive directors:
David Harding 50,000 50,000
Tom Singer 31,286 26,009
Non executive directors:
David Allvey 13,333 13,333
David Edmonds 5,000 –
Barry Gibson 15,556 15,556
No changes took place in the interests of directors between 27 December 2005 and 2 March 2006.
No director had any interest in shares in any other Group company.
Directors’ share options and awards
Details of directors’ share options and awards are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 25.
56
Notes to the Financial Statements
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 11. Tax on profit on ordinary activities
The tax charge comprises:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
UK corporation tax at 30% 51.4 57.4
UK corporation tax – prior periods – (1.7)
Overseas tax 0.5 0.3
Share of associated undertaking tax charge 1.1 1.0
Total current tax charge 53.0 57.0
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences 11.3 0.6
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 64.3 57.6
The effective tax rate in respect of ordinary activities before exceptional items was 31.1% (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 –
27.8%). The effective tax rate in respect of ordinary activities after exceptional items was 36.6%. This is higher than the statutory
rate of 30% due to:
– Chargeable gains arising on the sale of the Stanley Retail LBOs being treated as part of the tax charge whereas for
accounting purposes the gains are dealt with in arriving at goodwill (note 3); and
– The Group incurred a number of expenses on which it will not get tax relief.
The relatively low tax rate in the prior period resulted from the utilisation of certain tax losses in that period.
The differences between the total current tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK
corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 175.7 207.4
Tax on Group profit on ordinary activities at standard UK
corporation tax rate of 30% (52 weeks ended 28 December
2004 –30%) 52.7 62.2
Accelerated capital allowances (3.8) (2.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – (1.7)
Other short term timing differences (1.6) 0.7
Permanent differences 5.2 0.5
Held over gains crystallising 0.1 0.5
Utilisation of tax losses (6.0) (3.0)
Tax on profits credited against goodwill 6.4 –
Total current tax charge 53.0 57.0
57
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 11. Tax on profit on ordinary activities (continued)
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard
rate for UK corporation tax, currently 30%. The elements of deferred tax (assets)/liabilities shown on the balance sheet are as
follows:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 7.2 1.2
Held over gains – 0.1
Other short term timing differences (1.6) (0.7)
Tax losses to be recovered (0.6) (6.5)
Deferred tax liability/(asset) shown in provisions (note 25) 5.0 (5.9)
Deferred tax on pension liability (note 26) (13.6) (16.5)
(8.6) (22.4)
Movement in the period:
Asset at beginning of period (22.4) (19.8)
Acquisition 1.9 –
Amount charged to profit and loss account 11.3 0.6
Amount charged/(credited)to statement of total recognised
gains and losses 0.6 (3.2)
Asset at end of period (8.6) (22.4)
The current rate of corporation tax of 30% has been used to calculate the amount of deferred tax. Provision has been made for
all deferred tax assets and liabilities in respect of accelerated capital allowances, held over capital gains, short term timing
differences and tax losses arising from transactions recognised in the financial statements of the current and previous periods. 
The Group had the following unprovided deferred tax liabilities/(assets):
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Rollover gains 3.2 3.2
Capital losses – (1.7)
Tax losses (10.1) (10.1)
(6.9) (8.6)
No provision has been made for the deferred tax liability of £3.2m (28 December 2004 – £3.2m) in respect of capital gains rolled
over into non-depreciating assets as it is the intention to retain these assets for the foreseeable future. Tax on these rolled over
gains would only become payable if the assets were sold without further rollover relief.
Deferred tax assets of £10.1m (28 December 2004 – £11.8m) in respect of carried forward tax losses have not been recognised,
as it is not expected that suitable taxable profits will arise in the foreseeable future to utilise these losses.
The Company has no provided or unprovided deferred tax assets or liabilities.
12. Profit attributable to William Hill PLC
The profit after tax for the period, dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company William Hill PLC, was £44.4m (52
weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £198.4m). As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and
loss account is presented in respect of the parent company.
58
Notes to the Financial Statements
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 13. Dividends proposed and paid
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Equity shares:
– interim dividend paid 23.5 22.0
– final dividend proposed/paid 46.1 43.1
69.6 65.1
Dividend per ordinary share (pence) 18.3 16.5
The interim dividend of 6.1p (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – 5.5p) was paid on 5 December 2005. The proposed final
dividend of 12.2p (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – 11.0p) will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 6 June 2006 to
all shareholders on the register on 5 May 2006.
Under an agreement signed in November 2002, The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust agreed to waive all
dividends. As at 27 December 2005, the trust held 1.2m ordinary shares. In addition, the Company has not provided for
dividends on the 10.5m shares held in treasury. The Company estimates that 378.2m shares will qualify for the final dividend.
14. Earnings per share
The basic, adjusted and diluted earnings per share are calculated based on the following data:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Profit after tax for the financial period 111.4 149.8
Exceptional items – operating expenses 29.4 –
Exceptional items – profit on disposal of fixed assets (2.5) –
Exceptional items – interest 2.4 –
Exceptional items – tax charge 0.6 –
Profit after tax for the financial period before exceptional items 141.3 149.8
Number (m) Number (m)
Basic weighted average number of shares 390.5 410.1
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Employee share awards and options 5.5 7.4
Dilutive weighted average number of shares 396.0 417.5
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust
and those shares held in treasury as such shares do not qualify for dividends. The effect of this is to reduce the average number
of shares by 12.7m in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – 8.7m).
An adjusted earnings per share based on profit for the financial period before exceptional items has been presented in order to
highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
59
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 15. Intangible assets – goodwill
Group
£m
Cost and net book value:
At 29 December 2004 736.2
Stanley Retail acquisition (note 18) 440.7
Other acquisitions (note 18) 1.9
Disposal of 12 LBOs (note 3) (1.7)
At 27 December 2005 1,177.1
The Group’s intangible assets represent licence value, goodwill and brand value. Intangible assets such as licences and brands
that are purchased as part of a business cannot be measured reliably and are therefore subsumed within purchased goodwill in
accordance with paragraph 13 of FRS10 ‘Goodwill and Intangible Assets’ . 
The Company does not own any intangible fixed assets.
16. Tangible assets
Group
Fixtures,
Land and fittings and Motor
buildings equipment vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 29 December 2004 139.1 96.7 4.2 240.0
Additions 20.7 31.4 1.2 53.3
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 41.3 2.6 – 43.9
Disposals (0.7) (2.6) (1.0) (4.3)
At 27 December 2005 200.4 128.1 4.4 332.9
Accumulated depreciation:
At 29 December 2004 52.3 66.2 2.5 121.0
Charge for the period 11.2 14.9 0.9 27.0
Disposals (0.6) (2.3) (0.9) (3.8)
At 27 December 2005 62.9 78.8 2.5 144.2
Net book value:
At 27 December 2005 137.5 49.3 1.9 188.7
At 28 December 2004 86.8 30.5 1.7 119.0
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Freehold 52.1 32.6
Long leasehold 8.6 5.0
Short leasehold 76.8 49.2
137.5 86.8
60
Notes to the Financial Statements
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 16. Tangible assets (continued)
Out of the total net book value of land and buildings, £2.1m (28 December 2004 – £2.3m) relates to administration buildings
and the remainder represents licensed betting offices. The gross value of assets on which depreciation is not provided amounts
to £7.6m representing freehold land (28 December 2004 – £1.1m).
The Company does not own any tangible fixed assets.
17. Investments
Group Company
27 December 28 December27 December 28 December
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Subsidiary undertakings (a) – – 38.2 38.2
Associated undertaking (b) 3.4 2.9 – –
3.4 2.9 38.2 38.2
(a) Subsidiary undertakings
Company £m
Cost and net book value:
At 29 December 2004 and 27 December 2005 38.2
It is the opinion of the directors that the total value of the Company’s investment in its subsidiaries is not less than the amounts
at which they are stated in the balance sheet. 
61
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 17. Investments (continued)
The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their share capital and the nature of
their trade are listed below:
Proportion of
all classes of
issued share
capital
Country of owned by the
Directly owned: incorporation Company Nature of trade
William Hill Holdings Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Held through intermediate companies:
William Hill Investments Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Will Hill Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Windsors (Sporting Investments) Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Camec Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill Organization Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services 
William Hill (Course) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill Credit Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (North Eastern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (North Western) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Southern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Football) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Strathclyde) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Caledonian) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Grampian) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (London) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Midlands) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Scotland) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Western) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill (Essex) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Provincial) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Scotland) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Camec (Southern) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Laystall Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Brooke Bookmakers Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
James Lane Group Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Arena Racing Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Transdawn Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Willstan Racing Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Willstan Racing (Ireland) Limited Republic of Ireland 100% Betting services
L Willstan Limited Northern Ireland 100% Betting services
BJ O’Connor Limited Jersey 100% Betting services
Willstan (IOM) Limited Isle Of Man 100% Betting services
The Regal Sunderland Stadium Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
Team Greyhounds (Brough Park) Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
William Hill Casino NV Netherland Antilles 100% Online casino
William Hill Online NV Netherland Antilles 100% Online casino
The proportion of voting rights held is the same as the proportion of shares held.
A full list of the Company’s subsidiaries will be appended to the Company’s Annual Return.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
62
Notes to the Financial Statements 17. Investments (continued)
(b) Associated undertaking
Group
Provision for
impairment of Share of net
Goodwill goodwill assets Total
£m £m £m £m
At 29 December 2004 24.0 (24.0) 2.9 2.9
Share of profit before taxation – – 3.6 3.6
Share of interest – – 0.1 0.1
Share of taxation – – (1.1) (1.1)
Dividend received – – (2.1) (2.1)
At 27 December 2005 24.0 (24.0) 3.4 3.4
At 27 December 2005 William Hill Organization Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company, held an investment of 20.95%
(28 December 2004 – 19%) of the ordinary share capital of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (SIS), a company
incorporated in Great Britain. William Hill Organization Limited’s shareholding has increased in the period from 19% to 20.95%
due to SIS repurchasing and cancelling a portion of its ordinary share capital. The investment has been accounted for as an
associated undertaking using the equity method and the change in the Group’s share of its net assets is shown above.
The SIS group of companies provides real time pre-event information and results, as well as live coverage of horse racing,
greyhound racing and certain numbers draws, via satellite. The statutory financial statements of SIS are prepared to the year
ending 31 March. The consolidated figures above are based on management accounts for the calendar year 2005.
A provision was made in 1999 against goodwill relating to the acquisition of shares in SIS to recognise impairment in the
carrying value.
William Hill Organization Limited holds directly or indirectly 33% of the entire share capital of Lucky Choice Limited and of 49’s
Limited. These companies were formed for the purpose of promoting and publicising certain numbers betting formats. In the
opinion of the directors, the results of these companies are not material to the results of the Group. Consequently, the
investments have been stated at cost and have not been accounted for under the equity method, which would normally be
appropriate for an associated undertaking.
18. Acquisition of investments
Stanley Retail
On 18 June 2005, the Group acquired Stanley Leisure plc’s retail bookmaking operations in Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the
Republic of Ireland, Jersey and the Isle of Man (Stanley Retail) for total cash consideration of £506.6m including costs of £6.6m.
The capitalised goodwill on this transaction was £440.7m representing licence value and goodwill. This goodwill is subject to an
annual impairment review in accordance with FRS 10 and FRS 11.
Stanley Retail earned a profit after taxation but before exceptional items of £15.2m in the period from 2 May 2005 to
27 December 2005 (year ended 1 May 2005 – £17.3m), of which £3.8m arose in the period from 2 May 2005 to 18 June 2005.  
The summarised profit and loss account for the period from 2 May 2005 to 18 June 2005, shown on the basis of the accounting
policies of Stanley Retail prior to the acquisition, was as follows:
£m
Turnover 88.3
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 5.3
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (1.5)
Profit on ordinary activities after tax 3.8
63
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 18. Acquisitions (continued)
The following table sets out the amalgamated book values of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities of Stanley Retail and
their provisional fair value to the Group:
Book Fair value Fair value 
value adjustments to Group
£m £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 257.9 (214.0)
a, b, c
43.9
Current assets
Stocks 0.2 (0.1)
d
0.1
Debtors and prepayments 3.2 (0.3)
b
2.9
Assets held for resale – 31.1
b
31.1
Cash 8.1 (0.1)
b
8.0
Total assets 269.4(183.4) 86.0
Creditors
Creditors and accruals (15.6) (1.2)
b, e
(16.8)
Provisions
Onerous contracts – (1.4)
e
(1.4)
Deferred tax (1.9) – (1.9)
Total liabilities (17.5)(2.6) (20.1)
Net assets 251.9(186.0)65.9
Less: cash consideration 506.6
Goodwill arising 440.7
The explanations for the fair value adjustments are as follows:
a. Adjustment of £206.1m to property valuation reflecting the disaggregation of betting licence value which under Stanley
Retail’s accounting policy was included in tangible assets, while under the Group’s accounting policy, it remains part of
goodwill;
b. Adjustments to various assets and liabilities reflecting the disposal in July 2005 of 28 LBOs to Tote Bookmakers Limited for
total net consideration of £14.7m and the subsequent disposal in December 2005 of 36 LBOs also to Tote Bookmakers
Limited for a total net consideration of £15.3m. In addition £1.1m has been included in this adjustment in respect of the
profits earned by the disposed Stanley Retail LBOs in their period of ownership by the Group;
c. Reduction of £7.8m to reflect the depreciated replacement cost of the assets and a £2.6m increase in values representing IS
assets in use in Stanley Retail which were previously shown as having no net book value;
d. Adjustment of £0.1m to stock items reflecting the Group’s policy in respect of certain consumables; and
e. Adjustment for ante post and sleeper bets (£0.8m), dilapidations and vacant properties (£0.7m) and onerous contracts
(£1.4m). 
The cash consideration for the purchase of Stanley Retail comprised the headline figure of £504.0m, less adjustment for
working capital of £4.0m plus professional fees and stamp duty of £6.6m.
Other acquisitions
The Group also purchased another two LBOs in the period for a total cash consideration of £1.9m, principally representing
goodwill and the value of the relevant licences. The other net assets acquired with these LBOs were negligible.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
64
Notes to the Financial Statements 18. Acquisitions (continued)
Stanley Retail and other acquisitions
Net cash outflows in respect of the acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration (508.5)
Cash at bank and in hand acquired 8.0
(500.5)
Included in cash consideration of £508.5m is £6.6m in respect of professional fees and stamp duty.
19. Stocks
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials, consumables and bar stocks 0.4 0.3
The Company does not hold any stocks.
20. Debtors
Group Company
27 December 28 December27 December 28 December
2005 2004 2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m £m £m
Trade debtors 2.7 1.9 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 1,756.0 1,531.5
Deferred taxation (note 11) – 5.9 – –
Other debtors 2.2 1.1 – –
Prepayments 15.5 12.4 0.5 –
20.4 21.3 1,756.5 1,531.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year included above are:
Group Company
27 December 28 December27 December 28 December
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Deferred taxation (note 11) – 5.9 – –
65
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 21. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
27 December 28 December27 December 28 December
2005 2004 2005 2004
Note £m £m £m £m
Bank loans 23(a) – 49.8 – 49.8
Trade creditors 29.1 23.7 – –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 145.6 416.2
Corporation tax 38.1 33.8 – –
Other taxation including social security 18.6 13.1 0.9 0.8
Other creditors 5.6 3.0 – –
Accruals and deferred income 48.8 37.1 14.6 6.4
Proposed dividend 46.1 43.1 46.1 43.1
186.3 203.6 207.2 516.3
Included in trade creditors is an amount of £16.0m (28 December 2004 – £13.1m) in respect of amounts due to clients,
representing deposits received and customer winnings. This is offset by an equivalent amount of client funds held, which is
included in cash at bank and in hand.
22. Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Group Company
27 December 28 December27 December 28 December
2005 2004 2005 2004
Note £m £m £m £m
Bank loans 23(a) 1,016.1 447.7 1,016.1 447.7
23. Borrowings
(a) Bank loans
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Less than one year – 50.0
One to two years – 60.0
Two to five years 1,020.0 390.0
1,020.0 500.0
Less: expenses relating to loan (3.9) (2.5)
1,016.1 497.5
Less: included in creditors: amounts falling due in less
than one year (note 21) – (49.8)
1,016.1 447.7
At 27 December 2005, the Group had total bank facilities of £1,200m available to it, split into two tranches:
– Tranche A comprising a term loan of £600m repayable on 1 March 2010;
– Tranche B comprising a revolving facility of £600m available until 1 March 2010.
Mandatory repayments are required to be made under the terms of the loan documentation, including, but not limited 
to, the net proceeds of certain asset sales. The maturity profile above is analysed on the basis of calendar years from the
balance sheet date. 
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
66
Notes to the Financial Statements 23. Borrowings (continued)
The bank facilities bear interest at a variable margin of between 0.4% and 0.75% above LIBOR, dependent on certain financial
ratios. The applicable margin at 27 December 2005 was 0.525%. 
The Group had the following interest rate hedging arrangements at 27 December 2005 under which the LIBOR element of the
interest payable is swapped for fixed rate payments:
– Two interest rate swaps, each for a notional principal of £12.5m and expiring on 23 June 2006. The average fixed rate to
be paid under these swaps is 5.11725%;
– Four amortising interest rate swaps, each for a notional principal of £43.8m at 27 December 2005 reducing to £26.3m by
30 September 2006 and expiring on 31 December 2006. The average fixed rate to be paid under these swaps is 5.35%;
– One interest rate swap, for a notional principal of £165.0m reducing to £120.0m by 30 September 2006 and expiring on
31 December 2007. The average fixed rate to be paid under this swap is 4.925%; and
– Seven interest rate swaps entered into during the period but not taking effect until after the period end for a total
notional principal of £300.0m and expiring on 31 December 2009. The weighted average fixed rate to be paid under
these swaps is 4.57%.
In addition the Group has also entered into interest rate collars expiring on 31 December 2009 under which:
– the floating LIBOR rate applicable to £300.0m of notional principal is capped at 5.00% with a floor rate of 4.00%; and
– the floating LIBOR rate applicable to £40.0m of notional principal is capped at 4.75% with a floor rate of 3.75%.
A commitment fee of 37.5% of the applicable margin is payable on the undrawn element of the revolving facility. The revolving
facility drawn down at 27 December 2005 was £420.0m (28 December 2004 – £330.0m). 
The total facility is secured by guarantees given by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
(b) Overdraft facility
At 27 December 2005, the Group had an overdraft facility with National Westminster Bank plc of £5.0m (28 December 2004 –
£5.0m). The balance of this facility at 27 December 2005 was £nil (28 December 2004 – £nil).
24. Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Operating and Financial Review on page 13 provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during
the period in creating or changing the risks that the Group faces in its activities. The explanation summarises the objectives and
policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that
have been followed during the period.
The numerical disclosures in this note deal with financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in FRS 13 ‘Derivatives and
other financial instruments: disclosures’ . For this purpose, certain financial assets such as investments in subsidiary and
associated companies are excluded from the scope of these disclosures. As permitted by FRS 13, short-term debtors and
creditors have also been excluded from the disclosures, other than the currency disclosures. Borrowings are included gross of
the related expenses.
67
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
68
Notes to the Financial Statements
24. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
(a) Interest rate risk – financial assets
Financial assets comprise cash at bank and in hand. Interest on floating rate financial assets is based on the overnight deposit
rate available in the money markets.
Financial assets at 27 December 2005: 
Non-
Floating interest
rate bearing
financial financial
Total assets assets
£m £m £m
Currency:
Sterling 69.6 47.3 22.3
Other currencies 7.0 2.0 5.0
76.6 49.3 27.3
Financial assets at 28 December 2004: 
Non-
Floating interest
rate bearing
financial financial
Total assets assets
£m £m £m
Currency:
Sterling 55.3 40.0 15.3
Other currencies 5.2 2.0 3.2
60.5 42.0 18.5
(b) Interest rate risk – financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at 27 December 2005 (after taking into account interest rate swaps): 
Fixed rate financial
liabilities
Weighted
Floating Fixed Weighted average
rate rate average period for
financial financial interest which rate
Total liabilities liabilities rate is fixed
£m £m £m % Y ears
Currency:
Sterling 1,020.0 315.0 705.0 5.6 3
Financial liabilities at 28 December 2004 (after taking into account interest rate swaps): 
Fixed rate financial
liabilities
Weighted
Floating Fixed Weighted average
rate rate average period for
financial financial interest which rate
Total liabilities liabilities rate is fixed
£m £m £m % Years
Currency:
Sterling 500.0 115.0 385.0 6.0 2
Further details of interest rates on long term borrowings and interest rate swaps are given in note 23. Three month LIBOR is the
benchmark rate for determining interest payments on the floating rate financial liabilities. 24. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
(c) Currency exposures
The main functional currency of the Group is sterling. A number of transactions are conducted in other currencies which give
rise to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. None of these currency amounts is considered material
enough to disclose separately.
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) at 27 December 2005:
Net foreign currency assets/(liabilities)
Other
Sterling currencies Total
£m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling – (3.9) (3.9)
Other currencies 0.1 – 0.1
0.1 (3.9) (3.8)
Net foreign currency monetary assets at 28 December 2004: 
Net foreign currency assets/(liabilities)
Other
Sterling currencies Total
£m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling –––
Other currencies – – –
–––
(d) Liquidity
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 27 December 2005 was as follows:
Bank
Total loans
£m £m
Amounts falling due in:
More than two year but not more than five years 1,020.0 1,020.0
1,020.0 1,020.0
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 28 December 2004 was as follows:
Bank
Total loans
£m £m
Amounts falling due in:
One year or less, or on demand 50.0 50.0
More than one year but not more than two years 60.0 60.0
More than two year but not more than five years 390.0 390.0
500.0 500.0
69
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 24. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities: 
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Expiry date:
More than two years but not more than five years 180.0 120.0
180.0 120.0
(e) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities as at 27 December 2005 and 28 December 2004:
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance
the Group’s operations:
Cash 76.676.6 60.5 60.5
Current portion of long term borrowings –– (50.0) (50.0)
Long term borrowings (1,020.0)(1,020.0) (450.0) (450.0)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest
rate profile:
Interest rate swaps –(2.0) – (2.5)
Interest rate collars 0.5 0.9 ––
Derivative pricing models have been used to calculate the fair values of interest rate swaps and collars. 
There is no significant difference between book and fair value of the Group’s bank facilities and other borrowings.
(f) Hedging
As explained in the Operating and Financial Review, the Group’s policy is to substantially hedge its interest rate exposure using
interest rate swaps.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the expense being hedged is itself recognised. Total
net unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging and the movements therein are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Unrecognised losses on hedges at beginning of period (2.5) (4.8)
Losses arising in previous periods that were recognised
in the period 1.4 2.6
Losses arising before beginning of period that were not
recognised in the period (1.1) (2.2)
Losses arising in the period that were not recognised
in the period (0.5) (0.3)
Unrecognised losses on hedges at the end of period (1.6) (2.5)
(Losses)/gains expected to be recognised in the next
financial period (2.4) 0.3
Gains/(losses) expected to be recognised after the next
financial period 0.8 (2.8)
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
70
Notes to the Financial Statements 25. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Group Rationalisation Deferred
provisions tax Total
£m £m £m
At 29 December 2004 – – –
Transferred from debtors recoverable over one year – (5.9) (5.9)
Provided in period 19.0 11.3 30.3
Recognised in pension deferred tax asset – (2.3) (2.3)
Acquisition (note 18) 1.4 1.9 3.3
Utilised (12.9) – (12.9)
At 27 December 2005 7.5 5.0 12.5
Further details relating to the deferred tax provision are provided in note 11.
The rationalisation provisions relate to the cost of integrating the Stanley Retail acquisition.
The Company does not have any provisions.
26. Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom. The
respective costs of these schemes are as follows:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Defined contribution scheme (charged to operating profit) 1.1 0.6
Defined benefit scheme (charged to operating profit) 6.1 6.1
Defined benefit scheme (charged to other finance charges) 1.1 1.5
Defined benefit scheme ((credited)/charged to statement of
total recognised gains and losses) (2.0) 10.7
6.3 18.9
At 27 December 2005, company contributions of £nil (28 December 2004 – £nil) remained outstanding in respect of the defined
contribution scheme.
Defined benefit scheme
A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 30 September 2004 and updated to 27 December 2005 by a qualified independent
actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary were:
27 December 28 December 30 December
2005 2004 2003
Rate of increase of salaries 3.75% 3.75% 3.75%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.75% 2.75% 2.75%
Discount rate 4.90% 5.25% 5.50%
Inflation assumption 2.75% 2.75% 2.75%
71
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 26. Pensions (continued)
The assets in the scheme and their expected rate of return were as follows:
27 December 2005 28 December 2004 30 December 2003
Expected Expected Expected
return Value return Value return Value
% £m %£m % £m
Equities 6.10 141.9 6.50 114.3 6.10 102.4
Corporate bonds 4.90 12.5 5.25 9.0 5.50 4.5
Gilts and cash 4.10 18.0 4.50 8.2 4.50 5.9
Total market value of assets 172.4 131.5 112.8
Present value of scheme liabilities (217.8) (186.5) (158.1)
Deficit in scheme (45.4) (55.0) (45.3)
Related deferred tax asset (note 11) 13.6 16.5 13.6
Net pension liability (31.8) (38.5) (31.7)
The scheme is a funded scheme and the contribution rate for future service benefits for 2005 was 19.2% of members’
pensionable pay. In addition, during 2005 the Group made an additional contribution of £9.4m as the first annual payment of
a five-year funding plan agreed with the Trustee to remove the funding deficit disclosed at the last formal actuarial valuation
at 30 September 2004. This funding plan will be reviewed following the next formal actuarial valuation, which is due as at
30 September 2007. 
The scheme is closed to new members and has been replaced by a defined contribution scheme, which is open to eligible
joiners.
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Current service cost 5.9 5.7
Past service cost 0.2 0.4
Total operating charge 6.1 6.1
Analysis of the amount charged to other finance charges:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets (8.6) (7.1)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 9.7 8.6
Net return 1.1 1.5
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
72
Notes to the Financial Statements 26. Pensions (continued)
Analysis of the amount recognised in statement of total recognised (gains) and losses (STRGL):
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (18.9) (4.3)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities (2.1) (2.6)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme 19.0 17.6
(2.0) 10.7
Movement in deficit during the period:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Deficit in scheme at beginning of period (55.0) (45.3)
Movement in period:
Current service cost (5.9) (5.7)
Contributions 14.8 8.6
Past service costs (0.2) (0.4)
Other finance charges (1.1) (1.5)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 2.0 (10.7)
Deficit in scheme at end of period (45.4) (55.0)
History of experience gains and losses:
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks
ended ended ended ended ended
27 December 28 December 30 December 31 December 1 January
2005 2004 2003 2002 2002
Difference between the expected and actual
return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 18.9 4.3 13.1 (35.0) (23.5)
% of scheme assets 11% 3% 12% (38%) (20%)
Experience gains and (losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 2.1 2.6 (2.1) (1.4) 3.3
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities 1% 1% (1%) (1%) 3%
Total amount recognised in STRGL:
Amount (£m) 2.0 (10.7) (3.7) (36.6) (28.8)
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities 1% (6%) (2%) (28%) (24%)
73
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 27. Called up share capital
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Number of Number of
shares £m shares £m
Authorised – ordinary shares of 10p each
At 27 December 2005 and 28 December 2004 800,000,000 80.0 800,000,000 80.0
Called up, allotted and fully paid – ordinary share
of 10p each:
At start of period 404,881,389 40.5 421,811,111 42.2
Shares cancelled (14,142,398) (1.4) (16,929,722) (1.7)
At end of period 390,738,99139.1 404,881,389 40.5
The shares were cancelled during the period as part of the Company’s share buy-back programme.
Share options and awards
Options and awards have been granted to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company under share option and award
schemes as shown below:
Number of Price
shares under per Exercise
option share period
Executive Directors’ Incentive Plan 1,283,333 – Between 2003 and 2008
Long Term Incentive Plan (2003) 1,402,503 – Between 2006 and 2013
Long Term Incentive Plan (2004) 851,441 – Between 2007 and 2014
Profit Share Plan (2005) 2,481,919 – Between 2008 and 2015
Deferred bonus shares (2004) 43,715 – June 2008
SAYE 2002 2,964,066 £1.80 Between 2005 and 2010
SAYE 2003 1,049,602 £1.76 Between 2006 and 2011
SAYE 2004 614,150 £3.93 Between 2007 and 2012
SAYE 2005 582,006 £4.57 Between 2008 and 2013
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
74
Notes to the Financial Statements 28. Capital and reserves
Group:
Share Capital Own Profit
Share premium redemption Merger shares and loss
capital account reserve reserve held account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 28 December 2004 (as
previously reported) 40.5 311.3 1.7 (26.1) (59.3) (17.1) 251.0
Prior period adjustment (note 1) ––––– (0.6) (0.6)
As restated 40.5 311.3 1.7 (26.1) (59.3) (17.7) 250.4
Retained profit for the financial
period ––––– 41.8 41.8
Actuarial gain recognised in the
pension scheme ––––– 2.0 2.0
Deferred tax arising thereon ––––– (0.6) (0.6)
Shares repurchased and cancelled (1.4) – 1.4 – – (78.3) (78.3)
Expense recognised in respect of
share remuneration ––––– 2.2 2.2
Movement on reserves due to
transfer of own shares to recipients –––– 1.8 0.6 2.4
At 27 December 2005 39.1 311.3 3.1 (26.1)(57.5)(50.0) 219.9
Own shares held at 27 December 2005 amounting to £57.5m comprise 10.5m shares (nominal value – £1.1m) held in treasury
purchased for £56.1m and 1.2m shares (nominal value – £0.1m) held in The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust
purchased for £1.4m. The shares held in treasury were purchased at a weighted average price of £5.32. At 27 December 2005
the total market value of own shares held in treasury and in the Trust was £63.8m.
Company:
Share Capital Own Profit
Share premium redemption shares and loss
capital account reserve held account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 December 2004 40.5 311.3 1.7 (56.1) 308.3 605.7
Retained profit for the financial period –––– 44.4 44.4
Shares repurchased and cancelled (1.4) – 1.4 – (78.3) (78.3)
Movements on reserves –––– (0.4) (0.4)
At 27 December 2005 39.1 311.3 3.1 (56.1) 274.0 571.4
Profit and loss reserve:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Profit and loss account excluding pension liability (18.2) 20.8
Pension liability (31.8) (38.5)
Profit and loss account including pension liability (50.0) (17.7)
75
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 29. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Profit for the financial period 111.4 149.8
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the period (net) 1.4 (7.5)
112.8 142.3
Dividends paid and proposed (69.6) (65.1)
Own shares purchased during period (78.3) (145.4)
Expense recognised in respect of share remuneration 2.2 1.2
Movement on reserves due to transfer of shares to recipients 2.4 –
Net reduction to equity shareholders’ funds (30.5) (67.0)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (as previously reported) 251.0 317.4
Prior period adjustment – deferred tax related to share
remuneration (note 1) (0.6) –
As restated 250.4 317.4
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 219.9 250.4
30. Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Operating profit before operating exceptional items 242.4 231.0
Depreciation 27.0 16.2
Profit on sale of fixed assets (0.2) (0.6)
Amortisation of EDIP and LTIP 2.2 1.2
Exceptional costs (22.2) –
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (1.6) 0.5
Increase in creditors 3.1 1.6
Defined benefit pension cost less cash contributions (8.7) (2.6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 242.0 247.3
Stanley Retail has generated a total net cash inflow since its acquisition of £4.3m, comprising an operating profit of £15.6m,
offset by exceptional costs incurred of £19.0m and with depreciation and impairment provisions added back of £7.7m. 
None of the other acquisitions detailed in note 18 generated significant cash flows during the period of their ownership by the
Group.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
76
Notes to the Financial Statements 31. Analysis of cash flows
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Returns on investments and servicing of finance:
Interest received 2.6 1.9
Interest paid (35.4) (25.2)
Premium paid on interest rate collar (0.6) –
Net cash outflow (33.4) (23.3)
Capital expenditure and financial investment:
Purchase of fixed assets (54.5) (28.2)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 0.7 0.9
Net cash outflow (53.8) (27.3)
Acquisitions and disposals:
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings and sundry LBOs (508.5) (3.9)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertaking 8.0 0.1
Disposal of LBOs net of costs 34.4 –
Net cash outflow (466.1) (3.8)
Financing:
Purchase of own shares (76.8) (145.5)
SAYE share redemptions 2.7 –
Repayment of guaranteed unsecured loan notes 2005 – (6.3)
Loan facilities drawn down 1,020.0 90.0
Loan facility repaid (500.0) –
New facility debt issue costs (4.6) –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 441.3 (61.8)
77
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 32. Analysis and reconciliation of net debt
Other
29 December non-cash 27 December
2004 Cash flow items 2005
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of net debt
Cash at bank and in hand 60.5 16.1 – 76.6
Debts due within one year (49.8) 50.0 (0.2) –
Debts due after more than one year (447.7) (565.4) (3.0) (1,016.1)
Total (437.0) (499.3) (3.2) (939.5)
Other non-cash items of £3.2m comprise amortised debt issue costs. 
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Increase in cash in the period 16.1 14.1
Cash inflow from increase in net debt (515.4) (83.7)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (499.3) (69.6)
Debt issue costs written off and amortised (3.2) (1.3)
(502.5) (70.9)
Opening net debt (437.0) (366.1)
Closing net debt (939.5) (437.0)
33. Share based payments
The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the period, all of which will be settled by
equity:
(a) Profit Share Plan (PSP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) encompassing awards made in the three years from 2003
to 2005;
(b) Save As You Earn share option scheme involving options granted after 7 November 2002 (SAYE) encompassing grants made
in the three years from 2003 to 2005;
(c) Float bonus;
(d) Executive Director Incentive Plan (EDIP); and
(e) Save As You Earn share option scheme involving options granted before 7 November 2002 (2002 SAYE) encompassing
grants made in 2002.
Details of these PSP , LTIP and SAYE schemes are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 21.
In accordance with the transition provisions included in FRS20, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all grants
after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 31 December 2003. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes items
(a) and (b) above. The total expense recognised (excluding employers’ National Insurance costs) in respect of these schemes was
£2.2m in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £1.2m).
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
78
Notes to the Financial Statements 33. Share based payments (continued)
(a) Profit Share Plan (PSP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The PSP provides conditional awards of shares dependent equally on the Group’s earnings per share growth and Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a three-year period as well as continued employment of the individual at the date
of vesting (awards are usually forfeited if the employee leaves the Group voluntarily before the awards vest). The LTIP provides
conditional awards of shares dependent exclusively on the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a three-
year period and continued employment of the individual at the date of vesting. In the case of both plans, if the options remain
unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the option lapses.
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Number Number
Outstanding at beginning of the period 2,287,528 1,749,011
Granted during the period 2,481,919 981,307
Forfeited during the period (27,437) (372,504)
Exercised during the period (6,147) (70,286)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4,735,863 2,287,528
Exercisable at the end of the period 10,470 –
As the PSP and LTIP are conditional awards of shares and therefore the recipients do not have to pay an exercise price,
the shares have, in effect, a zero cost exercise price. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards
exercised during the period was £5.76 (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £5.31).
The awards outstanding at 27 December 2005 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of 8.5 years (28 December
2004 – 8.6 years).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of these awards were as follows:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Weighted average share price at date of grant £4.16 £3.17
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil
Expected volatility 29% 31%
Expected life 3.5 years 3.5 years
Risk free interest rate 4.4% 4.5%
Expected dividend yield 3.3% 3.4%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the
option life where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002),
historical volatility has been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing
of the Company and ending on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic
price movements that arose immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted,
based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural
considerations. The value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account the market conditions applicable to the
option (i.e. TSR requirements) by applying a discount to the option value. This discount is calculated based on an estimate of the
probability of achieving the relevant condition.
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted under the PSP and LTIP schemes at the date of grant was £2.02 per
option (28 December 2004 – £0.94). The expense recognised (excluding employers’ national insurance costs) in respect of
relevant PSP and LTIP schemes in the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 was £1.1m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 –
£0.6m).
79
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 33. Share based payments (continued)
(b) SAYE scheme for grants made in the three years from 2003 to 2005 
Options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, which is open to all eligible employees, are based on a three, five or seven year
monthly savings contract. Options under the scheme are granted with an exercise price up to 20% below the share price when
the savings contract is entered into. The options remain valid for six months beyond the end of the relevant savings contract.
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
price price
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at beginning of the period 1,828,2812.62 1,262,604 1.76
Granted during the period 621,898 4.57 782,534 3.93
Forfeited during the period (200,887) (3.47) (215,114) (2.36)
Exercised during the period (3,534) (2.68) (1,743) (1.76)
Outstanding at the end of the period 2,245,758 3.08 1,828,281 2.62
Exercisable at the end of the period –– ––
The exercise price for the 2003, 2004 and 2005 SAYE schemes was £1.76, £3.93 and £4.57 respectively.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £5.42 (52 weeks
ended 28 December 2004 – £4.89). The options outstanding at 27 December 2005 had a remaining weighted average
contractual life of 3.0 years (28 December 2004 – 3.5 years).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of these options were as follows:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Weighted average share price at date of grant £3.81 £3.51
Weighted average exercise price £2.98 £2.56
Expected volatility 30% 31%
Expected life 4.7 years 4.6 years
Risk free interest rate 4.7% 4.8%
Expected dividend yield 3.2% 3.1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the option
life where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002), historical
volatility has been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing of the
Company and ending on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic price
movements that arose immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based
on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The weighted average fair value of the options granted under these SAYE grants at the date of grant was £1.23 per option
(28 December 2004 – £1.26). The expense recognised in respect of relevant SAYE grants in the 52 weeks ended 27 December
2005 was £1.1m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £0.6m).
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
80
Notes to the Financial Statements 33. Share based payments (continued) 
(c) Pre 7 November 2002 schemes
In accordance with the transition provisions included in FRS20, the Group has not recognised an expense in respect of all grants
before 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 31 December 2003. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes
options outstanding in relation to a float bonus, the Executive Director Incentive Plan (EDIP) and the 2002 SAYE Share Option
Scheme. The float bonus and EDIP were incentive arrangements for Messrs. Harding and Singer arising out of the flotation of
the Group. They were structured as zero cost options. The float bonus and 30% of the EDIP arrangement were exercised in the
52 weeks ended 28 December 2004. The remaining EDIP has now vested but has not been exercised by the period end. 
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise exercise
price price
Number £ Number £
Outstanding at beginning of the period 5,880,5931.41 7,581,833 1.14
Forfeited during the period (129,724) (1.80) (179,526) (1.80)
Exercised during the period (1,503,470)(1.80) (1,521,714) (0.03)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4,247,399 1.26 5,880,593 1.41
Exercisable at the end of the period 1,294,728 0.02 550,000 N/a
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £5.76 (28 December
2004 – £5.31). The options outstanding at 27 December 2005 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of 2.4 years
(28 December 2004 – 3.4 years).
34. Financial commitments
The Group had capital commitments as follows:
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Contracted but not provided for 21.5 28.7
The Company had no capital commitments at 27 December 2005 (28 December 2004 – £nil).
The Group has annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
27 December 2005 28 December 2004
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
Payments due within one year for leases which expire:
Within one year 2.9 0.1 2.6 0.1
Between two and five years 8.3 1.3 6.7 1.0
After five years 26.1 – 19.9 –
Total 37.3 1.4 29.2 1.1
The Company had no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases at 27 December 2005 (28 December 2004 – £nil).
81
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements 35. Related party transactions
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ not to
disclose transactions with companies within the Group, which are related parties.
During the period the Group made purchases of £23.4m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £18.6m) from Satellite
Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Group’s associated undertaking, SIS. At 27 December 2005 the amount payable
to Satellite Information Services Limited by the Group was £nil (28 December 2004 – £nil). 
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Notes to the Financial Statements
82
Notes to the Financial Statements 83
52 weeks 52 weeks
Before Exceptional ended ended
exceptional items 27 December 28 December
items 2005 2004
Total
£m £m £m £m
Turnover (amounts wagered) 10,746.1 – 10,746.1 8,287.7
Revenue
Existing operations 737.0 –737.0 722.1
Acquisitions 70.7– 70.7 –
807.7– 807.7 722.1
Cost of sales (176.5)– (176.5) (160.7)
Gross profit 631.2 –631.2 561.4
Other operating income 5.9– 5.9 4.3
Other operating expenses (394.7) (26.9) (421.6) (334.8)
Share of results of associate 2.6– 2.6 2.1
Operating profit
Existing operations 229.4(7.9) 221.5 233.0
Acquisitions 15.6(19.0)(3.4) –
245.0 (26.9) 218.1 233.0
Investment income 11.1 – 11.1 9.0
Finance costs (52.2)(2.4) (54.6) (35.7)
Profit before tax 203.9(29.3) 174.6 206.3
Tax (60.9) (0.6) (61.5) (57.4)
Profit for the period 143.0 (29.9) 113.1 148.9
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 29.0 36.3
Diluted 28.6 35.7
Pro-forma Consolidated Income
Statement (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Consolidated Income Statement (prepared in accordance with IFRS) 52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Loss on cash flow hedges (0.5) (0.3)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme (1.6) (10.7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 0.2 2.6
Net income recognised directly in equity (1.9) (8.4)
Transferred to income statement on cash flow hedges 1.4 2.6
Profit for the period 113.1 148.9
Total recognised income and expense for the period 112.6 143.1
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
84
Pro-forma Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense
(prepared in accordance with IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 27 December 28 December
2005 2004
£m £m
Non current assets
Goodwill 865.7 733.3
Other intangible assets 467.0 18.7
Property, plant and equipment 174.5 104.2
Interest in associate 3.4 2.9
Deferred tax assets 17.5 24.6
1,528.1 883.7
Current assets
Inventories 0.4 0.3
Trade and other receivables 20.4 15.4
Cash and cash equivalents 76.6 60.5
97.4 76.2
Total assets 1,625.5 959.9
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (87.0) (67.8)
Tax liabilities (56.7) (46.9)
Bank overdraft and loans – (49.8)
(143.7) (164.5)
Non current liabilities
Bank loans due after more than one year (1,016.1) (447.7)
Retirement benefit obligations (49.3) (55.3)
Other provisions (7.5) –
Deferred tax liabilities (160.3) (16.1)
(1,233.2) (519.1)
Total liabilities (1,376.9) (683.6)
Net assets 248.6 276.3
Equity
Called up share capital 39.1 40.5
Share premium account 311.3 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 3.1 1.7
Merger reserve (26.1) (26.1)
Own shares held (57.5) (59.3)
Hedging and other reserves (1.1) (1.7)
Retained earnings (20.2) 9.9
Total equity 248.6 276.3
85
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Consolidated Balance Sheet (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
Pro-forma Consolidated Balance Sheet
(prepared in accordance with IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Net cash from operating activities 4 156.6 164.7
Investing activities
Dividend from associate 2.1 –
Interest received 2.6 1.9
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.9
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (52.0) (18.5)
Purchases of betting licences (1.9) (0.6)
Expenditure on computer software (2.5) (9.7)
Acquisition of subsidiary (498.6) (3.2)
Disposal of LBOs net of costs 34.4 –
Net cash used in investing activities (515.2) (29.2)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares (76.8) (145.5)
SAYE share option redemptions 2.7 –
Dividends paid (66.6) (59.6)
Repayments of borrowings (500.0) (6.3)
New bank loans raised 1,020.0 90.0
New facility debt issue costs (4.6) –
Net cash used in financing activities 374.7 (121.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period 16.1 14.1
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 60.5 46.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 76.6 60.5
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
86
Pro-forma Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 1. Pro forma financial information for the year ended 27 December 2005
The Group is preparing for the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards as its primary accounting basis for the
period ending 26 December 2006. The Group’s date of adoption and transition will therefore be the 29 December 2004 as
comparative information will be prepared for the accounting period beginning on this date.
The pro-forma financial information for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 has been prepared for illustrative purposes
only. It has been prepared on the basis that the IFRS transition date is 31 December 2003. The actual transition date will be
29 December 2004. 
The pro-forma financial information has been extracted from the audited IFRS financial statements. These extracts do not
contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group in accordance with
IFRS. The full IFRS financial statements are published on William Hill PLC’s corporate information web site
www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
2. Basis of accounting
The financial information presented in this document has been prepared on the basis of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS), including International Accounting Standards (IAS) and interpretations issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB) and its committees, and as interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to the Group. These are
subject to ongoing amendment by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by the European Commission and are therefore
subject to possible change. As a result, information contained within the pro-forma IFRS financial statements will require
updating for any subsequent amendment to IFRS required for first time adoption or those new standards that the Group may
elect to adopt early.
On 19 November 2004, the European Commission endorsed an amended version of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement’ rather than the full version as previously published by the IASB. In accordance with guidance issued by the
UK Accounting Standards Board, the full version of IAS 39, as issued by the IASB, has been adopted in the preparation of this
financial information.
First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. The disclosures required by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of
International Financial Reporting Standards’ concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 5.
IFRS 1 sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS for the first time as the basis for preparing its
consolidated financial statements. Under IFRS 1 the Group will be required to establish its IFRS accounting policies as at
26 December 2006 and, in general, apply these retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of
transition, 29 December 2004. 
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exceptions to this general principle. The most significant of these are set out below,
together with a description in each case of whether an exception has been adopted by the Group.
Business combinations 
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations that took place
before the 30 December 2003. As a result, in the opening balance sheet, goodwill arising from past business combinations
amounting to £732.3m, remains as stated under UK GAAP at 30 December 2003.
Employee benefits 
The Group has recognised actuarial gains and losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at 30 December 2003. The Group
has recognised actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and
expense in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, issued on 16 December 2004.
Share-based payments
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ to all relevant share based payment transactions granted but not
fully vested at 31 December 2003.
87
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
Pro-forma Notes to the Financial
Statements (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 2. Basis of accounting (continued)
Financial instruments 
The Group has applied IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement’ for all periods presented and has therefore not taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 that
would enable the Group to only apply these standards from 28 December 2005. 
General 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. 
The accounting treatment for betting activity under IFRS is currently under discussion across the industry and the treatment
adopted in the pro-forma financial statements (as set out in note (a) on page 94) may require modification in the event that
further guidance is issued and as practice develops.
3. Presentation of financial information
The primary statements within the financial information contained in this document have been presented substantially in
accordance with IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. However, this format and presentation may require modification
in the event that further guidance is issued and as practice develops.
4. Net cash from operating activities
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
27 December 28 December
2005 2004 
£m £m
Operating profit 218.1 233.0
Adjustments for:
Share of result of associate (2.6) (2.1)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.3 15.3
Depreciation of computer software 2.7 0.9
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.2) (0.6)
Gain on disposal of LBOs (2.5) –
Cost charged in respect of share remuneration 2.2 1.3
Defined benefit pension cost less cash contributions (8.7) (2.6)
Movement in provisions 7.2 –
240.5 245.2
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (1.6) 0.5
Increase in payables 3.1 1.6
Cash generated by operations 242.0 247.3
Income taxes paid (49.4) (57.4)
Interest paid (36.0) (25.2)
Net cash from operating activities 156.6 164.7
Stanley Retail has generated a total net cash inflow since its acquisition of £4.3m, comprising an operating profit of £15.6m,
offset by exceptional costs incurred of £19.0m and with depreciation and impairment provisions added back of £7.7m.
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at
bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
88
Pro-forma Notes to the Financial
Statements (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 5. Explanation of transition to IFRSs
This is the first year that the Group has presented its financial statements under IFRS with comparatives. The following
disclosures are required in the year of transition. For the purposes of these financial statements, the last financial statements
prepared under UK GAAP were for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 and the date of transition to IFRS was taken to be
31 December 2003.
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2003 (date of transition to IFRS):
Effects of
transition to
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Goodwill 732.3 – 732.3
Other intangible assets a – 2.8 2.8
Property, plant and equipment a 101.0 (2.8) 98.2
Interest in associate 0.8 – 0.8
Deferred tax assets b,c,d,g 6.2 15.7 21.9
Total non-current assets 840.3 15.7 856.0
Inventories 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 15.7 – 15.7
Cash and cash equivalents 46.4 – 46.4
Total current assets 62.5 – 62.5
Total assets 902.8 15.7 918.5
Trade and other payables d,e,f (93.1) 31.3 (61.8)
Tax liabilities (48.1) - (48.1)
Bank overdraft and loans (45.9) - (45.9)
Bank loans due after more than one year (366.6) - (366.6)
Retired benefit obligations b,g (31.7) (13.9) (45.6)
Deferred tax liabilities c,i – (13.6) (13.6)
Total liabilities (585.4) 3.8 (581.6)
Net assets 317.4 19.5 336.9
Equity
Called up share capital 42.2 – 42.2
Share premium account 311.3 – 311.3
Merger reserve (26.1) – (26.1)
Own shares (5.0) – (5.0)
Hedging and other reserves d 2.1 (3.4) (1.3)
Retained earnings e,f,g,i (7.1) 22.9 15.8
Total equity 317.4 19.5 336.9
89
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS) 5. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 28 December 2004:
Effects of 
transition to 
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Goodwill h 736.2 (2.9) 733.3
Other intangible assets a,h – 18.7 18.7
Property, plant and equipment a 119.0 (14.8) 104.2
Interest in associate 2.9 – 2.9
Deferred tax assets b,c,d,g 5.9 18.7 24.6
Total non-current assets 864.0 19.7 883.7
Inventories 0.3 – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 15.4 – 15.4
Cash and cash equivalents 60.5 – 60.5
Total current assets 76.2 – 76.2
Total assets 940.2 19.7 959.9
Trade and other payables d,e,f (106.9) 39.1 (67.8)
Tax liabilities (46.9) – (46.9)
Bank overdraft and loans (49.8) – (49.8)
Bank loans due after more than one year (447.7) – (447.7)
Retired benefit obligations b,g (38.5) (16.8) (55.3)
Deferred tax liabilities c,h,i – (16.1) (16.1)
Total liabilities (689.8) 6.2 (683.6)
Net assets 250.4 25.9 276.3
Equity
Called up share capital 40.5 – 40.5
Share premium account 311.3 – 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 1.7 – 1.7
Merger reserve (26.1) – (26.1)
Own shares (59.3) – (59.3)
Hedging and other reserves d – (1.7) (1.7)
Retained earnings e,f,g,i (17.7) 27.6 9.9
Total equity 250.4 25.9 276.3
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
90
Pro-forma Notes to the Financial
Statements (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 5. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 27 December 2005:
Effects of 
transition to 
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Goodwill f,h 1,177.1 (311.4) 865.7
Other intangible assets a,h – 467.0 467.0
Property, plant and equipment a 188.7 (14.2) 174.5
Interest in associate 3.4 – 3.4
Deferred tax assets b,c,d,g – 17.5 17.5
Total non-current assets 1,369.2 158.9 1,528.1
Inventories 0.4 – 0.4
Trade and other receivables 20.4 – 20.4
Cash and cash equivalents 76.6 – 76.6
Total current assets 97.4 – 97.4
Total assets 1,466.6 158.9 1,625.5
Trade and other payables d,e,f (129.6) 42.6 (87.0)
Tax liabilities (56.7) – (56.7)
Bank overdraft and loans – – –
Bank loans due after more than one year (1,016.1) – (1,016.1)
Retired benefit obligations b,g (31.8) (17.5) (49.3)
Other provisions (7.5) – (7.5)
Deferred tax liabilities c,h,i (5.0) (155.3) (160.3)
Total liabilities (1,246.7) (130.2) (1,376.9)
Net assets 219.9 28.7 248.6
Equity
Called up share capital 39.1 – 39.1
Share premium account 311.3 – 311.3
Capital redemption reserve 3.1 – 3.1
Merger reserve (26.1) – (26.1)
Own shares (57.5) – (57.5)
Hedging and other reserves d – (1.1) (1.1)
Retained earnings e,f,g,i (50.0) 29.8 (20.2)
Total equity 219.9 28.7 248.6
91
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS) 5. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Notes to the reconciliation of equity
(a) Software classification – application software, which can be run independently from any specific hardware configuration, is
typically included within other intangibles under IFRS rather than tangible assets as is the norm under UK GAAP. The effect
of this is to reclassify software of £14.2m (28 December 2004 – £14.8m; 30 December 2003 – £2.8m) from tangible assets to
intangible assets. Total net assets are not affected by this adjustment.
(b) Deferred tax associated with pension liabilities – under IFRS deferred tax relating to the pension scheme cannot be netted
off against the pension liability as it is under UK GAAP. This has the effect of increasing the Group’s deferred tax asset by
£13.6m (28 December 2004 – £16.5m; 30 December 2003 – £13.6m) with a consequent increase in the net pension liability
presented. Net assets are not affected by this adjustment.
(c) Deferred tax offset – due to more restrictive rules on the ability to offset deferred tax liabilities and assets, the deferred tax
liabilities and assets are grossed up by £2.2m (28 December 2004 – £1.3m; 30 December 2003 – £0.6m).
(d) Financial instruments – all derivative instruments are required by IFRS to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
Under IFRS, hedge accounting for derivatives is only allowed where detailed documentation in accordance with IAS 39 is in
place. This allows the movements in fair values of the relevant derivative instrument (but not the related borrowings) to be
recognised directly in reserves and therefore not impact earnings. This issue will have no impact on the Group’s earnings as
acceptable hedge accounting documentation has been in place since 30 December 2003. However the balance sheet does
reflect a financial liability of £1.6m (28 December 2004 – £2.5m; 30 December 2003 – £4.8m) representing the fair value of
the relevant derivatives, as well as a related deferred tax asset of £0.5m (28 December 2004 – £0.8m; 30 December 2003 –
£1.4m) offset by corresponding entries in a new ‘hedging reserve’.
(e) Dividends – under IFRS dividends payable may only be recorded as a liability of the Group when a legal or constructive
liability has been incurred. This is likely to be when the dividend proposed by the Board is made public on the
announcement of the Group’s results. Currently under UK GAAP, dividends are recorded in the period to which they relate,
even if only proposed after the period end. This has the effect of increasing the net assets of the Group by the amount of
the proposed dividend of £46.1m (28 December 2004 – £43.1m; 30 December 2003 – £37.6m).
(f) Holiday pay – it is accepted practice under IFRS to provide for pay for holidays to which staff are entitled but which they
have not yet taken. This has resulted in the recognition of an accrual for holiday pay of £1.9m, £0.4m of which arises from
the Stanley acquisition and affects goodwill calculation (28 December 2004 – £1.5m; 30 December 2003 – £1.5m).
(g) Pensions – a difference arises in the valuation of the pension scheme assets under IFRS, because pension assets must be
valued using bid prices rather than using mid–market prices as is the convention under UK GAAP and there are also
differences in measuring the value of life assurance schemes. This results in an increase in the pension scheme liability of
£3.9m (28 December 2004 – £0.3m; 30 December 2003 – £0.3m) and a consequent adjustment to deferred tax assets of
£1.2m (28 December 2004 – £0.1m; 30 December 2003 – £0.1m).
(h) Acquisitions – the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ retrospectively to business combinations
that took place before 30 December 2003.
The Group has adopted IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ in full for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2004. This has resulted
in the recognition of additional intangible fixed assets of £452.8m (28 December 2004 – £3.9m) and related deferred tax
liabilities of £141.0m (28 December 2004 – £1.0m). Under UK GAAP the intangible fixed assets would have been recognised
in goodwill and the deferred tax liability would not have arisen.
(i) Deferred tax on properties acquired via business combinations – under IFRS, a tax timing difference of £12.1m
(28 December 2004 – £13.8m; 30 December 2003 – £13.0m) has been recognised in respect of properties previously
acquired via acquisitions.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
92
Pro-forma Notes to the Financial
Statements (prepared in accordance with
IFRS)
for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005 5. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of profit or loss for 52 weeks ended 28 December 2004:
Effects of 
transition to 
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Revenue a 8,287.7 (7,565.6) 722.1
Cost of sales a (7,726.3) 7,565.6 (160.7)
Gross profit 561.4 – 561.4
Other operating income 4.3 – 4.3
Other operating expenses (334.8) – (334.8)
Share of results of associate b 3.1 (1.0) 2.1
Operating profit 234.0 (1.0) 233.0
Investment income 9.0 – 9.0
Finance costs (35.7) – (35.7)
Profit before tax 207.3 (1.0) 206.3
Tax c (57.5) 0.1 (57.4)
Profit for the period 149.8 (0.9) 148.9
Reconciliation of profit or loss for 52 weeks ended 27 December 2005:
Effects of 
transition to 
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
Notes £m £m £m
Revenue a 10,746.1 (9,938.4) 807.7
Cost of sales a (10,114.9) 9,938.4 (176.5)
Gross profit 631.2 – 631.2
Other operating income 5.9 – 5.9
Other operating expenses (421.6) – (421.6)
Share of results of associate b 3.6 (1.0) 2.6
Operating profit 219.1 (1.0) 218.1
Investment income b 11.2 (0.1) 11.1
Finance costs (54.6) – (54.6)
Profit before tax 175.7 (1.1) 174.6
Tax c (64.3) 2.8 (61.5)
Profit for the period 111.4 1.7 113.1
93
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS) Notes to the reconciliation of profit or loss for 2004 and 2005
(a) Revenue and cost of sales – under IFRS revenue represents gains and losses on betting activity for all revenue streams. This
is different from UK GAAP where revenue from retail, telephone and internet sportsbook (including FOBTs, games on the
online arcade and other numbers bets) represents total amounts wagered by customers. The effect of this change is to
reduce both revenue and cost of sales by £9,938.4m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004: £7,565.6m ). This has no impact
on operating profit.
(b) Associate profit – under IFRS, the share of the associate’s result included in the Group’s operating profit is after a charge for
interest and tax. These items were shown within the Group’s interest and tax charges under UK GAAP. This has the effect of
reducing operating profit by £1.0m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £1.0m), representing interest income of £0.1m
(52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £nil) and the tax charge of the associate (see (c) below).
(c) Tax charge – the tax charge is £2.8m (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £0.1m) lower under IFRS compared to UK GAAP
reflecting a combination of: 
• £1.1m reduction (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £1.0m) arising from the different treatment of associate tax
highlighted in (b) above; and
• £1.7m reduction (52 weeks ended 28 December 2004 – £0.9m increase) reflecting a deferred tax movement on
properties acquired via business combinations, which are ignored under UK GAAP but provided for under IFRS. 
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash flow statement for 2005 and 2004
There are no significant adjustments between the cash flow statements produced under IFRS as against UK GAAP.
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pro-forma Notes to the Financial Statements (prepared in accordance with IFRS)
94 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
(restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Summarised results:
Turnover 10,746.1 8,287.7 5,945.8 3,365.3 2,452.2
Operating profit before 
exceptional items (including associates) 246.0 234.1 200.4 140.8 112.0
Operating profit after exceptional items
(including associates) 219.1 234.1 200.4 120.7 112.0
Profit on ordinary activities after exceptional
items and before taxation 175.7 207.4 169.5 31.8 27.3
Profit for the financial period 111.4 149.8 124.3 20.4 18.4
Summarised balance sheets:
Assets employed:
Fixed assets 1,369.2 858.1 834.1 827.9 796.0
Net current (liabilities)/assets (88.9) (121.5) (118.4) (83.5) 8.6
Creditors: amounts falling due after more 
than one year (1,016.1) (447.7) (366.6) (470.3) (851.2)
Provisions (12.5) ––––
Share of net liabilities of associate – – – (1.2) –
Pension liability (31.8) (38.5) (31.7) (28.0) (2.2)
Net assets/(liabilities) 219.9 250.4 317.4 244.9 (48.8)
Financed by:
Shareholders’ funds/(deficit) 219.9 250.4 317.4 244.9 (48.8)
Key statistics:
† EBITDA (£m) 269.8 251.5 221.7 158.8 128.6
Basic earnings per share (pre-exceptionals) 36.2p 36.5p 29.7p 16.6p 6.9p
Diluted earnings per share (pre-exceptionals) 35.7p 35.9p 29.3p 16.5p 6.9p
Dividends per share 18.3p 16.5p 12.5p 8.7p –
Share price – high £6.24 £5.68 £4.30 £2.87 –
Share price – low £4.85 £4.20 £1.93 £1.96 –
† EBITDA represents profit on ordinary activities before finance charges, tax, depreciation and amortisation and excludes
exceptional items and impairment of goodwill.
95
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Five year summary
Five year summary 
(prepared under UK GAAP) amusement with prize electronic slot machines into which customers insert coins to play games of chance; current UK
machines or AWPs regulations allow up to two AWPs in each LBO, each of which can pay cash prizes of up to £25
BAGS Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services Limited, a non profit making company set up by
various bookmakers, including William Hill
Company William Hill PLC
DCMS Department of Culture, Media and Sport
FOBTs fixed odds betting terminals, being self-service terminals situated in LBOs offering fixed odds
bets
Gambling Act the legislation which received Royal Ascent in 2005 regarding the modernisation of the laws
relating to betting and gaming within the UK
Gaming Board the Gaming Board for Great Britain, the regulatory body for casinos, bingo clubs, gaming
machines and larger lotteries (including all local lotteries but excluding the National Lottery)
gross profit tax or GPT a duty charged by the UK Government of 15% of a bookmaker’s gross win, introduced in
October 2001
gross win total customer stakes less customer winnings
horse racing levy a levy attributable to bets taken on horse racing and payable to the Horserace Betting Levy
Board, primarily for purposes of augmenting the prize money available for winning horses and
providing certain racecourse amenities
LBO licensed betting office
SIS Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited or its subsidiary Satellite Information Services
Limited, as the context requires
sportsbook bets accepted on sporting and other events
William Hill or the Group the Company and its subsidiaries, or any of them, as the context may require
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Glossary
96
Glossary William Hill PLC listed on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2002 and the share price on listing was 225p. Shareholders
can access the current share price at www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
To find the shop closest to you go to our shop locator at www.williamhillplc.co.uk.
Financial Calendar
Preliminary announcement 2 March 2006
Final ex-dividend date 3 May 2006
Record date for final dividend 5 May 2006
Annual General Meeting 18 May 2006
Payment date for final dividend 6 June 2006
Registrar
The Company’s registrar is Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU
(www.capitaregistrars.com). Telephone 0870 162 3100. 
Please contact Capita for advice regarding any change of name or address, transfer of shares or loss of share certificates.
Capita will also be able to respond to queries on the number of shares you hold and the payment details for dividends.
You may give instructions for your dividend to be used to purchase additional William Hill shares. Full details of the dividend
reinvestment plan (DRIP) can be found in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website (www.williamhillplc.co.uk)
under shareholder information and a form of mandate can be found within the downloadable forms section. Alternatively
contact Capita Registrars.
97
William Hill PLC – Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information ●
Internet Betting
Racing/Sports: www.williamhill.co.uk
Mobile Internet: www.williamhill.co.uk/wap/
Online Casino: www.williamhillcasino.com
Online Poker: www.williamhillpoker.com
●
Telephone Betting
Debit: 0800 44 40 40
Credit: 0800 289 892
●
Retail Betting
Approximately 2,180 shops throughout the British Isles
Customer Helpline: 08705 18 17 15
●
Corporate Website
www.williamhillplc.co.uk 1
William Hill PLC
Registered ofﬁce: Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, London N22 7TP
Tel: 020 8918 3600 Fax: 020 8918 3775
Reg no: 4212563 England
