 Annual Report and  
Accounts 2008 Retail
One of the UK’s largest bookmakers  
and telephone betting companies
2,300
The number of licensed betting offices 
operated by William Hill in the UK and Ireland
82%
The percentage of the Group’s gross win 
contributed by the retail channel
8,549
The average number of gaming machines 
available in William Hill shops in 2008, 
offering games such as roulette, blackjack 
and virtual racing
101
The number of shops opened, resited  
or extended in 2008
£24m
The amount invested in our retail estate  
in 2008 as part of a continuing estate 
development programme
Over-the-counter 
gross win (£m)
+1%
2007 2008
519.6
514.3
Gaming machines 
gross win (£m)
+10%
2007 2008
318.3
288.3
Operating profit 
(£m)
+4%
2007 2008
240.1
229.8 Online
One of the leading European online  
betting and gaming businesses
45%
The proportion of the global online betting 
and gaming market that is estimated to be 
generated in Europe, William Hill Online’s 
current primary market 
30 December 2008
The day William Hill Online was  
established through a combination  
of William Hill Interactive and assets, 
businesses and contracts acquired  
from Playtech
60
The number of new games launched  
on www.williamhill.com in 2008
3 December 2008
The day the new William Hill  
Sportsbook was launched, using  
the Orbis technology platform
www.williamhill.com
Sportsbook net 
revenue (£m)
+6%
42.0
39.5
Gaming net 
revenue (£m)
+13%
83.1
73.5
Operating profit 
(£m)
+7%
54.6
50.9
2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 Introduction
William Hill is one of the UK’s leading betting and gaming companies. Through  
our various channels – retail, telephone and online – we take around £15bn in  
bets and wagers a year and offer an expert service to all our customers.
We are one of the UK’s largest bookmakers and also operate in Ireland, with a total 
of approximately 2,300 shops that provide betting opportunities on a wide range 
of sporting and non-sporting events and, in the UK only, offer gaming machines. 
Our online business, William Hill Online, provides sports betting, casino games, poker, 
bingo, numbers betting and skill games via various websites and is one of the leading 
European online betting and gaming businesses. We are also one of the largest 
telephone betting businesses in the UK.
About this Annual Report 
This is the Annual Report for the year ended 30 
December 2008. It contains the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements in accordance with UK regulations. 
References to the Group and William Hill throughout  
this document relate to William Hill PLC and all of its 
subsidiary and associated undertakings. References  
to the Company are to William Hill PLC, the ultimate 
holding company. For further information on William Hill, 
please visit our website at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
Statements contained within this document may 
contain forward-looking comments, which involve  
risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or 
results or the actual performance of the Group to differ 
materially from those reflected or contemplated in such 
forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can 
identify such forward-looking statements by terminology 
such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘could’, ‘forecasts’, ‘expects’, ‘plans’, 
‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘estimates’, ‘predicts’, 
‘potential’ or ‘continue’. Forward projections reflect 
management’s best estimates based on information 
available at the time of issue. 01
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company Information
Financial Highlights
Business Review
Financial Highlights  01
Chairman’s Statement  04
Chief Executive’s Review  08
Our performance in 2008 14
Key performance indicators  18
Our operating environment  20
Our operations  22
Governance
Board of Directors  24
Directors’ Report  26
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Statement on Corporate Governance  38
Report of the Nomination Committee  43
Report of the Audit and Risk   
Management Committee  44
Corporate Responsibility Report  46
Financial Statements
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  53
Group Independent Auditors’ Report  54 
Group Financial Statements  56
Parent Company Independent 
Auditors’ Report  106
Parent Company Financial
Statements  107
Five-Year Summary  115
Company Information
Shareholder Information  116
Abbreviations and Glossary  116
Net revenue (£m)
+3%
2007 2008
963.7
Gross win (£m)
+3%
2007 2008
1,022.5 988.4
Profit on ordinary 
activities (£m)
-3%
2007 2008
278.6
286.7
Adjusted basic 
earnings per share 
(pence)
-4%
2007 2008
45.4
47.4
933.6
All numbers are on a pre-exceptional basis Business Review
One of the UK’s  
largest bookmakers
02
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Wide range of betting and gaming products
William Hill’s 2,300 shops make up around a 
quarter of the UK Licenced Betting Office (LBO) 
market. In our shops, we provide customers with 
access to real-time sports information and live 
race or match coverage via satellite on our  
multi-screen television system. While horse racing  
is still a popular betting product, we now offer 
odds on an extensive range of sports, including 
football, golf and cricket. Customers can also play 
roulette, blackjack and other games on machines, 
which account for around one third of total gross 
win from our shops.  03
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman’s Statement
Establishing a strong platform for growth
Charles Scott 
Chairman
04
The Board believes William Hill Online  
is well placed to capitalise on the 
significant growth projected to come 
from online betting and gaming over 
the next few years. Full integration will 
take up to nine months to complete 
but the team has already made  
good progress, including launching 
new poker and casino websites using 
Playtech’s software. Once integrated, 
we will be able to apply the skills of  
the specialised online marketing  
and customer management teams 
we acquired to all customers in the 
business and to cross-sell more 
effectively the full range of sports 
betting and gaming products that we 
offer, including the new Sportsbook.
The online channel is our preferred 
approach for targeting betting and 
gaming customers internationally as it 
is the most cost-effective mechanism 
for reaching large, geographically 
diverse customer bases. 
Whilst land-based expansion remains a 
longer term opportunity, we recognise 
that the current economic climate is 
making such capital-intensive, long-
term investments more challenging. As 
a result, we sold our Italian joint venture 
in July 2008. In Spain, we are now 
trading in 74 locations in Madrid and 
the Basque region and we are in 
discussion with Codere S.A (Codere), 
our joint venture partner in Spain, as  
to the future strategic direction of the 
joint venture.
Refinancing 
As previously highlighted, we have 
been in dialogue with our banks 
regarding our borrowing facilities, 
£1.2bn of which are due to mature  
in March 2010. At the time of 
publishing this Annual Report, we 
announced that William Hill has 
Our retail business, which accounts for 
82% of the Group’s gross win, delivered 
a strong trading performance in 2008 in 
spite of the challenging economic 
conditions. On a 52-week basis, gross 
win grew by 7% and operating profit by 
7%. We have achieved this growth by 
continuing to invest in the development 
of our LBO estate and by implementing 
various cost management measures 
that kept the underlying cost increase in 
the period to 3%. This helped to offset 
some of the additional costs from the 
introduction of Turf TV as a second 
supplier of television pictures from 
racecourses into the LBOs and the  
first full-year effect of extended  
winter opening hours.
Shortly after Ralph Topping’s 
appointment as Chief Executive in 
February 2008, we announced our 
intention to increase our focus on  
the growth opportunities in gaming 
and online gambling, having seen  
our leading position eroded over 
recent years. We achieved positive 
growth in our existing online business, 
delivering on a 52-week basis net 
revenue growth of 13%, operating 
profit growth of 10% and an 18% 
increase in active accounts.
More importantly, we established a 
strong platform for continued growth 
by addressing our key deficiencies  
in technology and capabilities. First,  
we launched our new Sportsbook on 
the industry-leading Orbis software 
platform, which offers customers 
significant improvements, such as 
richer site content and a full range  
of in-running betting opportunities. 
Second, we established William Hill 
Online as one of Europe’s leading 
online betting and gaming businesses 
by combining our existing online sports 
betting and gaming business with 
certain assets acquired from Playtech.
William Hill achieved a robust trading 
performance in 2008, with Group gross 
win of £1,022.5m, net revenue of 
£963.7m and operating profit of 
£278.6m. Gross win and net revenue 
were 3% higher than in 2007, a 53-week 
period, and 6% higher on a 52-week 
comparison with 2007. Operating profit 
was 3% lower than the 53-week period 
in 2007 and 1% lower on a 52-week 
comparison with 2007. Basic earnings 
per share excluding exceptional  
items was 45.4p.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
“ The Board remains confident about  
the long-term prospects for the business,  
both in the UK retail market and in the  
online market.” 
05
to focus our estate development 
programme on new LBO sites and  
re-sites where we expect to achieve 
the best rates of return.
Board of Directors
During the course of the year, there 
were three changes to the Board  
of Directors. 
In February 2008, Ralph Topping was 
appointed Chief Executive, having 
previously held various positions within 
the Group, including Group Director, 
Operations, with responsibility for the 
Group’s UK-based operations, Retail 
Operations Director and Internet 
Director. He joined William Hill in  
1973 and had been a member  
of the Board since April 2007. 
In November 2008, Ashley Highfield 
was appointed a non-executive 
director. He is currently Managing 
Director and Vice President of 
Consumer and Online UK at Microsoft 
and has wide-ranging experience  
and knowledge of existing and 
emerging technologies.
In December 2008, Ian Spearing, 
Corporate Affairs Director, retired  
from the Board and the Group. On 
behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Ian for his dedicated service 
and contribution during his 18 years 
with the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank all our 
colleagues for their hard work in  
2008 and for delivering a strong 
performance in challenging 
circumstances.
Charles Scott
Chairman
earnings, with the intention of moving 
towards 2.0 times dividend cover over 
time. The Board expects to pay an 
interim and final dividend for 2009  
in line with this dividend policy. The 
dividend policy is aimed at ensuring 
that shareholders continue to benefit 
from the successful growth and strong 
cash flows of the Group.
Outlook
The Board remains confident about 
the prospects for the business, both in 
the UK retail market and in the online 
market. While it is unclear how the 
current economic climate might 
affect our business in the coming 
months, performance in 2008 as a 
whole, in the fourth quarter of the year 
and in 2009 to date has been resilient. 
We believe that this resilience is 
supported by the broader 
geographical base of the retail 
business across the UK, the expanding 
product range offered across our 
channels, the widening customer 
base, and the fact that betting  
and gaming remain low-ticket, 
entertainment-led activities.
Given the current economic climate, 
we are focused on maintaining tight 
cost control and capital management. 
During 2009, we expect to see further 
benefits accruing to our retail business 
from the cost initiatives implemented in 
2008, including the new staffing model. 
At the same time, we will continue to  
invest in William Hill Online to achieve 
growth in revenue and overall 
customer numbers. 
We reduced our capital expenditure 
significantly during 2008 and intend  
to maintain this lower level of 
expenditure during 2009. In addition, 
our capital expenditure approval 
process has become more stringent. 
During the coming year, we intend  
entered into new bank facilities that, 
under a forward-start mechanism, and 
together with our £250m existing bank 
facility, will provide aggregate funding 
to the Group of £838.5m. In addition, 
the Board announced that it proposes 
to raise approximately £350m (net  
of expenses) by way of a fully 
underwritten 1 for 1 Rights Issue. 
The Board’s decision to issue equity 
has been driven by the dramatic 
deterioration in credit markets since 
August 2007, which has resulted in 
banks seeking to reduce their overall 
lending to borrowers. 
Notwithstanding the Group’s 
continued trading resilience, strong 
cash generation and recent actions 
to reduce our funding requirements 
from £1.45bn to approximately £1.2bn 
and the reduction in net debt of 
£86m to £1,022m during 2008, the 
current credit market conditions have 
not made it possible for William Hill to 
refinance the Group’s existing bank 
facilities in full in the bank market. 
Together, the refinanced bank facilities 
and the proceeds from the fully 
underwritten rights issue will result in  
a significant decrease in the Group’s 
net debt with an improved facility 
maturity profile, and result in a 
strengthened balance sheet and 
improved credit ratios. The Board 
believes that, with the new bank 
facilities and the Rights Issue, William 
Hill will have a robust capital structure 
and appropriate financial flexibility to 
enable the Group to continue to 
execute our growth strategy.
Dividend
William Hill will not be paying a final 
2008 dividend. Following the Rights 
Issue, the Board expects to adopt a 
dividend policy based initially on a 
dividend cover of 2.5 times underlying  06
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
Launching our  
new Sportsbook
In-running betting online
In December 2008, we launched our new online 
Sportsbook, www.williamhill.com, which can offer 
customers a full-range of in-running betting. The 
state-of-the-art site features increased levels of 
content, including form, news, reviews, live radio 
commentary and live streaming of many leading 
sports, and provides more betting opportunities 
on more events, more quickly than ever before. 
Customers also benefit from six language options 
and more local currency betting. 07
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Ralph Topping 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
Taking transformational steps
Offering a broad product range
In our shops, we offer an extensive 
range of betting opportunities, 
including UK horse racing, greyhound 
racing, football, overseas horse racing 
and numbers betting. Since 2001, 
when a change in the tax regime 
made lower-margin products more 
commercially attractive, we have 
been able to offer a greater range  
of products on gaming machines  
in our shops, which now generate 
around one third of the gross win  
from the high street retail channel.
Capitalising on opportunities created 
by fiscal and regulatory changes
We have successfully grown our retail 
channel by capitalising on fiscal  
and regulatory changes and we  
will continue to adapt to such 
opportunities as they arise. To date, 
these include responding to the 
change from a turnover-based tax 
system to a gross profit tax system by 
expanding the number of products 
offered by gaming machines  
and responding to the growth 
opportunities of the internet.
Managing our costs
Given the relatively high fixed costs 
necessary to operate this business 
effectively, changes in gross win  
can have a significant effect on  
operating profit. We, therefore, place 
considerable emphasis on cost 
control. For example, we have  
recently adopted a more efficient  
LBO staffing model and undertaken a 
detailed analysis of the effectiveness 
of extended winter evening opening. 
Our retail business
William Hill is one of the UK’s largest 
bookmakers and also operates in 
Ireland, with a total of approximately 
2,300 LBOs that provide betting 
opportunities on a wide range of 
sporting and non-sporting events  
and, in the UK only, offer gaming 
machines. In this consolidated market, 
we aim to maximise the significant 
cash generation from this business  
by growing gross win while carefully 
managing costs.
We believe we can continue to grow 
our retail business by: 
• developing our retail estate;
• offering a broad product range; and 
•  capitalising on any opportunities 
created by fiscal and regulatory 
changes. 
Developing our estate
Through an ongoing development 
and modernisation programme, we 
continue to expand our estate in  
the UK and to upgrade the location, 
facilities and size of our LBOs in  
order to deliver incremental growth. 
We operate a rigorous process for 
prioritising capital expenditure for 
both maintenance of the estate and 
value-creating investments in order to 
achieve our target returns on capital. 
Overview
Our strategy aims to deliver 
sustainable earnings growth and  
value for shareholders by:
•  Continuing to enhance the  
earnings of our core retail business 
by maximising organic growth 
opportunities and effectively 
managing costs;
•  Exploiting the growth opportunity  
in online betting and gaming; and
•  Selectively pursuing value-
enhancing acquisitions.
“ The core of our business is an 
extensive retail estate of around 
2,300 shops that generate around 
82% of our total net revenue.”
8 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Our online business
Initially, we benefited from a first-mover 
advantage in this market and built  
a market-leading position in the UK. 
During the last two years, our lead was 
eroded and we lost market share as a 
result of aggressive competition. Since 
coming in as Chief Executive, one of 
my key changes has been to refocus 
the business on this opportunity and,  
in October 2008, we announced a 
significant step forward in the shape  
of an agreement with Playtech Ltd. 
Under this agreement, we acquired 
certain assets, contracts and 
businesses from Playtech, including 
around 30 gaming websites, a 
customer services operation and  
an online marketing organisation.  
The transaction combined two highly 
complementary businesses. We 
brought a strong brand, sports betting 
expertise and an established UK 
customer base and profit stream.  
The acquired assets brought online 
marketing and customer retention 
expertise, an extensive affiliate 
network to drive customers to our 
websites and an established European 
customer base and profit stream. 
We have an option to acquire 
Playtech’s interest in William Hill  
Online on an independent fair-value 
basis, exercisable at either four years 
or six years after completion of the 
original acquisition.
“ The internet-based gaming and 
betting market is expected to continue  
to grow at double-digit rates for at least 
the next three to five years.”
We believe that, following this 
transaction, William Hill Online has 
several strengths that can support 
significant growth, including: 
•  a large, geographically diverse 
customer base; 
•  improved marketing and  
customer management; and 
•  an extensive affiliate network.
In addition, we expect William Hill 
Online to benefit from Playtech’s 
improved poker and casino software, 
in relation to which we have entered 
into a software agreement for a 
minimum of five years. We expect this 
software to provide greater liquidity  
for poker and to support activities to 
increase customer retention, customer 
reactivation and player lifetime values. 
We launched a new casino website 
and a new poker website on the 
highly liquid Playtech poker network  
in January 2009.
Our strategy for William Hill Online is to:
•  integrate our existing business and 
the acquired assets within six to nine 
months of completion of the 
acquisition on 30 December 2008; 
•  seek to retain customers for a longer 
period by applying the specialised 
online marketing and customer 
management skills and by cross-
selling the full range of sports betting 
and gaming products;
•  exploit the improved Sportsbook, 
poker and casino offerings, which 
were launched in December 2008 
and January 2009; and
•  acquire new customers in the  
UK and Europe and, over time,  
expand our customer base in  
other key countries.
Acquisitions
We believe we can continue to  
deliver further shareholder value  
from selective acquisitions, although 
the scale of our existing UK retail 
channel is likely to preclude further 
substantial acquisitions in this area.  
We have a good track record, 
including the acquisition of Stanley 
Leisure’s UK retail betting operations  
in 2005, which established William Hill 
as the leading UK retail betting and 
gaming company by number of LBOs, 
and numerous, smaller bolt-on LBO 
acqusitions. The Playtech, transaction 
announced in October 2008, 
established William Hill Online as  
one of the leading European online 
betting and gaming businesses. 
9 Chief Executive’s Review
Q&A – The first year
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 10 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11
Business Review
Ralph Topping was appointed  
Chief Executive of William Hill in 
February 2008. He reflects on his  
first year in charge.
Q  How would you describe the  
last year?
A  Our task is to give our customers 
what they want, when they want it, 
where they want it. For me, the last 
year has been about putting the 
company back on that track. I’ve 
taken big decisions. I scrapped  
our internal IT development project 
and moved our Sportsbook to  
Orbis’ platform. I pulled out of Italy 
because that wasn’t going to go 
anywhere quickly.
And I turned the focus on gaming  
as a driver of growth. Our future is  
in betting and gaming, which led  
us to do the deal with Playtech that 
established William Hill Online. We 
are no longer just a bookmaker. 
Between our internet sites and the 
machines in our betting offices, 
gaming accounted for 37% of  
our net revenue in 2008.
Q  What’s changing at William Hill 
with you in charge?
A  After 37 years in this company, I 
believe I know what can put us at 
the top of the league, and brains 
and talent are a big part of that.  
I’m a team builder so I’ve been 
changing structures, moving people 
around and recruiting new people. 
The biggest change came with the 
deal we did with Playtech, which 
brought us brands and brains. To 
give you some idea of what I mean, 
we had 10 marketing people in 
Leeds but the marketing team in 
Israel that we acquired has 160 
people. If you want internet brains 
these days in abundance, you  
go abroad.
Q  How resilient do you think  
your business will be during  
this recession?
A  We would never claim to be 
‘recession proof’ but there are 
reasons why we would expect 
trading to be resilient. In the last 
recession in 1991, our top line 
declined by 7% but we’re a very 
different business today – we have  
a wider geographical base, a  
more extensive product range, a 
broader customer base and we’re 
competing against fewer shops. 
We’re also online and have gaming 
machines in the shops. Plus, it should 
not be forgotten betting is a low-
ticket form of entertainment for a  
lot of people in the UK. In the shops, 
the average bet is around £8 but  
the most frequent bets are around 
£2 to £3. 
Q  What was the thinking behind  
the deal with Playtech?
A  Before the Playtech deal, we had 
the top flight brand, the betting 
expertise, established UK customers 
and good profits. But, on the 
downside, our e-gaming capacity 
was marginal and we were weak 
internationally. That’s why I was 
determined to change the business.
The assets we acquired from 
Playtech have given us websites, 
terrific online marketing and 
customer retention expertise, a  
vast affiliate network that will drive 
customers to our websites and an 
established European customer 
base and profit stream. On top  
of that, we get a continuing 
partnership and software deal  
with Playtech, the world’s largest 
gambling software provider, and  
the high-quality, deep-liquidity poker 
network we needed. We’ve put 
those assets together with the things 
we already do online to create a 
new entity – William Hill Online, one of 
the leading European online gaming 
and sports betting businesses. 
I was in at the start of the internet  
at William Hill. I’ve always said I 
wanted us to be a top three 
European player in online betting 
and gaming, and the clear leader 
among the traditional UK operators. 
Having been there at the beginning, 
I am passionate about turning 
around the fortunes of this part of  
our business. 
“ We are no longer just a bookmaker. Between 
our internet sites and the machines in our 
betting offices, gaming accounted for 37%  
of our net revenue in 2008.” The launch of William Hill Online
William Hill Online is now one of Europe’s leading 
betting and gaming businesses following the 
combination of our existing online sports betting and 
gaming products with assets acquired from Playtech 
in return for a 29% stake in the new online business. 
As a result of this transaction, which we successfully 
completed in December 2008, William Hill Online 
has a market-leading position in Europe, a larger, 
geographically diverse customer base, improved 
marketing and customer management, and an 
extensive affiliate marketing network. 
Business Review
One of Europe’s leading  
online betting and 
gaming businesses
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12 Business Review Business Review
13
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14
Business Review
Our performance in 2008
Gross win Net revenue
Operating  
profit before 
exceptional  
items
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Retail 837.9 802.6 790.7 759.3 240.1 229.8
Interactive 136.7 124.5 125.1 113.0 54.6 50.9
Telephone 39.8 53.0 39.8 53.0 5.9 16.1
Other 8.1 8.3 8.1 8.3 1.2 1.1
JVs - - - - (5.8) (2.6)
Associates - - - - 2.9 3.3
Central overheads - - - - (20.3) (11.9)
Total 1,022.5 988.4 963.7 933.6 278.6 286.7
Operating review
The following table provides a summary of the key financial results from William Hill’s principal activities:
Retail
With approximately 2,300 LBOs in the 
UK and Ireland, William Hill is a leading 
operator in the UK retail betting and 
gaming industry. 
Gross win from the retail channel grew 
in 2008 by 4% to £837.9m compared 
with the 53-week period in 2007 (7%  
on a 52-week basis). Gross win from  
the over-the-counter (OTC) business 
increased by 1% (3% on a 52-week 
basis). Gross win from machines 
increased by 10% (12% on a 52-week 
basis). Pre-exceptional operating  
profit increased by 4% (7% on a 52-
week basis) to £240.1m, reflecting the 
growth in gross win and tight control of 
underlying costs that mitigated some 
of the impact of significant additional 
costs incurred in the year. Average net 
profitability per shop increased 3%  
to £104,469.
Football betting performed 
particularly well in spite of a poor  
Euro 2008, with favourable results in  
the second half of the year leading  
to an unusually high gross win margin. 
This more than offset the effect of a 
poor Royal Ascot and unfavourable 
horse racing results. 
Overall, the growth in gross win was 
achieved through an increase in the 
average number of LBOs trading, the 
continued development of the estate, 
an increase in the number of gaming 
machines and the full-year impact of 
extended opening hours. 
Through our LBO estate development 
and modernisation programme, we 
continue to expand our geographical 
footprint and to upgrade the location, 
facilities and size of our LBOs in order  
to drive incremental growth in the 
channel. We operate a rigorous process 
for prioritising capital expenditure for 
both maintenance of the estate and 
value-creating investments in order to 
achieve our target returns on capital. 
During 2008, we invested £23.6m in 
estate development and completed 
226 projects, including opening 44 
new LBOs and extending or re-siting  
57 existing shops. At 30 December 
2008, we had 2,271 LBOs in the UK and 
48 in the Republic of Ireland (2007: 
2,245 in the UK and 49 in the Republic  
of Ireland). 
The average number of machines in 
the estate increased to 8,549 (2007: 
8,382) in the period as a result of the 
expansion of the LBO estate. Machines 
continue to perform strongly, delivering 
an average net contribution per 
machine per week of £529 (2007: 
£466). This performance is the result  
Change to reporting
Historically, in addition to the “Amounts wagered” and 
“Revenue” numbers required under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS), we have provided a “gross win” 
number for the Group and the principal channels. Gross 
win is used internally as a key performance indicator of  
the Group’s business and the Board believes presentation 
of gross win enhances an investor’s understanding of  
the Group’s underlying financial condition and results  
of operations. It is calculated as the total amount that  
the Group retains from customers after paying out any 
winnings but before deducting VAT payable on income 
from gaming machines.
However, an alternative number, net revenue, has 
become widely reported among online betting and 
gaming companies. This is defined as gross win less VAT 
on gaming machines and fair-value adjustments for  
free bets, promotions and bonuses, which are used 
extensively in online operations but less so in retail. Given 
the growing importance of William Hill Online to the 
Group and to bring us in line with industry practice, the 
Board has decided to report net revenue for the Group 
and William Hill Online from this point forward. For clarity, 
we will continue to report gross win for the retail channel.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
of various initiatives, including 
improved marketing, renegotiation  
of the contract with our existing 
supplier of machines and introduction 
of a second supplier. This flexible 
supply arrangement is delivering the 
benefits we expected by encouraging 
product innovation and improved 
service performance.
Overall costs in the channel increased 
by 6% compared with the 53-week 
period in 2007 (8% on a 52-week basis). 
The principal increases were in staff 
costs, including those resulting from 
the opening of new LBOs and the first 
full-year impact of extended opening 
hours in winter, and the cost of adding 
a second supplier of television 
pictures, Turf TV , into the LBOs. The cost 
of Turf TV and extra content to support 
the extended opening hours 
increased the cost of pictures and 
data in our LBOs by 40%.
However, excluding these additional 
costs, the underlying cost base in  
the channel increased by 3% as a  
result of various initiatives we have 
implemented to control cost inflation. 
Using data gathered through our 
electronic-point-of-sale (EPOS) system, 
we have been able to introduce a 
more efficient staffing model and to 
adapt the extended winter opening 
hours within the estate in 2008. The 
EPOS system has fundamentally 
changed the role of front-end staff,  
and enables them to interact with the 
customers more and has allowed us to 
change the staffing model to benefit 
from efficiencies. This technology also 
supported a detailed analysis of the 
impact of extended winter opening 
hours in 2007, when the entire estate 
was open until 9.30 p.m. Since 
extended opening hours is a significant 
additional cost, we have used the 2007 
data to target more effectively where 
this was applied in 2008. Around 80% of 
the LBO estate is now open until 9.30 pm. 
Interactive/Online
Our online business, William Hill 
Interactive, achieved positive growth 
in 2008, delivering an 11% increase  
in net revenue to £125.1m (13% on a 
52-week basis) and pre-exceptional 
operating profit of £54.6m, up 7% (10% 
on a 52-week basis). This was the result 
of several steps we took to address the 
under-performance seen in 2007. 
Having taken the decision to 
terminate the in-house NextGen 
technology programme, we freed  
up significant IT resources that we 
concentrated on delivering new 
content to build our gaming offering 
and introduced 60 new games during 
the year. We also improved cross-
selling of products, as many of our 
existing gaming customers arrive  
via our Sportsbook, and increased 
advertising and marketing activities to 
attract new customers. As a result, we 
grew the number of active accounts 
by 18% from 432,000 at the start of the 
year to 510,000 at 30 December 2008. 
This strong performance was reflected 
across both betting and gaming. Net 
revenues from gaming increased by 
13% to £83.1m (16% on a 52-week 
basis), led by a particularly strong 
performance in bingo and skill games, 
which increased by 169% during the 
year. Casino also continued to grow, 
achieving a 15% increase compared 
with 2007. Net revenue from poker 
declined by 21%, reflecting the lack  
of liquidity on our existing platform.  
The launch of a new site on the 
Playtech software and highly liquid 
iPoker network in January 2009 is a 
significant step foward in returning this 
business to growth. Sportsbook net 
revenues increased by 6% to £42.0m 
(9% on a 52-week basis) after we 
made particular efforts to improve 
performance by improving site 
content, offering keener pricing to 
attract customers and more actively 
managing our customer base. 
Recognising, however, that our ability 
to grow the Sportsbook was restricted 
by the constraints of the legacy 
technology on which it operated, we 
re-launched the Sportsbook on Orbis’ 
technology platform in December 
2008 and expect to see further growth 
in 2009 as a result. The new site has 
several significant benefits, including:
•  richer content, such as streaming  
of live television coverage and radio 
commentary of sporting events; 
•  a full range of in-play betting 
opportunities, whereby customers 
can place bets on multiple potential 
occurrences during a live sporting 
event such as a football match;
•  six language options; and 
•  more local currency betting. 
This project was completed on time 
and on budget. We intend to add 
more functionality in 2009 and to 
increase further the number of  
in-running betting markets we offer. 
Creation of William Hill Online
Even with these improvements in place, 
there remained areas of weakness  
in our online business, including the 
affiliate management system, poker 
liquidity and online marketing. The 
business had lacked continuous 
investment in previous years and we 
recognised that, while we could build 
these capabilities organically over  
a period of time, it was preferable to 
put them in place faster so that we 
could capitalise more quickly on  
the continuing growth in the online 
betting and gaming market.
The result was a transaction with 
Playtech Ltd that we announced  
on 20 October 2008 and, on its 
completion on 30 December 2008,  
the creation of William Hill Online. 
Through this transaction, we acquired 
certain assets, businesses and 
contracts from Playtech, in return for 
which Playtech received a 29% equity 
interest in the new business, William  
Hill Online. We have an option to 
acquire Playtech’s interest in William 
Hill Online on an independent fair-
value basis, exercisable at either four 
years or six years after completion  
of the original acquisition. 
This transaction combined two highly 
complementary businesses to create 
one of the leading European online 
betting and gaming businesses. Our 
existing interactive business brought  
a strong brand, sports betting expertise 
and an established UK customer  
base and profit stream. The acquired 
assets brought online marketing and 
customer retention expertise, an 
extensive affiliate network designed  
to direct customers to the Group’s 
websites and an established European 
customer base and profit stream.  
As a result of the transaction, 
approximately 160 marketing services 
employees based in Israel and 
approximately 110 customer services 
employees based in Bulgaria have 
joined William Hill Online. Historically,  
in comparison with our interactive 
business, these teams have achieved 
a lower acquisition cost per customer,  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16
Business Review
Our performance in 2008
higher customer lifetime values and  
a higher cross-selling performance, 
and we intend to apply these 
capabilities to the entire customer 
base. The affiliate network acquired 
from Playtech numbers more than 
70,000, compared with our existing 
network of approximately 5,000. 
We also entered into a software 
agreement with Playtech for a 
minimum of five years, which will 
enable us to benefit from Playtech’s 
improved poker and casino software.  
In mid-January 2009, we launched 
new William Hill-branded casino and 
poker websites using Playtech’s 
software. Our new poker site is part of 
Playtech’s highly liquid iPoker network, 
which is the third largest poker network 
in the world and the largest poker 
network that does not accept 
customers from the US.
Integration of the acquired assets with 
our existing business is expected to be 
completed within six to nine months of 
completion of the transaction and is 
progressing well. We have established 
the management team and the joint 
venture Board. We intend to reorganise 
parts of the online operations in the 
coming months to improve further  
our operating efficiency. This is likely  
to involve relocating around 90 jobs, 
primarily relating to the Sportsbook, 
from the UK to other countries where 
William Hill Online’s operations are 
based. During the first quarter of 2009, 
we will also put in place the systems 
that will enable us to connect to the 
70,000-strong affiliate network and to 
apply its marketing capability to all 
William Hill Online websites.
Telephone
William Hill, we believe, has one of  
the largest telephone-based betting 
businesses in the UK, with approximately 
131,500 active customers as at 30 
December 2008 (2007 – 146,000). This 
channel contributes approximately 4% 
of Group net revenue. Although some 
migration of customers to the internet 
has occurred, telephone betting still 
appeals to a core group of customers 
who prefer to speak to an individual 
when placing their bet.
In 2008, our Telephone channel 
generated gross win of £39.8m, which 
represents a 25% decrease on 2007 
(23% on a 52-week basis) and pre-
exceptional operating profit of £5.9m,  
a decrease of 63% (62% on a 52-week 
basis). This was the result of some 
unfavourable horse racing results  
and losses in relation to high-staking 
customers and a reduction in the 
number of customers. We are, however, 
continuing to see growth in areas such 
as football betting and we have taken 
steps during 2008 to address the overall 
decline, including changing 
management and adjusting staffing 
patterns to provide a 24-hour service. 
During 2009, we will be implementing  
a marketing campaign to promote  
the advantages of the service and will 
continue to focus on strict cost control 
to ensure that this channel continues  
to contribute profits to the Group. 
International
In 2007, we established joint-venture 
agreements with Codere to explore 
the potential to establish land-based 
operations in Italy and Spain.
In July 2008, we announced the sale  
of the entire issued share capital of 
our Italian joint venture, William Hill 
Codere Italia Srl (WHCI) to INTRALOT 
International Holdings Limited. The 
gross consideration agreed was 
� 5.5m, which was shared equally 
between the Group and our joint 
venture partner, Codere. The sale 
followed a strategic review of WHCI 
within the Italian sports betting market. 
WHCI was initially set up as a joint 
venture to enter the Italian horse and 
sports betting market following a 
tender process in Italy for sports and 
horse race betting in 2006, in which 
the company was awarded 57 
licences. The number of retail betting 
licences won by WHCI was insufficient 
in scale to provide an attractive long-
term return. Options to grow within 
Italy through the acquisition of either 
existing or new licences were explored 
but the cost of acquisitions within  
the existing uncertain regulatory 
framework made further investment 
unattractive. This sale resulted in a loss 
on disposal of £1.2m being reflected  
in the financial statements, in addition 
to operating losses of £1.6m incurred  
in the first six months of the year.
In Spain, where we have a joint venture 
with Codere, progress has been made 
in establishing operations in Madrid and 
the Basque Country, with 44 locations 
trading at the end of the year. Rollout 
has continued in 2009 and trading is 
now being conducted in 74 locations. 
Following the substantive investment of 
amounts originally committed by each 
party, we are in discussions with Codere 
as to the future strategic direction  
of the joint venture and levels of 
investment expected to be required to 
develop the business in Spain. In light of 
this and as a result of the deteriorating 
economic conditions in Spain, we have 
reviewed the carrying value of our joint 
venture and recorded an impairment 
charge of £5.4m against the book 
value of our investment in Spain.
Regulation
Since September 2007, the Gambling 
Commission has been responsible  
for implementing and policing the 
detailed regulations, licence conditions 
and guidance that govern gambling in 
Great Britain. We have worked actively 
with the Gambling Commission since  
its establishment and support its 
objective of regulating gambling in the 
public interest by keeping crime out  
of gambling, ensuring that gambling  
is conducted fairly and openly, and 
protecting children and vulnerable 
people from being harmed or 
exploited by gambling.
In March 2008, the Department of 
Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) 
asked the Gambling Commission  
to prioritise identifying what further 
research could be done to 
understand the impact of high-stake, 
high-prize gaming machines on 
problem gamblers. In a preliminary 
report, the Gambling Commission  
has reported to the DCMS that there 
was no general agreement in the 
available research from Britain and 
other jurisdictions about how much 
these high-stake, high-prize gaming 
machines cause gamblers to become 
problem gamblers. The Gambling 
Commission is due to report back  
to the DCMS in full in June 2009.
In January 2009, the DCMS published  
a consultation paper proposing the 
introduction of a statutory levy on 
licensed operators under the Gambling  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Act 2005 to be used to fund research 
into, education about and the 
treatment of problem gambling. This is 
currently funded through a voluntary 
levy on all gambling operators. William 
Hill has always paid its full contribution. 
However, this has not been the case 
throughout the industry and the 
DCMS’s consultation is exploring 
whether to make the levy compulsory. 
William Hill supports the voluntary levy 
and is working hard to ensure that the 
existing voluntary regime is retained. 
The 12-week consultation period ends 
in March 2009.
Financial review
Gross win and net revenue
Gross win and net revenue in 2008 
were £1,022.5m and £963.7m, 
respectively (2007 – £988.4m and 
£933.6m). Both increased by 3% 
compared with 53 weeks in 2007  
and by 6% on a 52-week comparison. 
The increase was attributable to the 
growth of the retail and interactive/
online channels and was partially 
offset by a decrease in gross win in  
the telephone channel. 
Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes taxes, levies and 
royalties relating to the operation of  
a betting and gaming company such 
as horse racing levy, greyhound racing 
levy, gross profit tax on the Group’s 
gross win, Amusement Machine 
Licence Duty payable on gaming 
machines and royalties to third parties 
for software. Costs of sales decreased 
by 2% to £166.2m (2007 – £170.4m).
Net operating expenses
Net operating expenses, excluding 
exceptional items but including 
operating income, for the Group  
were £516.0m, an increase of 8%. A 
significant proportion of this increase 
relates to new costs associated with  
a full year of extended opening hours 
and the introduction of Turf TV as a 
second supplier of television pictures 
from race meetings into the LBOs.
Staff costs, which represented 
approximately half of our total costs, 
increased by 8%, primarily as a result  
of the full-year impact of extended 
opening hours and an increase in the 
average number of LBOs trading. The 
underlying cost increase included an
inflation-based pay award and the 
rebasing of the LBO staff bonus 
scheme. 
The increase in operating expenses 
also reflected increases in rent and 
rates, in part driven by an increase in 
average LBO size and the average 
number of LBOs trading, an increase 
in depreciation costs as a result of 
increased investment in the LBO 
estate and IT systems, and an increase 
in advertising and marketing costs  
in the retail and online channels. 
Other operating income
Other operating income in 2008 was 
£6.9m, which includes revenues from 
the rental of properties and vending. 
This was lower than in 2007 as 2007 
included the profit on disposal of  
part of our stake in SIS.
Exceptional operating expense
There were exceptional operating 
expenses of £10.8m in the period, 
including £4.0m for reorganisation costs 
resulting from the Board’s decision in 
2007 to terminate an internal IT 
development programme in favour of 
establishing our new Sportsbook on the 
Orbis platform, £1.4m of integration 
costs for William Hill Online and £5.4m 
for the impairment of our investment in 
a joint venture with Codere in Spain. 
Share of results of associates  
and joint ventures
These relate to the Group’s share of 
profit from its associate SIS and our 
share of losses in respect of joint 
ventures in Spain and Italy. During  
2007, we sold part of our holding in SIS, 
reducing our share of profits. Our share 
of results from the joint ventures with 
Codere in Spain and Italy was a loss of 
£5.8m. This was higher than the loss of 
£2.6m recorded in 2007 reflecting a 
longer trading period in the start-up 
phase of the Spain joint venture.
Exceptional items
We recorded exceptional items 
totalling £88.0m in 2008. This included: 
£86.4m profit on the sale of 29% of 
William Hill Online to Playtech in  
return for the assets acquired from 
Playtech; £2.8m profit on the sale- 
and-leaseback of 14 LBO properties;  
and a £1.2m impairment recognised 
on disposal of our interest in the joint 
venture with Codere in Italy. 
Finance costs
Net finance costs in 2008 were £62.5m 
(2007 - £63.3m) which is in line with 
2007 when adjusted for the additional 
week in 2007. 
Taxation
Tax on profit was £59.3m in the year 
(2007 - £51.8m). The Group’s effective 
tax rate reduced to 27% as a result of 
the reduction in the headline rate of 
UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% 
from 1 April 2008. Going forward, the 
Board expects the Group’s effective 
tax rate to reduce further as a result  
of a greater proportion of operating 
profit coming from online activities 
based outside the UK.
Earnings per share
Basic pre-exceptional earnings per 
share has decreased to 45.4p against 
47.4p in 2007. On a post-exceptional 
basis, basic earnings per share rose to 
67.3p against 44.7p in 2007. 
Cashflow and net debt
The Group generated net cash inflow 
from operating activities before 
financing and tax of £307.4m, a 
reduction of £3.3m or 1.1% on 2007. 
This decrease was a result of a lower 
pre-exceptional operating profit. 
We invested £58.3m in capital 
expenditure in 2008, including £23.6m 
in our LBO estate development 
programme and £15.1m in the  
new Sportsbook. We paid £46.5m  
in net debt service costs, £38.1m  
in corporation tax and £80.8m  
in dividends. 
Net debt for covenant purposes 
reduced to £1,022.1m as at  
30 December 2008 (1 January 2008  
- £1,108.2m). William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18
Business Review
Key performance indicators
A comparison of KPIs in the 2008 and 2007 financial years is shown below: 
Group KPIs 2008 Actual 2007
1
 Actual
Growth in net revenue 3% 6%
Growth in gross profit 4% 4%
Growth in operating expenses 8% 8%
Net interest expense £62.5m £63.3m
Interest cover (EBIT before exceptionals: net finance costs) 4.5x 4.5x
Effective tax rate (excluding exceptional items and associate income) 26.6% 25.2%
Gross win percentage by channel
OTC 18% 17%
Telephone 7% 10%
Net revenue percentage by channel
Sportsbook 7% 6%
Operating margin by channel
2
Retail 30% 30%
Interactive 44% 45%
Telephone 15% 30%
Average profit per LBO £104,000 £101,000
Average net contribution per machine per week £529 £466
Average profit per active Interactive customer £107 £118
Average profit per active Telephone customer £45 £110
Net debt: EBITDA
3
3.2 3.4
1
 2007 is a 53-week period.
2
  Operating margin by channel is based on operating profit divided by net revenue.
3
 Net debt is before offset of finance fees, excludes client cash and includes third party bank guarantees. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
The Board sees earnings per share 
growth as the key indicator of the 
Group’s success in delivering on its 
objectives of sustainable earnings 
growth and enhancing shareholder 
value. The KPIs used by the Board  
in monitoring earnings per share 
growth are as follows: 
•  Gross win (represents total customer 
stakes less customer winnings);
•  Net revenue (represents gross win 
less fair-value adjustments for VAT  
on machines, online bonuses, free 
stakes, etc.);
•  Gross profit (represents net  
revenue less cost of sales);
•  Operating expenses;
•  Interest charges and cover; and
•  Effective tax rate.
The Board also utilises a range of 
measures designed to determine 
performance at a channel and 
product level, the more important  
of which are: 
•  Gross win and/or net revenue 
percentage by channel; 
•  Operating margin by channel  
and by product; 
•  Average profit per LBO;
•  Average profit per active telephone/
interactive customer where profit is 
pre-exceptional operating profit as 
shown in note 2 of the Group 
financial statements and an active 
customer is defined as one who has 
placed a bet with their own money 
in the last 12 months; and
•  Return on incremental capital 
invested (for example, in relation  
to investment in the retail estate,  
the Group seeks returns on capital 
invested of 20% on new licences, 
15% on resites and extensions and 
10% on refurbishments).
To assess the capital structure, the 
Board focuses on the ratio of net  
debt to earnings before interest, 
taxation, depreciation amortisation 
and exceptional items, which is 
managed to ensure an efficient 
balance sheet and is a key driver  
of overall distribution policy. 
In addition to these financial 
indicators, a number of non-financial 
indicators is also used, including 
numbers of betting slips processed 
and the number of active customers  
in the remote channels. The Board  
also monitors a number of KPIs to 
ensure that the Group is meeting its 
corporate and social responsibilities. 
This is further discussed in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report. 
Targets for certain KPIs are set on an 
annual basis as part of the Group’s 
operational objectives for the coming 
year having regard to historic levels, 
expected new developments and  
the Group’s strategy.
In 2008, adjusted EPS before 
exceptional items decreased 4.2% to 
45.4 pence. Growth in gross win and 
net revenue was in line with internal 
targets. Both gross win and net revenue 
exceeded the levels achieved in the 
comparative period but operating 
profit was lower due to factors 
explained in the ‘Our performance  
in 2008’ on pages 14 to 17. Growth in 
operating expenses was managed 
within our expectations. Operating 
margins were at acceptable levels for 
the retail and online businesses but fell 
below expectations for the telephone 
business. At the time of publishing this 
Annual Report, the Board announced 
a refinancing, including a proposed 
rights issue, that would reduce the 
Group’s capital structure from 3.2 times 
net debt to EBITDA around 2.1 times. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 20
The UK betting and gaming industry
•  9,000 LBOs operating in the UK  
and Ireland.
•  240,000 gaming machines  
in the UK.
•  £5.4bn in gross win from the UK  
and Ireland LBO market.
The online industry
•  $15bn in gross win generated by 
online betting and gaming globally.
•  4% of global betting and  
gaming industry.
•  Market expected to grow at  
11% per annum to $25bn in 2012.
Industry overview
Historically in the UK, bets on horse  
and greyhound racing could only  
be placed at the race track, by post  
or via the telephone. The off-course 
betting market was established  
in 1961 when the Government 
legalised off-course betting shops.  
The number of LBOs grew rapidly, 
reaching a peak in the 1970s  
when there were approximately 
16,000. Since then, the sector has 
experienced consolidation and a 
reduction in the number of LBOs. 
Traditionally, the core betting  
products in LBOs were UK horse and 
greyhound racing and multiple-event 
accumulator bets. An increased level 
of customer spending on betting and 
gaming along with the attraction of 
new customers into the LBOs has been 
attributed in part to an increased 
variety of products, the introduction  
of gaming machines, the growth of 
betting on other sporting events, 
particularly football, and changing 
social attitudes to gambling. 
Online gambling has grown rapidly 
since it was established in the 1990s 
and is widely expected to continue  
to be the principal driver of growth for 
the global gambling industry. The level 
of growth in the market has created 
competition as an increasing number 
of operators compete for market 
share. Growth of online gaming was 
originally led by customers resident  
in the US using non-US operators. 
However, in October 2006 the US 
government passed the Unlawful 
Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, 
which prohibits the transfer of funds 
from a financial institution to an 
internet gambling site in certain 
circumstances. The introduction of  
this law resulted in many companies 
withdrawing from the US market.
The European online betting and 
gaming market is the principal focus  
of William Hill Online. Increased 
broadband penetration and 
changing social attitudes towards 
betting and gaming are widely 
expected to drive growth in the 
European online gambling market. 
The regulatory environment
All of William Hill’s betting and gaming 
operations are subject to regulation, 
with different rules applying for 
different operations and jurisdictions.
In Great Britain, where the majority of 
our operations are based, the betting 
and gaming industry is regulated under 
the provisions of the Gambling Act 
2005, which was fully implemented 
from 1 September 2007. Our LBOs, 
telephone operations and some online 
gaming operations are regulated by 
the Gambling Commission of Great 
Britain. Each LBO in Great Britain is 
licensed to have up to four category 
B2 or B3 gaming machines. 
In order for us to operate as a  
licensed betting operator in Great 
Britain, we are issued with three 
licence types: operating licences, 
personal management licences  
and premises licences. The Gambling 
Commission has issued a series of 
licence conditions and codes of 
practice with which operators must 
comply and we have policies and 
procedures in place that seek to 
ensure that we comply with the  
terms and conditions of our licences.
Although the regulatory regime  
for land-based gambling operations  
is fairly well established in many 
countries, the gambling laws in such 
countries will not necessarily have 
been amended to take account of 
the internet and the ability to offer 
gambling products and services 
online. Consequently, there  
is uncertainty as to the legality of 
online gambling in countries. In several 
countries local regulators are willing  
to license and regulate local and 
often state-owned operators but 
prohibit foreign operators.
Business Review
Our operating environment
Product split of online betting and 
gaming industry
• 32% Betting
• 21% Casino
• 20% Poker
• 20% Lotteries
• 5% Bingo
• 2% Skill games William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
We analyse jurisdictional risk and, 
where necessary, seek independent  
legal advice concerning the state  
of gambling laws in particular 
jurisdictions. We use this advice to 
modify the basic approach on a  
case-by-case basis and, based on  
the relevant jurisdiction, undertake 
procedures in order to mitigate the  
risk. We have systems and controls  
in place that seek to ensure we do  
not offer gambling products via the 
internet into certain jurisdictions from 
which we have determined we do  
not wish to accept transactions.  
These systems and controls include 
monitoring and analysing information 
provided by potential customers’ 
registered addresses and of customers’ 
payment methods. In particular, the 
Group does not accept bets from 
customers in the US.
Competition
We face competition primarily from 
other bookmakers, online betting 
exchanges and other online 
operators but we do not believe  
that other gambling establishments, 
namely casinos and bingo halls, 
represent significant competition. In 
the online marketplace, competition 
has intensified and is expected to 
continue to intensify as new operators 
enter the market and existing 
operators improve and expand  
their product offerings. Overall, the 
competitive environment remains 
subject to change depending on 
regulatory and technological 
developments.
William Hill’s principal competitors  
in the UK retail market are Ladbrokes 
and Coral, and, in the UK telephone 
betting market, Ladbrokes, Coral and 
the Tote. There are also a number of 
international telephone operators that 
compete with us from outside the UK.
About the Gambling Commission
The Gambling Commission of Great Britain is authorised by the Gambling  
Act 2005 (the Act) to act as the central regulatory body for gambling. It  
has a duty to permit gambling where it is reasonably consistent with the 
pursuit of the three licensing objectives set out in the Act: 
•  to prevent gambling from being a source of crime or disorder, being 
associated with crime or disorder or being used to support crime;
•  to ensure that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way; and 
•  to protect minors and other vulnerable persons from being harmed  
or exploited by gambling.
In our online operations, we face 
competition from a large number of  
UK-based bookmakers (including 
Ladbrokes and Coral) and BetFair as 
well as other operators based in the UK 
and overseas (including PartyGaming, 
Paddy Power, 888.com and bwin) that 
have entered, and continue to enter, 
the online market specifically targeting 
the UK and Europe. In certain markets 
outside the UK, we compete with 
companies that may have more brand 
recognition than the William Hill brand, 
which is strongest in the UK. There are 
relatively low barriers for a new 
company to enter the online market 
but we believe that it is difficult for new 
competitors to achieve significant 
market share without a substantial 
infrastructure, for instance sports 
betting expertise, marketing and 
customer relationship management. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 22
Business Review
Our operations
Key external relationships
(a) Suppliers
William Hill relies on a number of key 
suppliers that provide products and 
services to the Group. Within William 
Hill Online, Playtech and Cryptologic 
Inc. support our casino and poker 
offering. In addition, Orbis’ technology 
platform has been used to launch  
our new online Sportsbook, which 
went live in December 2008. 
In the retail channel, our most 
significant relationships are with 
Leisure Link (the UK operating division 
of Inspired Gaming Group plc) and 
Global Draw Limited, both of which 
supply gaming machines to our LBOs 
in Great Britain. SIS, in which we have  
a shareholding, and Turf TV are the 
main providers of television pictures, 
audio and data into the Group’s  
LBOs. We also have the right to screen 
television coverage of races from 
various horse and greyhound tracks 
via the Bookmakers Afternoon 
Greyhound Services Limited.
We believe that such resources help  
to secure the Group’s position at the 
forefront of the betting and gaming 
industry and ensure it is well placed  
to compete and develop its business 
in the future. Our customers and 
employees are key to our success  
and our Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) Report on pages 46 to 52 
provides further information on  
our policies and practices in these 
areas, as well as details of other  
key CR issues for the Group.
Our strengths
In operating the William Hill 
business, we use a number of  
assets and resources that are not 
otherwise reflected in our financial 
statements, including:
•  a long-established, trusted and 
widely recognised brand;
•  a market-leading position in UK 
retail betting with a high-quality 
estate of LBOs;
•  a market-leading and growing 
online channel;
•  a track record of profit growth, 
tight management of costs and 
strong cash flow generation;
•  a track record of innovation and 
profitable adaptation to regulatory, 
fiscal and technological change;
•  an effective risk management 
system; and
•  a strong management team  
with significant gambling industry 
experience and a workforce of  
over 16,000 trained employees.
(b) Government and industry bodies
William Hill operates in a regulated 
environment where the potential risks 
identified previously include adverse 
changes to the regulatory and tax 
regimes. The Group, maintains both  
on its own and via trade associations 
an ongoing dialogue with the 
Department for Culture, Media and 
Sport (DCMS) and HM Treasury as well 
as with the Gambling Commission.
The Government and the Commission 
have identified responsible gambling 
as a key area of focus and we have  
a regular dialogue with DCMS, the 
Gambling Commission, GamCare,  
the Responsibility in Gambling Trust 
and trade associations in this area.  
We also have arrangements, via 
relevant trade associations, for alerting 
sports regulatory bodies to unusual 
betting patterns.
The Group is a major contributor  
to the horse and greyhound racing 
industries via the statutory levy and 
voluntary levy respectively.
For information on our relationships 
with our employees, please see  
the Corporate Responsibility report  
on page 46 to 52.
Risk and uncertainties
The Board routinely monitors risks  
that could materially and adversely 
affect William Hill’s business, financial 
condition and results of operations. 
The key risks are listed on the  
opposite page.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Risks relating to the betting and gaming industry 
•  Increases in taxation and levies.
•  Existing or potential laws and regulations in jurisdictions 
from which the Group accepts bets and wagers.
•  The existence and/or enforcement of laws and 
regulations relating to the offer of betting and gaming 
products and services or the advertisement of such 
products and services via the internet.
•  Regulation by certain authorities for the granting  
of licences and other approvals in each of the 
jurisdictions in which William Hill operates.
•  Impact of relationships with governmental authorities 
and the principal bodies of sport and event industries.
•  Potentially significant losses with respect to individual 
events or betting outcomes.
•  Increases in sports-related payments.
•  The impact of sports schedules.
•  Technological change, particularly online.
•  Economic conditions.
•  Competition from other gambling operations.
•  Negative publicity surrounding the gambling industry.
Risks relating to the Group
•  Ability to integrate the acquired Playtech assets 
effectively and to realise all or any of the anticipated 
benefits of the establishment of William Hill Online.
•  Impact of the Group’s financial leverage and ability  
to service its debt.
•  High dependence on technology and advanced 
information systems, which may fail or be subject  
to disruption.
•  Impact of regulation regarding the use of personal 
customer data.
•  Dependence on third parties for the operation  
of our business.
•  Reliance on the experience and talent of key 
personnel and on our ability to recruit and  
retain qualified employees.
•  Impact of a failure to determine accurately the odds 
at which William Hill will accept bets in relation to any 
particular event and/or any failure of the Group’s risk 
management processes.
•  Dependence on card payments.
•  Infringement of our intellectual property by third  
parties or claims of infringement of third parties’ rights.
•  Dependence on maintaining and enhancing  
our brand.
•  The current deficit in the defined benefits section  
of the Group’s pension plan.
•  Impact of any fall in revenue, particularly given  
the Group’s relatively high fixed costs base as a 
proportion of our total costs.
•  Failure to detect the fraudulent activities of customers.
•  Impact of currency fluctuations and hedging activities. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 24
Board of Directors
The William Hill team
Left to right
1  Simon Lane  
Group Finance Director
2  David Edmonds 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
3  David Allvey  
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
4  Ralph Topping  
Chief Executive
5  Ashley Highfield 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
6  Thomas Murphy  
General Counsel &  
Company Secretary
7  Charles Scott  
Chairman
8  J M Barry Gibson  
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Charles Scott (60)
Chairman
Responsibilities 
Chairman of the Board, best practice 
corporate governance
Board committees 
Nomination Committee (Chairman), 
Corporate Responsibility and Regulated 
Issues Committee
Current directorships 
InTechnology PLC (Non-executive director).
 Emcore Corporation (Non-executive 
director). Flybe Group Limited  
(Non-executive director)
Former roles 
Chairman, Saatchi & Saatchi PLC.
Chairman, Cordiant Communications  
Group PLC. Chairman, Robert Walters PLC.
Non-executive director, adidas-Salomon 
AG. Senior Independent Non-executive 
director, TBI PLC. Chief Financial Officer,  
IMS International
Qualifications Chartered Accountant
Year of appointment 2002, appointed 
Chairman January 2004
Ralph Topping (57)
Chief Executive
Responsibilities 
The Group’s overall strategic direction, 
the day-to-day management and 
profitability of the Group’s operations
Board committees 
Corporate Responsibility and Regulated 
Issues Committee
Former roles 
Various roles within William Hill PLC
Year of appointment 
2007, appointed Chief Executive in  
February 2008
Simon Lane (46)
Group Finance Director 
Responsibilities 
Finance, strategic planning, investor  
relations, security and internal audit
Former roles 
Finance Director, Center Parcs (UK) Group plc.
Group Finance Director, Albert Fisher Group plc.
Director of Corporate Finance, Safeway plc.
Financial Controller, Mars Confectionery
Qualifications Chartered Accountant
Year of appointment 2006
David Allvey (63)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board committees 
Audit and Risk Management Committee 
(Chairman), Nomination Committee,
Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Costain Group PLC (Chairman). Intertek 
Group PLC (Non-executive director). Thomas 
Cook Group PLC (Non-executive director). 
Arena Coventry Ltd (Chairman)
Former roles 
Group Finance Director, BAT Industries PLC. 
Group Operations Officer, Zurich Financial 
Services PLC. Group Finance Director, 
Barclays Bank PLC. Non-executive director, 
McKechnie Group PLC. Non-executive director, 
Resolution Group PLC. Member of the UK 
Accounting Standards Board. Member  
of International Accounting Standards 
Insurance Group. Chairman of the Fiscal 
Committee of the 100 Group of UK  
Finance Directors
Qualifications Chartered Accountant
Year of appointment 2002
David Edmonds, CBE (64)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board committees
Corporate Responsibility and Regulated 
Issues Committee (Chairman), Audit and  
Risk Management Committee, Nomination 
Committee, Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Hammerson plc (Non-executive director).
Wincanton plc (Deputy Chairman)
Other roles
Chairman, Legal Services Board.
Chairman, NHS SBS Ltd. Trustee, Social Market 
Foundation. Board Member, Keele University 
Science & Business Park Ltd
Former roles 
Director General of Telecommunications, 
Oftel. Board Member, Office of 
Communications. Board Member, English 
Partnerships. Managing Director, Group 
Central Services, National Westminster 
Group PLC. Chief Executive of the  
Housing Corporation
Qualifications BA (Hons), University of Keele
Year of appointment 2005
J M Barry Gibson (57)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Responsibilities 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
undertaking duties as identified in the 
Combined Code
Board committees
Remuneration Committee (Chairman),
Audit and Risk Management Committee,
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
National Express Group Plc (Senior 
Independent Director). Homeserve  
PLC (Non-executive director)
Other roles
Chairman and Trustee Retail Trust (charity)
Former roles 
Group Chief Executive, Littlewoods Plc. 
Group Retail Director, BAA Plc. Non-
executive director, Limelight Plc. Non-
executive director, Somerfield PLC
Year of appointment 2002
Ashley Highfield (43)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board committees 
Corporate Responsibility and Regulated 
Issues Committee
Current directorships 
Managing Director and Vice President  
of Consumer and Online UK at Microsoft
Other roles  
Member of BAFTA, a Fellow of the  
Royal Society of Arts and a Director  
of the British Film Institute
Former roles 
CEO of Project Kangaroo – the proposed 
three-way joint venture between the BBC,  
ITV and Channel 4. Director, New Media & 
Technology and a member of the executive 
board and management board at the BBC.
Managing Director of Flextech Interactive 
Limited and an executive board member  
of Flextech plc
Qualifications Chartered Engineer
Year of appointment 2008
Thomas Murphy (40)
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Responsibilities 
Legal, secretariat and regulatory
Former roles 
General Counsel & Company  
Secretary, RHM plc. General Counsel,  
The Automobile Association
Qualifications Solicitor
Year of appointment 2007 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 26
Governance
Directors’ Report
The directors present their Annual 
Report on the activities of the Group, 
together with the Financial Statements 
and Auditors’ Report, for the 52 weeks 
ended 30 December 2008.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group 
during the year continued to be the 
operation of LBOs and the provision of 
telephone and internet online betting 
and gaming services. The subsidiary and 
associated undertakings principally 
affecting the profits or net assets of  
the Group are listed in note 14 to the 
Financial Statements.
Business Review
For a fair review of the Group’s business 
during the year, a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties it faces 
and the position of the Group at the 
end of the year, see the following:
Pages
Strategy 08-09
Review of 2008 14-19
Financial performance, KPIs 14-19
Sector information 20-21
Corporate Governance 26-42
Corporate Responsibility 46-52
Key relationships 22, 47-49
Risks and uncertainties 23
Financial risk management 84-86
Results and dividends
The Group’s profit on ordinary activities 
after taxation and exceptional items for 
the year was £234.0m (53 weeks ended 
1 January 2008 – £157.4m). The directors 
recommend that no final dividend be 
paid to ordinary shareholders for the 52 
weeks ended 30 December 2008 (2007 
15.5 pence per share). An interim 
dividend of 7.75 pence per share was 
paid on 5 December 2008 (2007 7.75 
pence per share).
Directors
The directors who served during  
the year and up to 27 February  
2009 comprise:
Charles Scott  Non-executive 
Chairman 
Ralph Topping Chief Executive 
Simon Lane   Group Finance 
Director 
Ian Spearing  Executive Director  
(resigned 31 
December 2008)
David Allvey   Independent  
Non-executive Director
Barry Gibson   Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
David Edmonds  Independent  
Non-executive Director
Ashley Highfield  Independent  
Non-executive Director  
(appointed 17 
November 2008)
Details of committee membership  
are set out on page 25. Details of the 
directors’ interests are set out in note  
1 to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements.
Directors’ and Officers’  
liability insurance
Pursuant to Article 232 of the Articles  
of Association and subject to the 
provisions of the Companies Act  
1985, the directors and officers of the 
Company shall be indemnified out  
of the assets of the Company against 
liability in defending proceedings, 
whether civil or criminal, in which 
judgment is given in their favour or  
in which they are acquitted or in 
connection with any application in 
which relief is granted to them by  
the court from liability for negligence, 
default, breach of duty or breach of 
trust in relation to the affairs of the 
Company. In addition, the Group has 
purchased and maintains Directors’ 
and Officers’ insurance cover against 
certain legal liabilities and costs for 
claims incurred in respect of any act or 
omission in the execution of their duties.
Directors proposed for re-election
Simon Lane and David Edmonds retire 
by rotation at the next Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) and offer themselves 
for re-election. Ashley Highfield, who 
was appointed by the Board as a 
director on 17 November 2008, will 
retire at the AGM and, being eligible, 
offers himself for re-election. Please 
refer to page 25 for biographies of  
the current directors. 
Directors’ conflicts of interests
At the Company’s AGM held on  
15 May 2008, shareholders approved 
amendments to the Company’s 
Articles of Association, enabling  
the Board to authorise conflicts or 
potential conflicts of interests.  
The amended Articles of Association 
permit the Board to consider and, if it 
sees fit, to authorise situations where  
a director has an interest that conflicts, 
or may possibly conflict, with the 
interests of the Company. The Board 
has a formal system in place for 
directors to declare conflicts and  
for these to be considered for 
authorisation by those directors who 
have no interest in the matter being 
considered. In deciding whether  
to authorise such conflicts the non-
conflicted directors are required to 
act in the way they would consider 
would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Group.
Supplier payments policy
The Group does not have a formal 
code on payment practice but it  
is the Group’s policy to settle terms  
of payment with suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each 
transaction, to ensure that suppliers 
are made aware of the terms of 
payment and to abide by the terms of 
payment. Trade creditors of the Group 
at 30 December 2008 were equivalent 
to 17 days’ purchases (1 January 2008 
– 15 days’ purchases), based on the 
average daily amount invoiced by 
suppliers during the year.
Charitable contributions 
During the year, the Group made 
charitable donations of £773,000  
(53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 - 
£581,000), principally to industry-related 
charities serving the communities  
in which the Group operates.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 27 February 2009, the Company 
had been notified, in accordance with 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, of 
the notifiable interests in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company set out 
in the table below.
Percentage
Name of holder  shareholding
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company 9.46
FIL Limited 5.12
BlackRock Inc. 5.06
FMR LLC 5.03
Legal & General Group Plc 3.97
Lloyds TSB Group Plc  3.50
Standard Life Investments Ltd 3.08 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Where not provided elsewhere in this 
Directors’ report, the following provides 
the additional information required  
for shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the Takeovers 
Directive into English law.
The Company has one class of  
share capital, ordinary shares. All the 
ordinary shares rank pari passu. Details 
of the ordinary share capital can be 
found in note 26 to the Group financial 
statements. There are no restrictions  
on transfer of the ordinary shares in  
the Company other than: certain 
restrictions which may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations  
(for example, insider trading laws); and 
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority whereby 
certain employees of the Company 
require the approval of the Company  
to deal in the ordinary shares. On a 
show of hands at a general meeting of 
the Company, every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote and on a poll, 
every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share held. 
Voting rights for the ordinary shares held 
in treasury are suspended. The notice  
of the AGM specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and appointing 
a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the meeting. 
The rules governing the appointment 
and replacement of Board members 
and changes to the articles of 
association accord with usual English 
company law provisions. Subject to 
the Company’s Memorandum of 
Association, the Articles of Association, 
and statute or subordinate legislation  
for the time being in force concerning 
companies and affecting the  
Company, and directions given by 
special resolution, the business of the 
Company shall be managed by the 
Directors, who may exercise all the 
powers of the Company.
Change of Control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements 
contain provisions that in some cases 
automatically require prepayment and 
in others grant the lender discretion to 
require prepayment of the loans on a 
change of control. in others grant the 
lender discretion to require prepayment 
of the loans on a change of control. The 
Group’s framework agreement with 
Playtech Software Limited dated 19 
October 2008 also contains a change 
of control provisions. With the exception 
of these agreements, there are no 
significant agreements outside the 
ordinary course of business to which the 
Company is a party which take effect, 
alter or terminate in the event of a 
change of control of the Company . 
There are no agreements providing for 
compensation for the Directors or 
employees on a change of control.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by 
disabled people are always fully  
and fairly considered, bearing in  
mind the aptitude and ability of the 
applicant concerned. In the event  
of members of staff becoming 
disabled, every effort is made to 
ensure that their employment within 
the Group continues and that 
appropriate training is arranged.  
It continues to be the policy of  
the Group that the training, career 
development and promotion of 
disabled people should, as far as  
is feasible, be identical to that of  
other employees.
Employee consultation
The Group places considerable value 
on the involvement of its employees 
and has continued to keep them 
informed on matters affecting them  
as employees and on the various 
factors affecting the performance of 
the Group. This is achieved through 
formal and informal meetings and the 
Group magazine Will2win. Employee 
representatives are consulted regularly 
on a wide range of matters affecting 
their current and future interests.
The Company operates a SAYE Share 
Option Scheme (the Scheme), which  
is open to all eligible employees 
based on a three-, five- or seven-year 
monthly savings contract. Options 
under the Scheme are granted with 
an exercise price up to 20% below the 
prevailing share price. The maximum 
permissible monthly savings under  
the Scheme is £250.
Authority to purchase own shares 
The Company did not purchase  
any of its own shares during the year.
The authority for the Company to 
purchase its own shares remains valid 
until the forthcoming AGM, when it  
is intended that a resolution will be  
put forward to shareholders to  
review this authority.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on Tuesday,  
12 May 2009 at Cavendish 
Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, 
London W1G 9DT. The notice of the 
AGM and an explanation of the items 
of non-routine business are set out  
in the explanatory circular that 
accompanies this Annual Report.
Auditors and disclosure of 
information to auditors
Each of the directors in office at the 
date when this report was approved 
confirms that:
•  so far as the director is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware; and
•  the director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as  
a director in order to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditors are aware 
of that information.
The confirmation should be 
interpreted in accordance with 
Section 234ZA of the Companies  
Act 1985. A resolution to re-appoint 
Deloitte LLP as the Company’s 
auditors will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Going concern
The directors have prepared the 
financial statements on a going 
concern basis consistent with  
their view, formed after making 
appropriate enquiries, as outlined  
in the Statement of Group  
Accounting Policies.
By order of the Board.
Thomas Murphy
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary
27 February 2009
Registered Office:
Greenside House, 50 Station Road,
Wood Green, London N22 7TP William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Introduction
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations  
(the Regulations). The report also  
meets the relevant requirements of  
the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the Principles  
of Good Governance relating to 
directors’ remuneration. The 
Committee has, in preparing this report, 
also considered the guidance issued 
by the National Association of Pension 
Funds and the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI). As required by the 
Regulations, a resolution to approve 
the report will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM of the Company.
The Regulations require the auditors to 
report to the Company’s shareholders 
on the auditable part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, that part of 
the report has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 (as amended  
by the Regulations). The report has, 
therefore, been divided into  
separate sections for audited  
and unaudited information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The Company has established a 
Remuneration Committee (the 
Committee), which is constituted  
in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Combined 
Code. It determines and agrees with 
the Board the Company’s policy and 
framework for the remuneration of 
executive directors and the Chairman, 
and determines the specific 
remuneration packages for each of 
the executive directors and other 
senior management, including basic 
salary, other benefits and any 
compensation payments.
Details of the membership of the 
Remuneration Committee, together 
with the year in which membership 
commenced are set out below.  
All members of the Committee are 
independent non-executive directors. 
No director plays a part in any 
discussion about his own remuneration.
In determining the directors’ 
remuneration, the Committee 
appointed Towers Perrin to provide 
advice on structuring remuneration 
packages for the executive directors 
and senior management. The 
Committee also consulted Mr Topping, 
Chief Executive, and Mr David Russell, 
Group Director, Human Resources, 
about its proposals relating to 
individuals other than themselves. 
Towers Perrin did not provide any other 
services to the Group. Legal advice 
was also taken as appropriate from the 
General Counsel or external advisers.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy has been 
designed to ensure that the Group has 
the ability to attract and retain senior 
managers of a high calibre, align the 
interests of the senior management 
with those of the shareholders and be 
compliant with best practice. The 
performance measurement of the key 
members of senior management and 
the determination of their annual 
remuneration packages are 
undertaken by the Committee. The 
remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is determined by the Board 
within limits set out in the Articles  
of Association. This report sets out  
the Company’s policy on senior 
management remuneration for  
2009 and, so far as practicable, for 
subsequent years. This policy will 
continue unless changed by the 
Committee and any changes in policy 
for years after 2009 will be described  
in future Directors’ Remuneration 
Reports, which will continue to be 
subject to shareholder approval.  
The Committee considers that a 
successful remuneration policy  
needs to be sufficiently flexible to  
take account of future changes in  
the Group’s business environment  
and in remuneration practice.
There are four main elements of  
the remuneration package for  
senior management:
•  basic annual salary and benefits;
•  bonus payments;
•  long-term incentives; and
•  pension arrangements.
The Group’s policy is to position  
the basic salaries of the senior 
management around the median  
of the relevant market, to ensure they 
remain competitive, with a substantial 
proportion of their remuneration  
being performance-related. Following  
a review of the current incentive 
arrangements in light of the strategic 
and long-term importance of William 
Hill Online, the Committee intends to 
continue with the operation of the 
Executive Bonus Matching Scheme 
(EBMS) in 2009 but will consult with 
shareholders on the introduction of 
possible replacement arrangements 
for 2010, as per the commitment 
undertaken at the time of the 
introduction of the EBMS.
Executive directors are required 
to obtain the Board’s prior written 
consent to accept external 
appointments. They currently  
hold no such positions.
Basic annual salary and benefits
The salaries of senior management  
are reviewed on 1 March each  
year. Individual pay levels, within the 
competitive market, are determined 
by reference to performance, 
experience and potential. 
Benchmarks for comparison purposes 
are based on companies within the 
Towers Perrin executive survey of a 
similar size and scope to William Hill. 
The Group believes that this is the  
most appropriate comparator group 
for these purposes.
Mr Topping was appointed Chief 
Executive on 21 February 2008 and  
his salary was revised at that time to 
£475,000, which was still considerably 
below market norms. The basic salary 
of Mr Lane, Group Financial Director, 
was also revised over the course of 
2008 to £325,000 in line with 
competitive market practice. 
Director Year of appointment
Barry Gibson, Chairman 2002
David Allvey  2003
David Edmonds 2005
Ashley Highfield 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Mr Spearing, Corporate Strategy and 
Development Director, had his  
basic salary increased to £315,000  
in October 2007 and there was no 
further increase in 2008.
Mr Spearing retired from the Group on 
31 December 2008 and the above 
salaries for Messrs Topping and Lane 
remained in effect at the year-end. 
The basic salaries of other senior 
management were reviewed and 
increased by between 3% and 15% in 
March 2008. Increases at the higher 
end of this range relate to individuals 
who had taken on significantly 
increased responsibilities during the 
period and were based on an 
external assessment of appropriate 
salary levels for the revised roles. In 
setting salary levels, the Committee  
is sensitive to pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group. The general 
level of increase for the vast majority 
of other employees was 3%, with  
a limited number of employees 
receiving rises above this level,  
where performance merited it,  
up to a maximum increase of 17%.
In addition to basic salary, senior 
management receives other 
competitive benefits, such as a fully 
expensed car or car allowance, 
private health cover and permanent 
health insurance. It is intended to 
continue to provide these benefits  
but to retain the flexibility to provide  
a cash alternative for any or all of 
these, according to individual 
circumstances.
In respect of 2009, the Committee  
has decided to freeze base salaries  
for executive directors and all other 
senior management in light of the 
current economic environment.
Bonus payments
Executives are eligible to participate 
in a senior management bonus 
scheme that is reviewed by the 
Committee on an annual basis to 
determine the most appropriate 
performance measure for that year. 
For 2008, this comprised the Group’s 
financial performance as measured 
by profit on ordinary activities before 
exceptional items, finance charges 
and taxation (PBIT), as well as other 
key operational results. The EBMS 
provided for a target payment of  
90% of basic salary and a maximum 
payment of 165% of salary, 30% of 
which is payable in cash with the 
remaining 70% paid in shares on  
a deferred basis. 
Bonus payments for Messrs Topping 
and Lane for the 52 weeks ended  
30 December 2008, reflecting 
achievement of exceptional financial 
and operational performance goals, 
were 165% of basic salaries. Ordinarily, 
30% of executive director bonuses are 
payable in cash with the remaining 
70% payable in shares in March 2012. 
After discussion with the Remuneration 
Committee, however, Messrs Topping 
and Lane have agreed to take 18% of 
the 2008 bonus payment in cash and 
to defer 82% into William Hill shares, 
which are then released in March 2012, 
as an indication of their long-term 
commitment and to assist in 
compliance with the William Hill 
shareholding guidelines.
Mr Spearing retired from the Group  
on 31 December 2008 and the 
Remuneration Committee exercised 
their discretion to treat him as a good 
leaver and award him a bonus 
payment of 92.25% of basic salary,  
all of which is payable in cash due to  
him leaving the Group. It was agreed 
that he would retain deferred shares 
awarded in previous years and that 
any matching element would be 
determined by the performance 
conditions in the relevant year  
but pro-rated from the date the 
performance period commenced  
to the date of his retirement.
The performance measure for  
the 2009 bonus will continue to be 
primarily based on PBIT and other key 
operational results. The Committee 
believes that PBIT will remain the 
principal indicator of short-term 
performance for bonus purposes.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided  
to drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of executives 
with those of shareholders. In 2007, 
following consultation with major 
shareholders, the EBMS was approved 
by shareholders at the AGM. 
For executive directors and certain 
other senior executives, the EBMS 
replaced the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) and the Deferred Bonus Plan 
and is administered by the Committee. 
Under the EBMS, executive directors 
receive 70% of their annual bonus, on 
a pre-tax basis, in the Company’s 
shares on deferred terms. Other senior 
executives who participate in the 
EBMS are compulsorily required to 
invest one half of their annual bonus, 
again on a pre-tax basis, in deferred 
shares. At the same time as granting 
the deferred shares, the Committee 
grants a matching award to the 
participants on a ratio of not more 
than one-for-one. If the participant 
remains in service for three years, he 
will be entitled, in addition to the 
deferred shares, to a number of the 
matching shares calculated by 
reference to two performance 
conditions measured over the three-
year performance period. One half  
of the matching shares will be 
dependent on the Company’s 
earnings per share performance  
(the EPS Tranche) and the other half 
will be related to the Company’s total 
shareholder return (the TSR Tranche). In 
2007 only, participants who were 
executive directors were granted a 
matching award.
Under the EPS Tranche, target 
performance is Consumer Price Index 
(CPI) plus 3% per annum, at which 50% 
of one half of matching shares will 
vest. For maximum performance (CPI 
plus 9% per annum), 100% of one half 
of matching shares will vest. No shares 
under the EPS Tranche will vest if EPS 
growth is less than CPI plus 3%. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The number of matching shares that  
a participant will receive under the  
TSR Tranche, is dependent on the 
Company’s TSR performance relative 
to a comparator group of 29 
companies from the retail and leisure 
sector. No shares will vest if the TSR 
ranking is below the 50th percentile, 
25% of one half of the matching 
award will vest at the 50th percentile 
and at the 75th percentile, the TSR 
Tranche will vest in full. 
The matching shares will vest on  
a straight-line basis between target 
and maximum performance.
Aside from the EBMS, three other share 
schemes remained in existence in 
2008. The details of these are 
summarised below.
a)  The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
was in place for middle and senior 
management and was replaced by 
the PSP in 2005. There are no 
subsisting awards under the LTIP 
which are currently exercisable. The 
Company does not intend to grant 
any further awards under the LTIP .
b)  The PSP provides for conditional 
awards of shares to the value of a 
percentage of basic salary. Under  
the PSP there are two performance 
conditions, relating to: 
•  the Group’s real (i.e., over and 
above inflation) earnings per 
share (Real EPS) growth, which is 
calculated excluding exceptional 
items; and
•  total shareholder return 
performance.
In 2006, the Committee awarded  
Mr Lane shares to the value of 200%  
of salary and Messrs Topping and 
Spearing shares to the value of 100% 
of salary (the 2006 Awards). The vesting 
of one half of the 2006 Awards (the EPS 
Tranche) depends on the Company’s 
growth in Real EPS, measured in terms 
of the compound annual growth in 
Real EPS achieved over the three 
financial years 2006 to 2008 by 
comparison with Real EPS for 2005.  
No shares vest under the EPS Tranche  
if Real EPS growth is below 4% per 
annum, for 4% per annum growth 25% 
will vest and for above 12% growth  
per annum the EPS Tranche of the 
2006 Awards will vest in full. The vesting 
of the remaining half of the 2006 
Awards (the TSR Tranche) depends  
on the Company’s TSR relative to  
the companies ranked 31-100 in the  
FTSE 100 index on 1 January 2006. No 
shares will vest under the TSR Tranche  
if the TSR ranking is below the 50th 
percentile, 25% will vest at the 50th 
percentile and, at or above the 90th 
percentile, this half of the 2006 Awards 
will vest in full. In addition, no part of 
the TSR Tranche will vest if Real EPS of 
at least 3% per annum is not achieved. 
For the 2006 Awards under this plan, 
the Group’s TSR performance was 
below the 50th percentile and, 
therefore, no shares vested under this 
portion of the plan. However, EPS 
growth over the period was such that 
34.4% of the overall award vested.
c)  The Company also operates SAYE 
Share Option Schemes for eligible 
employees under which options are 
granted with an exercise price up 
to 20% below the prevailing share 
price. Senior management is 
eligible to participate. 
The William Hill Holdings 2001 
Employee Benefit Trust (Trust) was 
established by the Company in 2001. 
The Trust holds shares in the Company 
to satisfy the exercise of share options 
and awards granted under the 
Company’s employee share schemes. 
The Trust currently holds 1,110 shares. 
Whilst shares are held within the Trust, 
the voting rights in respect of those 
shares are exercisable by the trustee, 
in accordance with its fiduciary duties. 
No significant amendments are 
proposed to be made to the terms 
and conditions of any entitlement  
of a director to share options.
Pension arrangements
Market competitive retirement 
benefits are provided to act as  
a retention mechanism and to 
recognise long service. Messrs Topping 
and Spearing were members of the 
‘Retirement Plan’ section of the 
William Hill Pension Scheme. This 
provides defined benefits based on 
final pensionable pay and length of 
service. Benefits accrue at a rate of 
1/30th of pensionable salary, up to  
the Earnings Cap, for each year of 
pensionable service. Their dependants 
are eligible for dependants’ pensions 
and the payment of a lump sum, 
equivalent to four times salary, in the 
event of death in service. Pensionable 
pay is basic salary less the Lower 
Earnings Limit and no other payments 
are pensionable. 
From April 2006, a scheme-specific 
earnings limit was introduced, 
equivalent to the Earnings Cap, and 
members’ benefits were restricted 
accordingly. The loss of benefit as  
a result of this earnings limit, and  
the Earnings Cap before it, is 
compensated for by a salary 
supplement of 10% of total salary.  
Mr Spearing received 10% of salary  
for this loss of benefit in the period  
to the date of his retirement. 
In April 2008, it was agreed that  
Mr Topping could draw his pension 
and continue working. As a result,  
he ceased to be an active member  
of the Pension Scheme and neither  
he nor the Group makes any 
contributions to the Scheme on  
his behalf. No additional benefits have 
accured as a result of this decision. 
The current final salary scheme is 
closed to new entrants and has been 
replaced by a money-purchase 
scheme, the Pensions Savings Plan 
2001, in respect of new joiners, 
including any future appointments  
of executive directors. The employer 
contributions under the money-
purchase scheme are 20% of 
pensionable salary for executive 
directors, subject to the same earnings 
limit as in the ‘Retirement Plan’. Mr Lane 
is a member of the Pensions Savings 
Plan and he receives a further £32,500 
per annum of pension contribution  
in compensation for the loss of  
benefit above the Earnings Cap.
The normal retirement age is  
63 (final salary) and 65 (money 
purchase). However, in view of  
the Age Discrimination legislation 
introduced in October 2006, 
individuals can opt to continue 
working until 65, the Group’s 
recognised normal retirement age. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Policy regarding minimum 
shareholding
It is the Board’s policy to require 
executive directors and certain 
members of senior management to 
hold a minimum shareholding in the 
Company equal to one year’s basic 
salary. Whilst not contractually 
enforceable, the Committee expects 
to exercise its discretion so as not to 
extend participation in various bonus 
schemes and long-term incentive 
arrangements to individuals who fail  
to meet the minimum shareholding 
requirement. All members of the  
senior management team for whom 
this was applicable met the minimum 
shareholding requirement, as stipulated 
by the Committee, by the end of 2007 
and have not subsequently sold any 
shares. The executive investment of 
bonus into shares under the EBMS in 
March 2009 will redress any shortfall. 
Simon Lane, is expected to meet the 
minimum shareholding requirement  
by the end of 2009. 
The original timeframes were set in  
the expectation that all or part of the 
options and shares awarded under 
the various share schemes would  
vest by these dates, thereby providing 
the executive with shares that can 
contribute towards meeting the 
minimum shareholding requirement.
As required by the Regulations,  
the graph above shows the 
Company’s performance, measured 
by TSR, compared with that of the 
performance of the FTSE 250 
(excluding investment companies) 
Index. The FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies) Index has 
been selected for this comparison 
because it is the index used by the 
Company to determine payments 
under most of its current long-term 
incentive arrangements. 
The graph consists of points 
representing the change in the  
value of a nominal investment of £100 
made on 31 December 2003 in the 
Company and the FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies) Index, 
respectively. The change in value of 
the index holding reflects changes  
in the value of the constituent 
companies over the period. The 
closing values at 31 December 2008 
represent the value of each nominal 
holding at that date and reflect the 
change in the share price and the 
value of dividend income re-invested 
over the period.
Executive directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that 
executive directors should have 
contracts with an indefinite term 
providing for a maximum of one year’s 
notice. Consequently, no executive 
has a contractual notice period in 
excess of 12 months.
In the event of early termination, 
 the policy on executive directors’ 
contracts provides for compensation 
up to a maximum of 12 months’ basic 
salary, pension contributions, other 
benefits and pro-rated annual bonus. 
The Committee will also consider 
mitigation to reduce compensation 
to a departing director where 
appropriate to do so.
Mr Topping is employed under a 
service contract dated 21 February 
2008 and is entitled under the contract 
to a basic annual salary, participation 
in the Company’s bonus scheme, a 
company car (or cash allowance in 
lieu), permanent health insurance  
and private medical insurance cover. 
He is no longer an active member  
of the Pension Scheme. Mr Topping’s 
contract is for an indefinite term 
ending automatically on his retirement  
date (age 63) but may be terminated 
by 12 months’ notice given by  
either party.
Historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years versus  
FTSE mid 250 (excluding investment companies) index. Comparison based  
on 30 trading day values.
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
£250
£225
£200
£175
£150
£125
£100
£75
£50
£25
£0
Dec ‘03 Dec ‘04 Dec ‘05 Dec ‘06 Dec ‘07
FTSE mid 250 (excluding investment companies)
William Hill
Dec ‘08 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Mr Lane is employed under a service 
contract with the Company dated  
20 March 2006 in the same format  
that applies to Mr Topping, other  
than in respect of pension. Mr Lane’s 
contract is for an indefinite term 
ending automatically on his retirement 
date (age 65) but may be terminated 
by 12 months’ notice given by either 
party. The service contracts of Messrs 
Topping and Lane contain the 
following provisions: 
•  the Company may, at its discretion, 
elect to terminate the contract by 
making a payment in lieu of notice 
equal to the salary that would have 
been received during the notice 
period, a pro-rated amount in 
respect of bonus for the year in 
which the employment terminates, 
and the annual cost to the 
Company of providing pension  
and all other benefits to which he  
is entitled under the contract;
•  at the Company’s discretion, this 
payment may be made either as  
a lump sum or in 12 equal monthly 
instalments. If the Company elects 
to pay in instalments and the 
individual commences alternative 
employment or provides services 
pursuant to a consultancy 
arrangement while the monthly 
payments are being made, then 
they shall be reduced by 80% of 
1/12th of the basic annual salary  
or fee; and
•  there is a contractual obligation to 
secure alternative employment as 
soon as reasonably practicable.
Mr Spearing was employed under a 
service contract with the Company 
dated 17 May 2007. His contract was in 
the same format as that which applies 
to Messrs Topping and Lane, other than 
in respect of pension (see comments 
on page 30). In September 2008, Mr 
Spearing confirmed that he was retiring 
and his employment with the Group 
terminated on 31 December 2008. He 
will, however, continue to provide the 
Group with occasional consultancy 
services for which he will receive  
£5,000 per month for the 12 months  
to December 2009. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee exercised its 
discretion to treat him as a good leaver 
and he will be eligible for a payment 
under the bonus scheme for his 
contribution during 2008. He will also 
retain the deferred and matching 
shares awarded in previous years,  
with the matching element being 
determined by the performance 
conditions at the end of the relevant 
performance period. 
Non-executive directors’ letter  
of appointment
All non-executive directors have 
specific letters of engagement and 
their remuneration is determined by 
the Board within the limits set by the 
Articles of Association and based on 
independent surveys of fees paid to 
non-executive directors of similar 
companies. Remuneration is set taking 
account of the commitment and 
responsibilities of the relevant role.  
The non-executive directors do not 
have service contracts.
Mr Scott was appointed a non-
executive director on 15 April 2002 
and non-executive Chairman on  
1 January 2004 under an appointment 
letter dated 28 October 2003 and  
his initial term of office expired on  
31 December 2006. Following a  
review by the Nomination Committee, 
chaired by the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, and 
agreement by the Board, his term of 
office was extended by a letter dated 
5 December 2006 for a further three-
year term ending on 31 December 
2009. Mr Scott’s basic annual fee was 
increased to £262,500 with effect from 
1 March 2007 in respect of all services 
rendered to the Company, including 
chairing the Nomination Committee. 
Following Mr Harding’s departure, Mr 
Scott assumed the role of Executive 
Chairman and, in recognition of his 
additional responsibilities and time 
commitment, his fees were increased 
to £350,000 with effect from 1 October 
2007. He reverted to his non-executive 
role, and previous fees, on the 
appointment of Mr Topping as Chief 
Executive, with effect from 21 February 
2008. Following a review of fee levels 
by Towers Perrin in July 2008, his basic 
fee was increased to £273,000. 
In March 2008, the basic annual  
fee paid to non-executive directors 
was increased to £50,000 and the 
additional fee for chairing a Board 
committee was increased to £13,000 
and £18,000 for the Audit Committee. 
Also, with effect from 1 March 2008, the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director was paid an additional fee  
of £5,000. 
Non-executive directors are 
appointed for an initial term of three 
years and, in normal circumstances 
and subject to satisfactory 
performance and re-election at 
AGMs, they would be expected to 
serve for an additional three-year 
term. Non-executive directors may  
be requested to serve for a further 
three-year term subject to rigorous 
review at the relevant time and 
agreement with the relevant director.
Messrs Allvey’s and Gibson’s 
appointment letters were dated 17 
and 22 May 2002, respectively, and 
their terms of office were extended  
by letters dated 12 April 2005 for a 
further three-year term to expire  
on 17 May 2008 and 22 May 2008, 
respectively. Mr Allvey’s term of office 
has been further extended for three 
years to end in May 2011 and Mr 
Gibson’s by a further year to end  
in May 2009. Mr Edmonds was 
appointed as an independent non-
executive director in January 2005  
by an appointment letter dated  
22 December 2004 and his term of 
office was extended by a letter with 
effect from 1 January 2008 for a further 
three-year term to expire in 2011.  
Mr Highfield was appointed as an 
independent non-executive director 
in November 2008 by an appointment 
letter dated 17 November 2008.  
Upon termination or resignation,  
non-executive directors are not 
entitled to compensation and no fee 
is payable in respect of the unexpired 
portion of the term of appointment. 
Non-executive directors cannot 
participate in any of the Company’s 
incentive schemes and are not 
eligible to join the Group’s  
pension scheme. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
Business Review Financial statements Company Information Governance 
Audited information
Aggregate directors’ remuneration:
2008
 Total
£
2007
total
£
Emoluments 3,302,277 2,442,995
Gains on exercise of share options 20,701 2,844,682
Gains arising from shares transferred 7,020 -
3,329,998 5,287,677
Pension contributions
1
55,972 77,784
Name of Director
Fees/
basic salary
1
£
Benefits  
in kind
£
Annual bonuses
2
 
£
2008
 Total
£
2007
 Total
£
Executive directors
David Harding - - - - 629,500
Ralph Topping 477,500 34,272 783,750 1,295,522 430,404
Simon Lane 305,833 24,102 536,250 866,185 525,898
Ian Spearing 367,125 15,192 290,587 672,904 419,711
Non-executive directors
Charles Scott 282,333 - - 282,333 281,875
David Allvey 60,250 - - 60,250 51,369
David Edmonds 57,750 - - 57,750 51,369
Barry Gibson 61,250 - - 61,250 52,869
Ashley Highfield 6,083 - - 6,083 -
Aggregate emoluments 1,618,124 73,566 1,610,587 3,302,277 2,442,995
Directors’ emoluments:
The executive directors are the highest paid employees within the Group.
There were no payments made to executive directors by the Company during the financial year for compensation  
for loss of office or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services. The non-cash elements of  
the executive directors’ remuneration packages consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private 
health cover, travel card and permanent health insurance.
1
  Included in fees/basic salary for Mr Spearing was £33,375 paid as a salary supplement in lieu of pension benefit lost due to the Earnings Cap. 
2
  Normally 30% of the annual bonus would be payable in cash with the remaining 70% payable in shares in March 2011, the third anniversary of the cash bonus 
payment, on the terms described for the EBMS. This year Ralph Topping and Simon Lane have taken only 18% of the annual bonus in cash. The balance of 
82% will be payable in shares in March 2011. Mr Spearing was paid a bonus of £290,587 in relation to the EBMS 2008.
1 
The above pension contributions do not include the contribution of £38,333 (2007 – £22,350) outlined on page 37. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ share options and awards
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of share options to acquire,  
or awards over, ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors. 
Details of the options exercised during the period are as follows:
Name of director Scheme Number of options Exercise price
Market value at 
exercise date
Gains on exercise 
2008
£
Gains on exercise 
2007
£
David Harding EDIP - - - - 2,496,725
EDIP - - - - 89,775
LTIP 2004 - - - - 134,142
Ian Spearing SAYE 2002 - - - - 40,546
PSP 2005 10,468 Nil 1.98 20,701 -
Ralph Topping SAYE 2002 - - - - 38,890
LTIP 2004 - - - - 44,604
20,701 2,844,682 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Details of options for directors who served during the period are as follows:
Name of Director Scheme
Number of 
shares at
1 January 
2008
Granted 
during the 
period
Exercised 
during the 
period
Forfeited/
lapsed 
during the 
period
Number of 
shares  
at 30 
December 
2008
Exercise 
price
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
Charles Scott N/A - - - - - - - -
Simon Lane PSP 2006 86,956 - - (72,013) 14,943 Nil Mar 2009 Mar 2016
EBMS 2007 60,500 - - - 60,500 Nil Mar 2010 Mar 2017
EBMS 2008 - 87,780 - - 87,780 Nil Mar 2011 Mar 2018
SAYE 2008 - 3,428 - - 3,428 280p Aug 2011 Jan 2012
Ian Spearing PSP 2005 59,480 - (10,468) (49,012) - Nil Jun 2008 Jun 2015
PSP 2006 29,565 - - (24,484) 5,081 Nil Mar 2009 Mar 2016
EBMS 2007 50,948 - - - 50,948 Nil Mar 2010 Mar 2017
EBMS 2008 - 97,020 - - 97,020 Nil Mar 2011 Mar 2018
SAYE 2007 1,912 - - (1,912) - 494p Aug 2010 Jan 2011
Ralph Topping PSP 2005 53,904 - - (44,417) 9,487
2
Nil Jun 2008 Jun 2015
PSP 2006 27,826 - - (23,044) 4,782 Nil Mar 2009 Mar 2016
EBMS 2007 50,948 - - - 50,948 Nil Mar 2010 Mar 2017
EBMS 2008 - 104,720 - - 104,720 Nil Mar 2011 Mar 2018
SAYE 2007 1,912 - - (1,912) - 494p Aug 2010 Jan 2011
SAYE 2008 - 3,428 - - 3,428 280p Aug 2011 Jan 2012
David Allvey N/A - - - - - - - -
David Edmonds N/A - - - - - - - -
Barry Gibson N/A - - - - - - - -
Ashley Highfield N/A - - - - - - - -
2
  Fully vested but not exercised William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
In addition, the following details the movements on deferred bonus shares for applicable directors who served  
during the period:
Name of director Scheme
Number of  
shares at
 1 January 2008
Granted  
during the  
period
Transferred  
during the  
period
Number of  
shares at
 30 December 2008 Maturity date
Ralph Topping Operating bonus 3,312 - - 3,312 Jun 2008
Ian Spearing Operating bonus 3,550 (3,550) - Jun 2008
Options granted under the SAYE Share Option Schemes are not subject to performance criteria. There have been  
no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for any share options during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 December 2008 was £2.14. and the range during the period from  
1 January 2008 to 30 December 2008 was £1.54 to £5.00.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Messrs Spearing and Topping were the only directors who were members of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme during 2008.
Mr Topping ceased to be an active member of the defined benefit pension scheme on 31 March 2008 as a result  
of an agreement that he could draw his pension while continuing working.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following table shows the members’ contributions, the increase in accrued 
entitlement during the period and the accrued entitlement at the end of the period:
Name of director
Accrued  
pension 
1 january 2008
£
Real increase  
(or decrease) in  
accrued pension
£
Inflation
£
Increase in
 accrued pension in the 
period
£
Accrued pension 
30 December 2008
1
£
Ian Spearing 50,680 5,586 2,534 8,120 58,800
Ralph Topping 113,755 28,714 1,396 30,110 143,865
1
 Or, in the case of Mr Topping, his date of retirement William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors’ accrued benefits under the same scheme calculated in a 
manner determined by the Trustee of the Scheme having taken advice from the Scheme Actuary:
Name of director
Transfer value 
1 January 2008
£
Value of  
real increase  
(or decrease) in 
accrued pension net 
of contributions
1
£
Other changes to 
transfer value
£
Increase in transfer 
value in the period 
net of contributions
£
Contributions made 
by the director
£
Transfer value 
30 December 2008
£
Ian Spearing 842,251 102,357 188,281 290,638 5,820 1,138,709
Ralph Topping 1,610,104 430,454 (108,521) 321,933 2,693 1,934,730
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director. Instead  
they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
The accrued pension figures shown are those before any reduction due to early retirement is applied.
Mr Topping’s transfer value calculation does not make any allowance for the portion of his pension which was 
commuted at retirement for a cash lump sum of £385,866 or Lifetime Allowance charge paid in respect of his  
benefit of £68,859.
Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions  
nor the resulting benefits are included in the above tables.
The Group contributed £38,333 to Mr Lane’s defined contribution pension fund between 1 January 2008  
and 31 December 2008.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
Barry Gibson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1
 Or in the case of Mr Topping, his date of retirement William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 38
Governance
Statement on Corporate Governance
The directors are committed to high 
standards of corporate governance 
and this statement sets out how the 
Board has applied the principles set 
out in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published in 
June 2006 (the Code) and identifies, 
and provides an explanation for, any 
non-compliance with the Code’s 
provisions during the year.
Compliance with the  
Code’s provisions
During the year, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the 
Code, with the exception that the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
were combined between 2 January 
2008 and 20 February 2008 while the 
process to appoint a new Chief 
Executive was ongoing. 
The Board
The Chairman, Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and other 
directors, including those considered 
by the Board to be independent, are 
listed on page 25. Details of Board  
and committee attendance are listed 
below. Mr Highfield was appointed  
to the Board on 17 November 2008. 
Appropriate insurance cover is in 
place in respect of legal action 
against directors.
The Board operates within a formal 
schedule of matters reserved to it,  
which is regularly reviewed. Other 
powers are delegated to the various 
Board committees and senior 
management. Details of the roles and 
responsibilities of the Board committees 
are set out on pages 28, 43, 44 and 46. 
Papers for Board and committee 
meetings are circulated in advance  
of the relevant meeting and where  
a director is unable to attend he 
continues to be provided with a full 
copy of the papers and has the 
opportunity to comment on the 
matters to be discussed.
The Board considers that its primary 
role is to provide leadership to the 
Group, to set the Group’s long-term 
strategic objectives and to develop 
robust corporate governance and risk 
management practices. The Schedule 
of Matters Reserved to the Board and 
delegated authorities are reviewed 
and approved by the Board annually. 
Matters reserved to the Board include, 
among others:
•  setting the overall direction, long-
term objectives and strategy of the 
Group and delegating day-to-day 
management to the Chief Executive; 
•  reviewing Group performance;
•  reviewing the arrangements in  
place relating to regulatory and 
industry issues; 
•  approving the appointment and 
removal of any Board member  
and the Company Secretary; 
Notes:
1
  The Board held 12 scheduled meetings (including an off-site Strategy Day, with senior managers) during the year and six ad hoc meetings held to consider 
specific issues during the year. 
2
  With the exception of Mr Highfield, who was appointed a director on 17 November 2008, all other directors attended all of the 12 scheduled Board meetings. 
The figures shown in the table include both attendances in person and by telephone.
        Board
Audit and Risk 
Management 
Committee
Corporate 
Responsibility and 
Regulated Issues 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee Scheduled Ad hoc
Number of 
meetings held
12
1
6 6 2 2 6
Meetings 
attended
Charles Scott 12 6 N/A 2 2 N/A
David Allvey 12 6 6 N/A 2 6
David Edmonds 12 5 6 2 2 5
Barry Gibson 12 5 5 N/A 2 6
Ashley Highfield 2 N/A N/A 1 N/A N/A
Simon Lane 12 6 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Ian Spearing 12 5 N/A 1 N/A N/A
Ralph Topping 12 5 N/A 2 N/A N/A William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
•  reviewing and approving the terms 
of reference of the various Board 
committees and receiving reports 
from committee chairmen on a 
regular basis; 
•  approving changes to the  
Group’s capital structure any 
significant acquisitions and  
disposals capital investment  
projects and material contracts;
•  approval of the Group’s annual plan, 
Annual Report and Accounts, Interim 
Report and Interim Management 
Statements, and setting of the 
Group’s dividend policy; 
•  approval of the Group’s  
charitable donations and  
Group-wide CR policies;
•  undertaking reviews of Board, 
committee and individual director 
performance at least annually; and
•  succession planning for senior 
management and the Board  
(on the recommendation of  
the Nomination Committee). 
The authority delegated to senior 
management provides a practical 
framework to executive management, 
which seeks to achieve the dual 
objectives of maintaining effective 
financial and operational controls 
while providing sufficient flexibility  
to manage the business. Examples  
of areas of such delegated authority 
include: the release of capital 
expenditure against approved 
budgets; treasury activity within 
approved limits; payroll processing; 
property transactions; LBO 
development activities; the setting  
of bet acceptance limits; and  
routine transaction processing.
The Board comprises individuals with 
wide business experience gained in 
various sectors of industry and in the 
public sector. They have access to all 
information relating to the Group, the 
advice and services of the Company 
Secretary (who is responsible for 
ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and is also the Company’s 
General Counsel) and, as required, 
external advice at the expense of  
the Group.
During the year, the Chairman met 
with the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors being 
present and, as part of the process  
to appraise the Chairman’s 
performance, the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director met with  
Mr Allvey and Mr Edmonds. 
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Ralph Topping was appointed Chief 
Executive on 21 February 2008. Since 
that date, there has been a clear 
division of responsibilities between the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, 
whereby the Chairman is responsible 
for the running of the Board and the 
Chief Executive is the executive 
responsible for the running of the 
business. Prior to 21 February 2008,  
the Chairman also assumed the role  
of Chief Executive following the 
resignation of David Harding on  
28 September 2007. 
The Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director’s main role is  
to satisfy the function outlined in  
the Code of being available to 
shareholders if there are concerns  
that normal contact has failed to 
resolve, to lead the process for 
evaluating the Chairman’s 
performance and to chair the 
Nomination Committee when it  
is considering succession to the  
role of chairman. 
No one individual has unfettered 
powers of decision-making.
Mr Scott satisfied the independence 
criteria detailed in provision A.3.1  
of the Code on his appointment  
as Chairman and details of his other 
significant commitments are set  
out on page 25. 
Board balance, independence  
and appointments
During the year, the Nomination 
Committee and the Board reviewed 
the structure, size and composition  
of the Board (together with an 
evaluation of the Board’s balance  
of skills, knowledge and experience), 
the membership of the various Board 
committees and the expected time 
commitment and policy for multiple 
Board appointments for executive 
and non-executive directors.
The directors’ aim is to ensure that  
the balance of the Board reflects  
the changing needs of the  
Group’s business. 
The Nomination Committee and  
the Board will continue to monitor  
the Board balance and skills at  
least annually. 
During the period between 2 January 
2008 and 20 February 2008, the Board 
comprised three independent non-
executive directors and four executive 
directors, including the Chairman 
temporarily holding an executive role. 
In respect of the period, between  
21 February 2008 and 16 November 
2008 when Charles Scott reverted to 
non-executive Chairman, the Board 
comprised three executive directors 
and four non-executive directors. 
Following the appointment of Ashley 
Highfield on 17 November 2008, there 
were five non-executive directors. 
During the period between 2 January 
2008 and 30 December 2008, the 
Company satisfied the Code 
requirements that at least half the 
Board, excluding the Chairman,  
should comprise non-executive 
directors determined by the Board  
to be independent.
Appointments to the Board are the 
responsibility of the full Board, on the 
recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. On joining the Board,  
non-executive directors receive a 
formal appointment letter, which 
identifies the time commitment 
expected of them. A potential director 
candidate is required to disclose all 
significant outside commitments prior 
to appointment and the Board has 
approved a policy requiring disclosure 
and approval by the Board of all 
additional appointments for executive 
or non-executive directors. The terms 
and conditions of appointment of  
non-executive directors and service 
contracts of executive directors are 
available to shareholders for inspection 
at the Group’s registered office during 
normal business hours and at the AGM 
(for 15 minutes prior to the meeting  
and during the meeting). William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 40
Information and  
professional development
The Board receives detailed reports 
from executive management on the 
performance of the Group at monthly 
board meetings and other information 
as necessary, and senior management 
regularly make presentations to the 
Board on their areas of responsibility. 
Regular updates are provided on 
relevant legal, corporate governance 
and financial reporting developments 
and directors are encouraged to 
attend external seminars on areas  
of relevance to their role. The Board 
has approved an information and 
professional development policy  
for directors.
A formal induction programme has 
been developed by the Company 
Secretary and approved by the 
Chairman. A range of both general 
and Group-specific information is 
provided in hard copy and this is 
supplemented by a series of meetings 
with external advisers and employees. 
Induction programmes are in place for 
appointment to the Board, the Audit 
and Risk Management Committee, 
the Remuneration Committee and  
the Corporate Responsibility and 
Regulated Issues Committee.
All directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. The removal and 
appointment of the Company 
Secretary is a matter reserved for 
Board approval. The Board also 
obtains advice from professional 
advisers as and when required. 
Governance
Statement on Corporate Governance
Performance evaluation
A process of performance evaluation 
of the Board, its committees and 
directors is undertaken on an annual 
basis and the process undertaken  
for 2008 involved the following:
•  the four Board committees 
conducting a review of their terms  
of reference and continuing to 
assess committee performance;
•  one-to-one meetings being held 
between the Chairman and each 
director to assess individual director 
performance and to allow any other 
issues to be raised; and 
•  an assessment by the Board of its 
own performance, with feedback  
to the Board from the chairman of 
each committee and the Board, 
and the approval of action to 
address issues raised. 
The Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director leads the process 
for the evaluation of the Chairman’s 
performance, involving discussions 
with each other director, a meeting 
with the other independent non-
executive directors and feedback  
to the Chairman. 
Re-election
All directors are subject to election  
at the first AGM following their 
appointment by the Board. The 
Company’s Articles of Association 
state that each year one third of 
directors should retire by rotation  
but that if a director has, at the start  
of the AGM, been a director for more 
than three years since his last re-
appointment, he shall retire. In 
practice, this means that every 
director stands for re-election at  
least once every three years.
The Board explains the reasons why  
it believes each director should be 
elected or re-elected in the Notice of 
Meeting for the next AGM. As referred 
to above, those directors who held 
office during the year have been 
subject to formal performance 
evaluation and the Board believes
that their performance continues  
to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to their relevant role. 
Their re-election is also consistent  
with the Board’s evaluation of the  
size, structure and composition of  
the Board.
 
Remuneration 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report  
is set out on pages 28 to 37.
Relations with shareholders
The Board remains committed to 
maintaining good relationships  
with both institutional and private 
shareholders. There continues to be  
a regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders, although care is 
exercised to ensure that any price-
sensitive information is released at  
the same time to all shareholders,  
in accordance with the requirements 
of the UK Listing Authority. Slide 
presentations provided to institutional 
shareholders and analysts following 
the publication of the Group’s 
preliminary and interim results are 
made available on the Group’s 
investor relations website,  
www.williamhillplc.co.uk, and  
a recording of the results  
presentations can be accessed  
via telephone or webcast for a  
period following the meeting.
The Chairman is available to discuss 
strategy and governance issues with 
shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns that have not, or 
cannot, be addressed through the  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Chairman, Chief Executive or Group 
Finance Director. Meetings between 
the Chairman, Chief Executive and/or 
the Group Finance Director and 
shareholders have been held on 
request to discuss governance  
and corporate responsibility  
issues generally. 
The Group obtains feedback from  
its broker, Citigroup, on the views of 
institutional investors on a non-
attributed basis and the Chief 
Executive and/or Group Finance 
Director communicate the issues and 
concerns of major shareholders to the 
Board. As a matter of routine, the 
Board receives a monthly report from 
its brokers on issues relating to recent 
share price performance, trading 
activity and institutional investor 
sentiment. The Board also receives 
copies of relevant analysts’ reports  
on an ad hoc basis. An Investor 
Relations manager was appointed 
during the year.
The Board regards the AGM as  
an important opportunity to 
communicate directly with all 
shareholders. Board members, 
including the chairmen of the 
Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and 
Risk Management and Corporate 
Responsibility and Regulated Issues 
Committees, attended the 2008 
meeting and intend to attend the 
forthcoming meeting and to be 
available to answer questions. In order 
that shareholders are aware of the 
other shareholders’ voting intentions, 
the details of proxy votes for the 
meetings held in 2008 were 
announced at the relevant general 
meeting and were made available  
on the Group’s website following the 
meeting. The website also contains 
copies of the Notices of Meeting  
and explanatory notes. A separate 
resolution was proposed on each 
substantially separate issue. It is 
intended to continue with these 
practices for 2009 and future 
shareholder meetings. It is planned  
to post the Notice of the 2009 AGM to 
shareholders with the Annual Report 
and Accounts at least 20 working days 
prior to the date of the meeting.
Board committees
The Remuneration Committee, the 
Nomination Committee, the Audit  
and Risk Management Committee 
and the Corporate Responsibility and 
Regulated Issues Committee are 
standing committees of the Board.
The terms of reference of the 
committees, including their objectives 
and the authority delegated to them 
by the Board, are available upon 
request or via the Group’s corporate 
website (www.williamhillplc.co.uk)  
and are reviewed at least annually  
by the relevant committee and the 
Board. All committees have access  
to independent expert advice. 
Appointments to Board committees 
are for three-year terms extendable 
by no more than two additional  
three-year terms.
Audit and Risk Management 
Committee
The role and operation of the Audit 
and Risk Management Committee is 
set out in its report on pages 44 and 45.
Nomination Committee
The role and operation of the 
Nomination Committee is set out  
in its report on page 43.
Remuneration Committee
The role and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 28 to 37.
 
Corporate Responsibility and 
Regulated issues Committee
Details of the membership and  
areas of key focus of the Corporate 
Responsibility and Regulated  
Issues Committee are set out in  
the Corporate Responsibility  
Report on pages 46 to 52.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s internal control systems 
and for monitoring their effectiveness. 
Executive directors and senior 
management are responsible for the 
implementation and maintenance  
of the internal control systems, which 
are subject to yearly review that is 
documented. The Internal Audit 
department maintains a database 
recording the system of internal 
controls in every division and 
department throughout the Group. 
The Board monitors the ongoing 
process by which critical risks to the 
business are identified, evaluated  
and managed. This process is consistent 
with both the Turnbull Guidance on 
Internal Control and the revised 
guidance issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council, and has been in 
place for the year under review and  
up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and Accounts. 
Each year, the Board assesses the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls (including financial, 
operational and compliance controls 
and risk management systems) on  
the basis of:
•  established procedures, including 
those already described, which are 
in place to manage perceived risks;
•  regular reports by management to 
the Audit and Risk Management 
Committee on the adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control 
systems and significant control issues; 
•  the continuous Group-wide process 
for formally identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks  
to the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives; and
•  reports to the Audit and Risk 
Management Committee on the 
results of internal audit reviews and 
work undertaken by other 
departments.
The Group’s internal control systems 
are designed to manage, rather than  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 42
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
the Group’s objectives and can only 
provide reasonable, and not absolute, 
assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In assessing what 
constitutes reasonable assurance,  
the Board considers the materiality  
of financial and non-financial risks  
and the relationship between the  
cost of, and benefit from, internal 
control systems.
The Board regularly reviews the  
actual and forecast performance  
of the business compared with  
the annual plan, as well as other  
key performance indicators.
Lines of responsibility and delegated 
authorities are clearly defined. The 
Group’s policies and procedures are 
regularly updated and distributed 
throughout the Group. The Audit and 
Risk Management Committee 
receives reports on a regular basis on 
compliance with the Group’s policies 
and procedures.
No significant failings or weaknesses 
were identified as a result of the 
review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control.
Governance
Statement on Corporate Governance
Assessment of risk
A corporate risk matrix has been 
developed and has been updated 
following detailed review by Internal 
Audit and senior management  
during the year. The matrix is approved 
annually by the Audit and Risk 
Management Committee and the 
Board. The matrix records the key risks 
facing the business, the assessment  
of the likelihood of the risks crystallising 
and their potential materiality, and  
the Group’s response to each risk. 
Responsibility for management of  
the risks is attributed typically to  
senior management.
The Board uses the control and risk 
management processes to identify 
and manage any significant risks 
arising from social, environmental and 
ethical issues. Further details of the 
Group’s corporate responsibility 
practices are described on pages  
46 to 52.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit department reviews 
the extent to which systems of internal 
control are effective, and adequate  
to manage the Group’s significant  
risks, safeguard the Group’s assets,  
and in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary (who is also the Company’s 
General Counsel), ensures compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements. 
It provides independent and objective 
assurance on risks and controls to the 
Board and senior management.
Internal Audit’s work is focused on 
areas of greatest risk to the Group,  
as determined by a structured  
risk assessment process involving 
executive directors and senior 
management. The output from this 
process is summarised in an annual 
audit plan, which is approved by  
the Audit and Risk Management 
Committee. The Head of Internal  
Audit reports regularly to the Group 
Finance Director and the Audit  
and Risk Management Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit 
department and the scope of its work 
continue to evolve to take account  
of changes within the business and 
emerging best practice. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Report of the Nomination Committee
Membership and meetings
Set out below is the current 
membership of the Nomination 
Committee, together with the year  
in which membership commenced.  
All members of the committee are 
independent non-executive directors 
and the committee is chaired by  
the Board Chairman.
Director Year of appointment 
to the committee
Charles Scott, Chairman 2002
David Allvey 2002
Barry Gibson 2002
David Edmonds 2007
The Company Secretary, or one  
of the committee members, acts  
as secretary to the Committee. 
The committee meets as necessary 
and, if possible, before or after  
regular meetings of the Board. The 
committee met formally on two 
occasions during 2008.
Role of the Nomination Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference 
for the committee can be obtained 
via the Group’s corporate website 
www.williamhillplc.co.uk or by request 
to the Company Secretary. Its principal 
function is to carry out a formal 
selection process for executive  
and non-executive directors and 
subsequently to propose to the  
Board any new appointments. 
The Nomination Committee oversees 
succession planning for directors and 
senior managers below Board level.
The Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee reports to the Board  
on the outcome of meetings.
Main activities during 2008
During the year, the committee  
made recommendations to the  
Board regarding its size, structure and 
Board and committee composition. 
During 2008, the committee also:
•  recommended to the Board that 
Ralph Topping be appointed Chief 
Executive of the Company;
•  recommended to the Board that 
Ashley Highfield be appointed a 
Non-Executive Director of the 
Company;
•  reviewed and approved extensions 
to the contracts for the non-
executive directors;
•  approved the directors who would 
offer themselves for re-election at 
the 2008 AGM in accordance with  
the Articles of Association; and
•  approved the Report of the 
Nomination Committee contained  
in the Annual Report and Accounts. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 44
Governance
Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
Membership, meetings and 
remuneration
Set out below is the current 
membership of the Audit and Risk 
Management Committee together 
with the year in which membership 
commenced. During the year, all the 
members of the Committee were 
independent non-executive directors. 
Director Year of appointment  
to the committee
David Allvey, Chairman 2002
David Edmonds 2005
Barry Gibson 2002
The Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee. Other 
individuals attend at the request of 
the committee Chairman. During the 
year, the external auditors, Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, 
Head of Internal Audit and the Head 
of Financial Planning and Control 
would usually attend meetings to 
report to the committee and provide 
clarification and explanations where 
appropriate. The Corporate Finance 
Manager, Head of Compliance and 
Head of Security have attended 
meetings an request. The committee 
also meets with the external auditors 
without executive management 
present on a regular basis. The 
committee met on six occasions 
during the year and details of 
attendance at committee meetings  
are set out on page 38.
Mr Allvey has recent and relevant 
financial experience. He is a chartered 
accountant, a former Group Finance 
Director of Barclays PLC and BAT 
Industries PLC and a former member 
of the UK Accounting Standards 
Board. Mr Edmonds and Mr Gibson  
are both financially literate and  
have significant general business 
experience of executive roles in both 
private and public organisations and 
details of each director’s significant 
current and prior appointments are 
set out on page 25.
Role of the Audit and Risk  
Management Committee
A full copy of the terms of reference 
for the committee can be obtained 
via the Group’s corporate website  
www.williamhillplc.co.uk or by request 
to the Company Secretary. The 
Committee’s principal responsibilities 
are to:
•  review and advise the Board on the 
Group’s interim and annual financial 
statements and its accounting 
policies, and to monitor the integrity 
of the financial statements and 
announcements relating to  
financial performance;
•  review the major risks affecting the 
Group and assist the Board with 
reviewing the effectiveness of the  
controls operating over the Group’s 
financial and non-financial risks;
•  review the nature and scope of  
the work to be performed by the 
external and internal auditors,  
the result of that work and 
management’s response, and  
their effectiveness;
•  oversee the relationship with the 
external auditors, including making 
recommendations to the Board 
regarding their appointment or 
removal, and developing a policy 
regarding the provision of non-audit 
services to the Group;
•  meet with the executive directors 
and management, as well as 
privately with both the external  
and internal auditors; and
•  report to shareholders annually  
on its role and responsibilities.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Management Committee reports  
to the Board on the outcome  
of meetings.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy 
and procedure for staff to raise issues 
regarding possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting or other 
matters has been established and  
was reviewed during the year. It is  
the responsibility of the committee  
to monitor its effectiveness and any 
notifications made.
The committee has access to the 
services of the Internal Audit and 
Company Secretarial departments 
and is authorised to obtain 
independent professional advice  
if it considers it necessary.
Main activities during 2008
The committee has discharged  
its responsibilities during the year  
by performing the activities  
described below.
Financial statements
During the year, the committee 
reviewed and discussed the financial 
disclosures made in the preliminary 
results announcement, Annual Report 
and Accounts, Interim Statement and 
the other trading statements made  
by the Group, together with any 
related management letters, letters  
of representation and reports from the 
external auditors. Significant financial 
reporting issues and judgements were 
considered, together with any 
significant accounting policies and 
changes proposed to them. 
Internal control and risk management
The committee has reviewed the 
Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems and has 
received reports from a number of 
departments, and, where appropriate, 
presentations from senior 
management, on the major risks faced 
by the Group and the procedures 
established to identify, assess, manage, 
monitor and report on these risks. The 
Committee has reviewed and 
approved the statements on internal 
control on page 41.
External auditors 
The committee has responsibility for 
overseeing the relationship with the 
external auditors and approves the 
external auditors’ engagement letter, 
audit fee and audit and client services 
plan, including the planned levels of 
materiality. The external auditors 
attend each committee meeting  
and at least annually meet with  
the committee without executive 
management present. The Chairman 
of the committee also meets privately 
with the external auditors. Letters of 
representation are reviewed prior to 
signature by executive management. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
During the year, the committee 
received regular reports from the 
external auditors, including: a formal 
written report dealing with the audit 
objectives, the auditors’ qualifications, 
expertise and resources; effectiveness 
of the audit process; procedures and 
policies for maintaining independence; 
and compliance with the ethical 
standards issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. The external auditors’ 
management letter is reviewed, as is 
management’s response to issues 
raised. The committee monitors the 
ethical guidance regarding rotation of 
audit partners and a change in audit 
partner was made during 2004 when 
the audit partner was rotated off the 
audit in accordance with the latest 
guidance. The new audit partner was 
appointed following interviews with the 
committee Chairman and the Group 
Finance Director and subsequent 
approval by the committee.
During the year, the committee 
reviewed the Group’s written policy 
regarding the employment by the 
Group of former employees of the 
external auditors and the policy on 
non-audit services provided by the 
external auditors. The committee 
approves any non-audit work to be 
undertaken by the external auditors 
involving fees in excess of £25,000. 
Where no committee meeting is 
scheduled within an appropriate  
time frame, approval is sought from 
the committee Chairman and 
subsequently ratified at the next 
meeting. All non-audit services 
provided by the external auditors are 
reported to the committee at its next 
scheduled meeting. The external 
auditors are excluded from performing 
any day-to-day accountancy work  
for the Group. The policy also sets out 
the criteria to be followed when 
considering whether external auditors 
should be engaged to undertake  
non-audit services with the aim of 
safeguarding the external auditors’ 
objectivity and independence.
The committee is satisfied with the 
performance of the external auditors 
during the year, and the policies and 
procedures in place to maintain their 
objectivity and independence, and 
has recommended that they be  
re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
Internal Audit 
The committee approves the  
annual audit plan and internal audit 
methodology for the Internal Audit 
department and monitors progress 
against the plan during the year.  
Audit reports are circulated to the 
committee members after each  
audit and the committee monitors 
progress against actions identified  
in these reports and the external 
auditors’ management letter.
The Internal Audit department acts 
under agreed terms of reference  
and the committee has established  
a number of procedures to monitor  
and review the Internal Audit 
department’s effectiveness using 
guidance from a self-assessment 
questionnaire prepared by Internal 
Audit, feedback from senior 
management and a review of the 
Institute of Internal Auditors’ Standards 
for the Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing. The committee also assesses 
annually the resources the 
department has to complete its remit. 
The committee reviews the 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
department on an annual basis.  
The Internal Audit department has 
unrestricted access to all Group 
documentation, premises, functions 
and employees as required to  
enable it to perform its functions.  
The appointment and removal of  
the Head of Internal Audit is the 
responsibility of the committee. The 
Head of Internal Audit has direct 
access to the Board and committee 
Chairmen and is accountable to the 
committee. The Head of Internal Audit 
meets regularly with the committee 
Chairman without executive 
management present.
Other activities
During the year other significant 
activities addressed by the  
Committee were as follows:
•  reviewing and updating the Group’s 
policy and procedures relating to 
the appointment of consultants;
•  a presentation from the Head of 
Security that covered risk 
assessments and the improvements 
made in this area;
•  a review of the International Division 
IT systems was undertaken and it was 
clear that there were a number of 
issues relating to the way this had 
been approached;
•  an internal audit review of the 
Group’s central activity of 
bookmaking, focusing on odds 
compilation and betting control;
•  an Internal Audit review into the 
operational controls of Orbis to 
ensure that it effectively supports 
current internal controls;
•  an investigation into staff fraud;
•  an investigation into IT security; and
•  a post implementation review of  
the new processes and changes  
to existing procedures as a direct 
result of the introduction of the 
Gambling Act 2005. 
 
Regular updates are provided to  
the committee on developments  
in financial reporting and risk 
management and related legal and 
corporate governance matters. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 46
Governance
Corporate Responsibility Report
William Hill recognises that its business 
has both social and environmental 
impacts and that it has a responsibility 
to manage these impacts effectively. 
In some areas we are in direct control 
of these impacts, while in others we 
can only attempt to influence the 
actions of others. The Group takes  
its responsibilities to stakeholders 
seriously and implements policies and 
procedures that meet the legitimate 
expectations of shareholders, staff and 
customers and the wider community. 
Board commitment
The Board is committed to taking steps 
to improve continuously its practices in 
the Corporate Responsibility (CR) area 
and to embedding CR issues into its 
corporate governance and operating 
framework. It achieves this aim by 
focusing on the following material issues:
•  compliance with existing laws, 
regulations and codes of conduct 
relating to responsible gambling; 
underage gambling and protection 
of the vulnerable; prevention  
of crime and disorder related  
to gambling; and product  
integrity issues;
•  the ongoing training, development 
and motivation of employees to 
retain the widest possible range  
of talented staff;
•  provision of a safe and healthy 
workplace in accordance with 
relevant legislation; and
•  providing a competition-beating  
level of customer service.
A non-executive director, David 
Edmonds, chairs the Corporate 
Responsibility and Regulated Issues 
(CRRI) Committee. Its other members 
are Charles Scott, Chairman of the 
Company, Ralph Topping, Chief 
Executive, Ashley Highfield, Non-
Executive Director and Thomas 
Murphy, General Counsel & Company 
Secretary. This Committee monitors  
a range of CRRI issues throughout  
the year. 
The CRRI Committee reports regularly 
to the Board and all Board members 
ensure that, through a process of 
presentation and discussion with  
staff, they have been properly briefed 
and have gained an appropriate 
understanding of the CRRI issues 
affecting the Group. 
For part of the year, the committee 
was assisted by the CR Working Group. 
The CR Working Group was chaired by 
the Company Secretary and 
comprised the functional heads for 
corporate strategy and development, 
human resources, property, security, 
customer services and compliance, 
together with representatives from  
the Retail and Remote businesses. An 
action plan detailing work carried out 
since 2004 and revised and updated 
on an ongoing basis was considered 
by this Group with progress on 
outstanding actions monitored. The 
Working Group acted as a forum for 
operational management to discuss 
CR issues and reports were provided 
by working group members on CR 
issues arising from their particular 
areas of responsibility. The Working 
Group has now been replaced by the 
Regulatory and Compliance Steering 
Group. The main aim of the Steering 
Group is to discuss, review and 
implement policies and procedures 
concerned with compliance and 
regulatory issues. 
CR highlights 2008 
The year saw William Hill further 
enhance its procedures on core issues, 
including responsible gambling and 
staff training.
2008 highlights include:
•  a good working relationship 
established with the Gambling 
Commission and overseas regulators;
•  successful ongoing compliance with 
all relevant policies and procedures 
required under the Gambling Act 
2005 (the Act);
•  staff training refresher course 
programmes under which relevant 
staff were reminded of their specific 
responsibilities under the Act  
and Gambling Commission  
codes and conditions;
•  an employee engagement survey, 
which received responses from 
almost 10,000 people (65% of  
total workforce);
•  successful launch of a new corporate 
website; and 
•  the largest ever staff communications 
presentation held for employees of 
the Group at three top sporting 
venues in the UK. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Gambling Act 2005
William Hill continues to work closely 
with the Gambling Commission in 
furthering of the three licensing 
objectives under the Act, namely:
•  to prevent gambling from being a 
source of crime or disorder, being 
associated with crime or disorder  
or being used to support crime;
•  to ensure that gambling is 
conducted in a fair and open  
way; and
•  to protect children and other 
vulnerable persons from being 
harmed or exploited by gambling.
During 2008, William Hill continued  
to be heavily involved in ongoing 
discussions and consultation with the 
Gambling Commission and its 
sponsoring government department, 
(the DCMS), both directly and via its 
trade associations the Association of 
British Bookmakers (ABB) and the 
Remote Gambling Association (RGA). 
Crime and disorder
William Hill is committed to 
compliance with regulation to prevent 
gambling from being a source of  
crime or disorder, being associated  
with crime or disorder, or being used  
to support crime.
Actions
•  A designated Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer (MLRO) takes 
responsibility for suspicious activity 
reports made to the Serious Organised 
Crime Agency and its equivalent in 
offshore jurisdictions in respect of the 
prevention and detection of money 
laundering and our obligations under 
the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and 
for reports made under the Money 
Laundering Regulations 2007.
•  All staff receive training detailing 
their obligations in respect of money 
laundering reporting. They are aware  
of the procedures in place for the 
escalation of any suspected 
incidents to the MLRO.
•  We train our employees to adhere 
to procedures for the safe handling 
of cash and cash equivalents.
•  The Group is a member of the 
Crimestoppers scheme. This, in 
conjunction with the Association of 
British Bookmakers reward scheme, 
enables us to encourage the public 
to provide information in relation to 
offences committed against both 
staff and property. Crimestoppers 
leaflets are available in every LBO.
•  William Hill’s Security Department 
undertakes an ongoing risk 
assessment process for all our LBOs, 
considering their potential vulnerability 
to robberies and violence in the 
workplace. Appropriate crime 
prevention measures are introduced 
to meet the perceived risk. Such 
measures include the fitting of security 
screens in vulnerable shops, installation 
of digital closed circuit television 
(CCTV) systems and fitting of 
electronic and magnetic door locks.  
In the event of an incident occurring, 
affected shops are reassessed by  
the Security Department and steps 
taken to minimise further risk, where 
appropriate. We liaise closely  
with a number of local authority 
environmental health departments, 
local authority licensing officers  
and police crime prevention officers.
•  We provide the Gambling 
Commission with information we 
suspect may relate to the committing 
of an offence under the Gambling 
Act 2005 or a breach of the 
Commission’s licence conditions  
and codes of practice and with any 
information we suspect may lead  
to the making by the Commission  
of an order to void a bet. The Group 
co-operates with the ABB on integrity 
issues and also provides information 
on any suspicious transactions 
directly to those sporting authorities 
named under Schedule 6 Part 3 of 
the Act. We have co-operated with 
the Commission this year in a number 
of investigations involving suspicious 
betting patterns, fraud and illegal 
betting activity.
Responsible and underage gambling
Gambling is an exciting form  
of entertainment that can be 
experienced in a range of 
environments with William Hill, namely 
our LBOs, on racetracks, through the 
Internet and by telephone. Whereas  
for most customers, gambling is an 
enjoyable leisure activity, for a very 
small number there can be problems 
and gambling can cease to be fun.
William Hill encourages a socially 
responsible attitude within the  
betting and gaming industry and 
within our own organisation. We are 
committed to protecting children  
and the vulnerable from being 
harmed or exploited by gambling.
We are working closely with the 
Gambling Commission in the UK and 
our offshore regulators in Gibraltar  
and Malta to ensure that we continue 
to adhere to the highest industry 
standards in responsible gambling.  
We are also committed to listening to 
the views of relevant stakeholder 
groups and have an active dialogue 
with GamCare, the national centre for 
information, advice and practical help 
for anyone with a gambling problem. 
Our commitment to implementing 
appropriate procedures within our 
organisation to deal with problem 
gambling and to encourage 
responsible gambling is paramount. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48
Actions
•  We are a major contributor to the 
Responsibility in Gambling Trust 
(RIGT). RIGT aims to provide support 
to persons who experience 
problems with their gambling and 
their dependants, to educate 
vulnerable persons about the risk of 
gambling and to conduct research 
into the best ways of providing that 
support and education. 
•  Information on the tools available  
to customers to monitor or control 
their gambling is available through 
leaflets on display in our LBOs or  
at racetracks, via our operational 
websites and via our customer 
services department. We also 
provide information to customers’ 
relatives and friends who may 
approach us asking for help.
•  We use clear notices in our LBOs and 
on gambling websites stating that the 
minimum age to use the facilities is 18. 
In our LBOs and on racetracks we have 
adopted a ‘Think 21’ approach which 
requires our staff to seek proof of age 
from any customer who appears to 
them to be under 21. In the UK and, 
where publicly available, overseas,  
we use an external agency to verify 
the ages of customers opening new 
internet or telephone accounts  
using deposit methods that may be 
available to under-18s. All parts of the 
business have established procedures 
to be followed in the event that we 
believe that a customer may be  
under the age of 18.
Governance
Corporate Responsibility Report
•  We provide a facility for individuals to 
self-exclude from identified licensed 
betting offices and telephone and 
internet accounts for a period of no 
fewer than six months and up to five 
years. Customers who wish to resume 
business with us at the end of their 
chosen self-exclusion period are 
required to complete a further  
24-hour ‘cooling off’ period before 
they will be permitted to resume  
use of our gambling facilities.
•  During 2008 the number of customers 
who chose to self-exclude from the 
Group’s services in Retail was 3,382 
(2007 - 1,563) and in Remote was  
3,163 (2007 – 1,826).
•  We provide a facility for telephone 
and internet customers to limit the 
amounts they are able to deposit 
with us in any 24-hour period. Once 
set, a deposit limit can only be 
increased after a 24-hour ‘cooling  
off’ period.
•  Although there is no one set of 
behaviours definitively identifying 
customers with gambling problems, 
William Hill encourages its employees 
to use their experience and to be 
aware of customers whose behaviour 
may indicate problem gambling.  
We have procedures in place to 
escalate any concerns and to 
consider whether or not it is 
appropriate to initiate interaction 
with a customer. When interaction 
does take place the customer will be 
provided with contact details of a 
gambling charity and with detailed 
information on the tools available to 
control their gambling behaviour. 
William Hill provides customers with 
the information required to enable 
them to make informed decisions 
about their level of gambling but 
does not take those decisions on  
the customer’s behalf.
•  William Hill takes particular care not 
to target advertising at people under 
the age of 18. All our advertising is 
carefully considered in light of the 
Gambling Commission’s licensing 
objectives, the specific requirements 
of the Gambling Commission’s 
licence conditions and codes of 
practice and the Committee of 
Advertising Practice and Broadcast 
Committee of Advertising Practice 
codes. In addition, we adhere to an 
industry code of practice designed 
to promote socially responsible 
advertising and the RIGT’s ‘gamble 
aware’ information website. The 
advertising agencies we use are  
fully briefed on our requirements 
concerning responsible gambling.
•  William Hill does not enter into 
contracts of employment with any 
individual under the age of 18.
•  All William Hill employees receive 
training giving them an overall 
awareness of our commitment to 
social responsibility and the detailed 
procedural knowledge appropriate 
to their specific business role. We will 
continue to monitor best practice in 
the area of responsible gambling as it 
develops and will review our policies  
and procedures on a regular basis in 
the light of guidance from regulators, 
gambling charities and our own  
practical experience.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Employees
The Group’s success is dependent  
on its employees and it is committed 
to high standards of employment 
practice. The Group rewards 
individuals fairly and is committed  
to providing equality of opportunity, 
training and development and a  
safe workplace. 
A comprehensive set of human 
resources policies is in place including 
documents covering health and 
safety (including specific policies on 
stress management and smoking), 
equal opportunities and harassment, 
disability, flexible working, training and 
development, the acceptance of gifts 
and hospitality, and whistle-blowing. 
These are communicated to 
employees as appropriate.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to equal 
opportunities in the workplace. In all 
aspects of employment including 
recruitment, promotion, training  
and development and terms and 
conditions of employment, all 
employees and applicants for 
employment are given equal 
opportunities regardless of gender, 
marital or family status, race, 
nationality, ethnic origin, religion,  
age, disability and sexual orientation.
The Group endeavours to ensure that 
all employees are made aware of the 
provisions of the policy and of their 
responsibility to uphold and promote it. 
The Group will not tolerate harassment, 
discrimination or victimisation in the 
workplace in any form. The Human 
Resources Director has overall 
responsibility for ensuring the effective 
operation of the policy.
Relevant policies are communicated 
to Group employees and there are 
clear lines of responsibility regarding 
monitoring their effectiveness, 
implementation and communication 
to staff. 
The Group’s current workforce is 57% 
female (2007 – 57%) and 43% male 
(2007 – 43%).
Training and development
The Group is committed to investing  
in the training and development of  
all employees.
Initial induction training is provided for 
all employees at the commencement 
of employment, supported if necessary 
by skills training relevant to their 
particular role. The Group undertakes  
to provide further training and 
development opportunities throughout 
individuals’ careers to enable them  
to maintain and improve standards  
of performance, cope effectively with 
any changes to the work environment, 
develop their skills, and allow them  
to realise their full potential.
Where opportunities arise, on-job 
development will also be provided 
where appropriate through 
secondments to other positions, 
departments or membership of  
special project groups.
The Group is also committed to raising 
staff awareness of social responsibility 
and responsible gambling and 
providing the necessary training  
in these areas.
A management development policy  
is in place that focuses on identifying 
individuals within the organisation  
that demonstrate the personal drive 
and ability to operate at a more senior 
level. The Group-wide performance 
management process identifies 
specific individual development needs 
and provides evidence of exceptional 
performance. For those who are seen 
as having the potential to succeed into 
senior management and leadership 
roles in the future, the performance 
management process forms the basis 
of the application to the Talent Board 
and entry into the Group-wide talent 
pool. Selection for further training and 
development is always based on 
individual needs and abilities and the 
needs of the business.
The average length of service across 
the Group is five years and nine months 
(2007 – five years and four months) 
whereas LBO managers’ average 
length of service is 13 years and  
five months (2007 – 13 years and  
one month).
Communication
William Hill places considerable value 
on the involvement of its employees 
and is committed to providing 
effective communication on matters 
that may affect them and, more 
generally, regarding the development 
and performance of the Group. This is 
achieved through formal and informal 
meetings, and the Group produces  
an in-house magazine six times a year, 
which is circulated to all employees. 
Employee representatives are 
consulted regularly on a wide range 
of matters affecting their current and 
future interests and are encouraged 
to raise any issues or concerns.
The Group has established staff 
councils for retail staff in each of the 
Group’s geographic regions, which  
are chaired by the relevant Regional 
Director, together with councils for the 
Group’s major administrative centre. 
Each council meets four times a year, 
with the aim of providing an additional 
channel of consultation between 
directors, management and staff and 
to make the fullest use of employees’ 
experience and ideas. Representatives 
from the retail staff councils attend  
the National Staff Conference held  
at least three times a year, which is 
chaired jointly by the Retail Operations 
Director and the Group Director, 
Human Resources.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 50
Sharesave
On an annual basis since the Group’s 
flotation in 2002, employees with 
minimum service of one year have 
been able to participate in the William 
Hill Sharesave Scheme for a period of 
three, five or seven years. The 2008 
scheme attracted 1,797 staff savers.
Health and safety
A copy of the Group’s health  
and safety policy is available at  
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. A Health and 
Safety Steering Group meets regularly 
to review compliance with applicable 
health and safety legislation and 
regulation, to keep up to date with  
best practice and to review and 
maintain compliance with health  
and safety procedures. The Steering 
Group includes senior managers  
from the Group’s human resources, 
security, property and LSR departments, 
together with representatives of 
operational management. An external 
health and safety consultant advises 
the Steering Group. 
Staff are provided with information and 
training on health and safety issues as 
part of their induction and on an 
ongoing basis. Risk assessments are 
undertaken and the Group monitors 
the application and understanding  
of safety instructions through a system 
of safety audits, Health and Safety  
Co-ordinators and the Health and 
Safety Steering Group.
Human rights policy
William Hill is committed to 
undertaking its operations in a way 
which respects individual’s human 
rights and treats individuals’ with 
dignity and respect. 
Governance
Corporate Responsibility Report
We support the basic principles 
described in the UN Global Compact 
(derived from the principles in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights) 
and this policy sets out our approach 
as it relates to our workforce.
•  We will not employ individuals  
who are under 18 years of age.
•  We will not use forced or  
compulsory labour.
•  Working hours will comply with 
relevant laws and regulations.
•  We will offer wages and benefits 
which are consistent with relevant 
laws and industry standards.
•  We will respect the right of 
individuals to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining.
•  We are committed to safe and 
healthy working conditions for  
our employees.
•  We are committed to diversity in the 
working environment and will not 
tolerate harassment, discrimination  
or victimisation in the workplace.
Environment
A copy of the Group’s  
environmental policy is available at 
www.williamhillplc.co.uk. As a retail 
and service organisation, the Group’s 
main impact on the environment is 
through the buildings in which William 
Hill operates and the resources used 
by staff in their day-to-day work. The 
Group’s environmental practices 
reflect William Hill’s business operations 
and its main risks and interactions with 
the environment, and are largely 
focused on:
•  compliance with environmental  
laws and regulations;
•  minimising waste by the promotion 
of recycling practices and re-use of 
materials as opposed to disposal, 
where this is practicable;
•  efficient use of energy and water 
and investigating ways of reducing 
consumption in this area; and
•  raising awareness of environmental 
issues within the Group.
The Group is delighted to be part  
of the FTSE4Good Index.
Actions
The Group’s property department 
takes primary responsibility for 
identifying issues and opportunities 
within the Group’s LBO estate and 
Head Office. The following actions 
have been taken:
•  high-frequency light fittings are 
specified in all new development 
and refurbishment projects thereby 
reducing the number of lamps 
requiring disposal;
•  the Group is fully compliant with  
all current legislative guidelines 
regarding the disposal of hazardous 
waste and complies with the Waste, 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
Directive, which was introduced  
in 2007;
•  air-conditioning and fascia lighting 
are controlled by time clocks to 
ensure efficient use of energy;
•  PIR’s have been installed on a trial 
basis at Head Office to reduce 
electricity consumption; 
•  new-style fascias continue to be 
rolled out as LBOs are upgraded, 
which will further reduce electricity 
consumption;
•  more energy-efficient (inverter) air 
conditioning units continue to be 
installed on new projects and when 
replacements are required; and
•  water management systems for 
toilet facilities are used to reduce 
water consumption and an 
increasing proportion of the LBO 
estate is fitted with water meters. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
Facilities for recycling paper and toner 
cartridges are in place at the Group’s 
Head Office and regional office 
buildings. The Group has been unable 
to establish an energy and cost- 
efficient method of recycling from its  
retail establishments. Possible solutions 
have been considered during the 
year and the Group is keen to  
progress in this area.
The Group continues to work with the 
Carbon Trust in an effort to further 
reduce carbon emissions. Historically, 
the Group has found it difficult to 
establish accurate utility consumption 
data covering all its 2,300 premises.  
An exercise by which quarterly meter 
readings were taken at a sample of 
representative Group premises 
throughout the UK has been carried 
out and this type of base line data  
is used to determine future policy. 
Access to services
Customers with disabilities have a 
rights’ of access to the Group’s 
services. Accessibility issues are taken 
into account in accordance with 
appropriate codes of practice when 
opening and refitting the Group’s 
LBOs, and a combination of ramps, 
stair lifts, disabled toilets and induction 
loops for the hard of hearing are fitted, 
where appropriate. In addition, 
services offered in the LBOs can be 
accessed on the internet or via the 
telephone. Details of all of these 
services can be obtained from  
the William Hill Customer Helpline.
The Group has implemented a new 
platform for its online services. Care 
has been taken to ensure that this 
application reaches ‘single A’ 
compliance status with the Disability 
Discrimination Act as a minimum.
Suppliers
The Group recognises that it has a 
responsibility to ensure its purchasing 
practices are conducted in a manner 
that ensures compliance with good 
labour and environmental standards 
within its supply chain.
Major suppliers have been asked  
to agree to commit to continuous 
improvement towards the following 
specified standards, both within  
their own companies and those  
of their suppliers, including:
•  to support and act in a manner 
consistent with the principles in  
the Universal Declaration of  
Human Rights;
•  ensure that all employment laws 
within the country of operation  
are adhered to;
•  no children are employed within  
the supply chain who are below  
the local legal minimum age;
•  employees wages and benefits  
meet local industry benchmarks  
and national minimum requirements;
•  operate a comprehensive policy of 
equal opportunity in employment;
•  ensure compliance with all national 
and local health and safety 
regulations and procedures  
in the countries of operation;
•  ensure compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations; and
•  encourage the development  
of environmentally friendly  
working practices. 
Customers and communities
Customer service
A commitment to high standards of 
customer service and to the fair and 
open conduct of its gambling 
operations is key to William Hill.  The 
Group’s continued success depends 
on its customers. Dedicated customer 
service departments are in place for 
both the retail and the remote 
channels. Service complaints are 
considered seriously and consistent, 
monitored procedures are in place 
across the Group.  
During 2008, the retail business 
continued with its Competition Beating 
Service (CBS) programme, the aim of 
which is to ensure a positive in-shop 
experience for customers. CBS has 
quickly been established as an 
essential element of the retail business 
and the Group believes that it will  
play a vital part in the business’s future 
success. District Operations Managers 
review performance against CBS 
standards on a regular basis and agree 
action plans to tackle any issues. For  
an external viewpoint on the levels of 
customer service experienced in LBOs, 
the Group uses a mystery shopper 
programme provided by Retail Eyes,  
an international company specialising 
in customer service.  A scoring system 
that measures the effectiveness of  
CBS is in place and top performers  
are identified and rewarded.
Our comprehensive betting rules,  
which detail the terms and conditions 
under which all transactions placed 
with William Hill are accepted, were 
reviewed during 2008 with an 
amended version scheduled to be 
introduced in February 2009. The  
Group endeavours to resolve all  
betting disputes in a fair, consistent  
and equitable manner. However, if 
these are unable to be resolved to the 
customer’s satisfaction the customer  
is entitled to refer the matter to the 
Independent Betting Adjudication 
Service (IBAS). William Hill has agreed  
to abide by any ruling they make. 
During 2008, 306 (2007 - 274) disputes 
were referred to IBAS. In 5% (2007 – 4%) 
of cases IBAS found in favour of  
the customer.
Although gambling transactions 
became legally enforceable contracts 
in September 2007 and are subject to 
relevant consumer contract legislation, 
the majority of disputes continue to be 
adjudicated on by IBAS, the 
acknowledged industry expert. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 52
Governance
Corporate Responsibility Report
Product integrity
William Hill has a number of products 
where the outcome of an event is 
determined by a random number 
generator (RNG). RNGs are 
administered either by external third 
parties or by the Group itself. The 
Group has introduced rigorous 
internal/third-party procedures to 
ensure that the randomness of its own 
RNGs is certified, game outcomes are 
fair and payouts correct, games are 
free from defects and function to 
specifications, and that the games are 
secure and do not compromise either 
the player or William Hill. The Group 
continues to work with suppliers with 
the objective of ensuring they adopt  
a high level of fairness testing.
Privacy
The Group has systems in place to 
protect the privacy of information 
provided by customers. William Hill 
complies with the Data Protection  
Act 1998 and the Data Protection 
Principles set out in that Act in the 
collection and processing of personal 
information. A copy of the Group’s 
privacy policy is available at  
www.williamhill.com.
Supporting sports-related  
and other bodies
William Hill is committed to being a 
responsible corporate citizen and 
recognises its wider social responsibility 
by seeking to support the communities 
in which the Group operates through 
charitable donations and other  
relevant payments.
Levies
The Group supports horse racing via 
the statutory levy and greyhound 
racing via the voluntary donation to 
the British Greyhound Racing Fund 
(BGRF). The sums payable for 2008 
were £23.9m and £2.9m respectively. 
These funds are used by the respective 
bodies for a wide variety of purposes, 
including animal welfare issues.
A budget has been independently 
established for the greyhound stadia  
to be used to assist with greyhound 
welfare issues. The Group funds an 
establishment which will enable up  
to 24 dogs to be housed for up to  
six months with the intention of 
permanently re-homing them. During 
2008, 130 greyhounds were successfully 
re-homed by this facility and the 
benefits of retired greyhounds as pets 
are actively promoted at the stadia.
The Group recognises the depth of 
public concern surrounding press 
coverage regarding the fate of 
greyhounds no longer required for 
racing. Every trainer affiliated to a 
William Hill track is required to complete 
a weekly return listing dogs available 
for racing, injured dogs and those  
dogs who have left the trainer’s 
kennels. Trainers must provide full  
details of any individual to whom  
care of a dog has been passed. 
Charitable donations
The Group’s charitable donations are 
mainly focused on organisations 
involved in areas of greatest 
relevance to the William Hill business. 
The Board has adopted a charitable 
donations policy stating that the major 
focus of the Group’s efforts will be in 
supporting bodies involved in:
•  promoting a responsible approach to 
gambling; undertaking research into 
problem gambling; and providing 
information, advice and help to those 
who are at risk or are experiencing 
difficulties with their gambling;
•  greyhound and racehorse  
welfare; and
•  supporting disadvantaged individuals 
in horse and greyhound racing.
The Group is also committed to 
providing support, wherever possible, 
to its employees in their own 
fundraising efforts. The Group allocates 
a proportion of its annual charitable 
donations budget to match funds  
(up to a specified limit) raised by 
employees on local charitable 
projects. During 2008, the nominated 
charities of staff members benefited 
by £29,030 from the matching scheme, 
with staff endeavours, including 
marathon running and parachute 
jumps. On occasion, the Group also 
supports organisations with whom it 
does business in their fundraising 
efforts, and in such cases donations 
may not fall within the donations 
policy referred to above.
During 2008, the Group made 
charitable donations of £772,733, the 
largest proportion of which, was paid  
to the Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
The Group has established a 
Charitable Donations Committee, 
which reviews on a quarterly basis 
requests for charitable donations 
against the Board’s agreed policy.
William Hill does not make donations  
to political parties.
CR actions for 2009
In 2009, the Group intends to continue 
to progress those initiatives that are 
already ongoing and will concentrate 
on the following:
•  enhancing recycling possibilities;
•  reducing the use of water and 
electricity;
•  maintaining the current position of 
fleet cars with low CO
2
 emissions;
•  providing a competition-beating 
service to our customers; and
•  continuing to work closely with the 
Gambling Commission and overseas 
regulators to ensure we continue to 
operate to the highest standard on 
social responsibility and integrity issues. Governance Company information Governance Financial Statements Company information
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53
Financial Statement
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. The directors are required  
by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  
as adopted by the European Union. The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly, for each financial year, the Group’s 
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and presentation of 
financial statements’.’ In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS. 
However, directors are also required to:
•  select and apply accounting policies properly;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information; and 
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable  
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial  
position and financial performance.
Company
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The parent company financial 
statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.  
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures  
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the  
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
1.  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
2.  the Business Review, which is incorporated into the directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board
RJ Topping SP Lane
27 February 2009 27 February 2009 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 54
To the members of William Hill PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Group Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 40. These 
Group Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended  
30 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group 
Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given  
in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements. The information given in  
the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross-referred from  
the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our  
audit or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Statement on Corporate Governance reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to 
any further information outside the Annual Report.
 
Financial Statement
Group Independent Auditors’ Report William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 
Group financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of 
the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements and of 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
Group Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European  
Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 December 2008 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended;
•  The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; 
•  The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
•  The information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
As explained in the statement of Group accounting policies, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to 
comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Group’s 
affairs as at 30 December 2008 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
United Kingdom
27 February 2009 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 56
Notes
Before exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional items 
(note 3)
£m
52 weeks  
ended
30 December 2008
Total
£m
53 weeks
 ended
1 January 2008
(as restated see 
page 67)
£m
Continuing operations
Amounts wagered 2 15,553.9 - 15,553.9 14,797.1
Revenue 1,2 963.7 - 963.7 933.6
Cost of sales 2 (166.2) - (166.2) (170.4)
Gross profit 2 797.5 - 797.5 763.2
Other operating income 1 6.9 - 6.9 10.4
Other operating expenses (522.9) - (522.9) (487.6)
Exceptional operating expense 3 - (5.4) (5.4) (20.9)
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 4 (2.9) (5.4) (8.3) 0.7
Operating profit 5 278.6 (10.8) 267.8 265.8
Exceptional items 3 - 88.0 88.0 6.7
Investment income 7 27.0 - 27.0 24.3
Finance costs 8 (89.5) - (89.5) (87.6)
Profit before tax 2 216.1 77.2 293.3 209.2
Tax 3,9 (58.3) (1.0) (59.3) (51.8)
Profit for the period 32 157.8 76.2 234.0 157.4
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 11 67.3 44.7
Diluted 11 66.8 44.3
Consolidated Statement of Recognised  
Income and Expense 
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Notes
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Loss on cash flow hedges 31 (32.0) (1.6)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme 38 (31.5) 12.9
Tax on items taken directly to equity 25 20.5 (1.3)
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity (43.0) 10.0
Transferred to income statement on cash flow hedges 31 (9.6) (7.6)
Profit for the period 234.0 157.4
Total recognised income and expense for the period 181.4 159.8
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Consolidated Balance Sheet
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Notes
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 1,491.5 1,365.9
Property, plant and equipment 13 209.6 214.7
Interest in associates and joint ventures 15 6.6 12.7
Deferred tax asset 25 19.6 1.9
1,727.3 1,595.2
Current assets
Inventories 16 0.5 0.6
Trade and other receivables 17 31.6 32.3
Cash and cash equivalents 17 76.5 69.4
Derivative financial instruments 23 - 5.2
108.6 107.5
Total assets 1,835.9 1,702.7
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (109.2) (90.8)
Current tax liabilities (61.1) (51.8)
Borrowings 19 (0.8) (1.2)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (41.5) (4.7)
(212.6) (148.5)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (1,068.4) (1,152.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 38 (25.9) (3.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (171.4) (165.7)
(1,265.7) (1,321.1)
Total liabilities (1,478.3) (1,469.6)
Net assets 357.6 233.1
Equity
Called-up share capital 26 35.4 35.4
Capital redemption reserve 28 6.8 6.8
Merger reserve 29 (26.1) (26.1)
Own shares held 30 (31.1) (34.4)
Hedging and translation reserves 31 (26.2) 3.2
Retained earnings 32 389.3 248.2
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 348.1 233.1
Minority interest 33 9.5 -
Total equity 357.6 233.1
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2009 and are signed 
on its behalf by:
RJ Topping SP Lane
Director Director William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 58
Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Notes
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Net cash from operating activities 35 209.9 149.6
Investing activities
Dividend from associate 2.9 2.0
Interest received 12.9 11.6
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.6 5.7
Proceeds on disposal of shares in joint ventures and associates 2.1 1.8
Proceeds on exceptional sale of freehold properties 4.5 9.8
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (28.0) (42.8)
Purchases of betting licences (0.4) (5.3)
Expenditure on computer software (25.0) (15.8)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 34 (1.5) (25.2)
Investment in joint ventures (6.2) (8.2)
Net cash used in investing activities (37.1) (66.4)
Financing activities
Purchase of own shares - (47.9)
SAYE share option redemptions 0.7 4.4
Dividends paid 10 (80.8) (78.5)
Repayments of borrowings (85.6) -
New bank loans raised - 9.7
Collar premiums paid - (0.2)
Net cash used in financing activities (165.7) (112.5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period 7.1 (29.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 69.4 98.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 76.5 69.4 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
General information
William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered 
office is Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London, N22 7TP . The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 17 and also note 2 of these financial statements.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards
In preparing the Group financial statements for the current year the Group has adopted the following new International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), amendments to IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) interpretations, which have not had a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures;
IFRIC 11  IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions;
IFRIC 14  IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
At the date of authorisation of these Group financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have  
not been applied in these Group financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 1 (amended)  IAS 27 (amended) – Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate;
IFRS 2 (amended)  Share-based Payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations;
IFRS 3 (revised 2008)  Business Combinations;
IFRS 8 Operating segments;
IAS 1 (revised 2007)  Presentation of Financial Statements;
IAS 23 (revised 2007) Borrowing Costs;
IAS 27 (revised 2008)  Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements;
IAS 32 (amended)  IAS 1 (amended) – Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation;
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements;
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes;
IFRIC 15  Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate;
IFRIC 16  Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation; and
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material  
impact on the financial statements of the Group. 
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 60
Basis of accounting
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. The Group financial statements have also  
been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements  
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial 
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to 30 December 2008. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the  
financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement  
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combination
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount  
on acquisition) is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
Investment in associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, 
through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the  
Group and one or more venturers under a contractual agreement.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated in these Group financial statements using  
the equity method of accounting. Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted 
by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment in the value of individual 
investments. Losses of the associates and joint ventures in excess of the Group’s interest in those entities are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the entity at the 
date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values 
of the identifiable net assets of the entity at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to profit and loss in 
the period of acquisition. 
Where a Group company transacts with an associate or joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant entity. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred  
in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value  
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill  
is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in  
the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment. 
Financial Statements
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers and represents amounts 
receivable for goods and services that the Group is in business to provide net of discounts, marketing inducements, VAT and 
other sales related taxes, as set out below.
In the case of the LBO, telephone, interactive Sportsbook businesses and online casino operations (including games on the 
online arcade and other numbers bets), revenue represents gains and losses from betting activity in the period. Open positions 
are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and 
losses realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income (‘rake’) earned from poker games completed by the period end.
Amounts wagered represents the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed in the period  
on events for LBO, telephone and interactive Sportsbook businesses, net winnings on gaming activity completed by period  
end for online casinos and net income earned from poker games completed by period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the 
period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
Investment income 
Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Fair value gains on interest rate hedges
Amounts are recognised in the income statement on a received basis in line with the terms of the ‘hedge’ contract.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards  
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in 
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of 
the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are 
charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains 
and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on  
non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group makes every effort to match its foreign currency 
assets and liabilities. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the 
balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange 
rates fluctuate significantly, in which case the spot rate for significant items is used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified 
as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses 
in the period in which the operation is disposed of. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 62
Finance costs
Finance costs of borrowings are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of those borrowings at a constant  
rate on the carrying amount.
Government grants
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit  
and loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional operating items and after the share of results of associates and joint 
ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
 
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in  
the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised income 
and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised  
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. The interest cost and the expected return  
on assets are included in finance costs and investment income as appropriate.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from  
this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions  
to the plan.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets  
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised  
if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination)  
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that  
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset  
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be one-off or material in nature that should be brought to the reader’s 
attention in understanding the Group’s financial performance.
Financial Statements
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Internally generated intangible assets – computer software and systems
Expenditure on initial investigation and design of computer software and systems is recognised as an expense in the  
period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development of computer systems is recognised only  
if all of the following conditions are met:
•  An asset is created that can be identified (such as software and new processes);
•  It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
•  The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally between two  
and ten years. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised  
as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
Intangible assets – licences
Betting licences are recorded at cost, or if arising in an acquisition, at their fair value. They are judged to have an indefinite  
life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews. The directors consider that the  
Group’s licences have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well-established  
market; the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services; and the Group’s track record of successfully renewing  
its betting permits and licences.
Intangible assets – trade names, affiliate relationships and non-competition agreements
Trade names, affiliate relationships and non-competition agreements (NCA) are recorded at cost, or if arising in an acquisition, 
at their fair value.
Amortisation is provided on Trade names, affiliate relationships, and NCA at rates calculated to write off the cost  
or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:
Trade names - five years
Affiliate relationships - five years
Non-competition agreements  - over the life of the agreement
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings held for use in the supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance  
sheet at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. 
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost  
or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings  - 50 years
Long leasehold properties - 50 years
Short leasehold properties - over the unexpired period of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment and motor vehicles - at variable rates between three and 10 years
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds  
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 64
Financial Statements
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, tangible and intangible assets, and 
interests in associates and joint ventures to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an 
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite 
useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows, which are based on the budgeted figures for the following year and subsequently an annual growth rate of 2.4%,  
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value  
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years.  
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories
Inventories represent stocks of consumables in stores and goods for resale within the greyhound stadia. They are stated at the 
lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ from 31 December 2003. In accordance with the 
transition provisions included in IFRS 2, its provisions have been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested  
as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an Inland Revenue approved Save 
As You Earn (SAYE) share option scheme open to all eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.  
The cost to the Group of share-based payment plans is measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is expensed  
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula. The expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted, based on management’s best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions 
applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in note 37.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party  
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits held by the Group with an original maturity  
of three months or less.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value as reduced by appropriate allowances  
for estimated irrecoverable amounts.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an 
accrual basis to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost. Any accrued finance costs are included in accruals and deferred income 
within trade and other payables.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value and subsequently at their amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  
The Group uses interest rate swap and collar contracts to hedge its interest rate exposure and retains cash balances in foreign 
currencies matched against its foreign currency liabilities (client deposit accounts) to hedge its exposure to foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide  
written principles on the use of financial derivatives. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash  
flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit and loss and is included  
in the income statement under finance costs. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in 
the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For 
hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the line of  
the income statement relating to the hedged item, in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 
income statement in the same line as the hedged item, as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain 
or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when  
their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at  
fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement, under other operating expenses.
Bets are carried at fair market value as they meet the definition of a derivative. The resulting gains and losses from bets  
are included in revenue. Assets or liabilities resulting from open positions are reported gross in financial assets and financial 
liabilities under the term derivative financial instruments. 
Going concern
As highlighted in note 21 and 22 to the Group Financial Statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital 
requirements through loan facilities, a substantial part of which is due for renewal on 1 March 2010. As noted in the ‘Refinancing’ 
section of the Chairman’s Statement, the Group has successfully concluded negotiations with its bankers for the renewal of 
these facilities in part and has agreed a fully underwritten rights issue to cover a potential funding shortfall. Whilst current 
economic conditions create uncertainty over the level of demand for the Group’s products; the Group’s forecasts and 
projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able  
to operate within the level of its new facility.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going  
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 66
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in this Statement of Group Accounting Policies,  
the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
The item below is a critical judgement that the directors believe has a significant effect on the amounts recognised in  
these financial statements.
Acquisition and disposal
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill. During the period the Group has acquired certain assets from Playtech Limited as described in note 34 to these 
financial statements. The transaction involved the exchange of assets and businesses for a non-cash consideration. The directors 
have exercised judgement in determining the total fair value to be used in measuring both the acquisition cost  
and the consideration used for disposal purposes. In addition, the directors have employed an independent professional advisor 
to assist in ascribing fair values to the acquired assets and exercised their judgement in reviewing and accepting this valuation. 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The estimates and assumptions, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives
Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill or those intangible assets has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity 
to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
present value. Note 12 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements. Actual outcomes could vary .
Fair value of derivatives
As described in note 24, the Group uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on  
its bank borrowings. The directors use their judgement, supported by counterparty confirmations, in selecting appropriate 
valuation techniques for these financial derivatives. Assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific 
features of the instrument. Due to the current economic environment, the assumptions used to determine the fair value are 
subject to additional volatility and may result in changes in future periods.
Retirement benefit costs
The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes depends 
on the selection of certain assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, mortality and expected 
return on scheme assets. Differences arising from actual experiences or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in 
subsequent periods. Note 38 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Financial Statements
Statement of Group Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Revenue (as previously stated) 972.7 940.4
Adjustment for customer bonus schemes, etc (9.0) (6.8)
Revenue restated 963.7 933.6
Cost of sales (as previously stated) (172.6) (174.2)
Adjustment for customer bonus schemes, etc 6.4 3.8
Cost of sales restated (166.2) (170.4)
Other operating expenses (as previously stated) (525.5) (490.6)
Adjustment for customer bonus schemes, etc 2.6 3.0
Other operating expenses restated (522.9) (487.6)
IFRS 7
The Group has adopted IFRS 7. Compliance with this standard has resulted in some minor reclassifications to trade and other 
receivables, details of which are given in note 17.
Changes in accounting policies and restatement of comparatives
Income Statement
As a result of the purchase of the assets, businesses and contracts from Playtech Limited described in note 34, the Group has 
reviewed its revenue recognition policy and treatment of customer bonus schemes, free bets and other promotional offers. The 
Group has revised its presentation of these items in line with current industry practice and has restated a number of lines within 
the Consolidated Income Statement. The change does not impact operating profit and is shown below:  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 68
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
2. Segment information
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three main operating divisions – Retail, Interactive and 
Telephone. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Business segment information for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008:
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
(as restated)
£m
Rendering of services and revenue as disclosed in the consolidated  
income statement
963.7 933.6
Other operating income 6.9 10.4
Interest on bank deposits 3.3 3.7
Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 973.9 947.7
1. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Retail
£m
Interactive
£m
Telephone
£m
Other
£m
Corporate
£m
Group
£m
Amounts wagered 13,567.0 1,414.8 545.0 27.1 - 15,553.9
Payout (12,776.3) (1,289.7) (505.2) (19.0) - (14,590.2)
Revenue 790.7 125.1 39.8 8.1 - 963.7
GPT, duty, levies and other cost of sales (135.6) (20.4) (9.2) (1.0) - (166.2)
Gross profit 655.1 104.7 30.6 7.1 - 797.5
Depreciation (28.0) (4.4) (1.1) (0.3) (2.1) (35.9)
Other administrative expenses (387.0) (45.7) (23.6) (5.6) (18.2) (480.1)
Exceptional operating expense - (5.4) - - - (5.4)
Segment operating profit/(loss)  
pre-exceptional items 240.1 49.2 5.9 1.2 (20.3) 276.1
Exceptional items - 86.4 - - 2.8 89.2
Segment operating profit/(loss)  
after exceptional items 240.1 135.6 5.9 1.2 (17.5) 365.3
Share of result of associates, joint 
ventures, and impairment charges 
(9.5) (9.5)
Investment income 27.0 27.0
Finance costs (89.5) (89.5)
(Loss)/profit before tax (89.5) 293.3 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 69
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
2. Segment information (continued)
Retail
£m
Interactive
£m
Telephone
£m
Other
£m
Corporate
£m
Group
£m
Balance sheet information
Total segment assets 1,363.9 261.0 90.0 15.5 85.9 1,816.3
Total segment liabilities (38.6) (39.0) (8.9) (0.3) (1,181.7) (1,268.5)
Investment in associates  
and joint ventures
- - - - 6.6 6.6
Capital additions 29.5 17.4 4.9 0.3 - 52.1
Included within Total assets:
Goodwill 687.8 183.9 80.4 7.1 - 959.2
Other intangibles with indefinite lives 484.3 - - - - 484.3
Business segment information for the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 (Restated):
Retail
£m
Interactive
£m
Telephone
£m
Other
£m
Corporate
£m
Group
£m
Amounts wagered 13,022.5 1,186.8 559.2 28.6 - 14,797.1
Payout (12,263.2) (1,073.8) (506.2) (20.3) - (13,863.5)
Revenue 759.3 113.0 53.0 8.3 - 933.6
GPT, duty, levies and other cost of sales (137.6) (19.4) (12.3) (1.1) - (170.4)
Gross profit 621.7 93.6 40.7 7.2 - 763.2
Depreciation (26.1) (6.9) (1.5) (0.3) (1.1) (35.9)
Other administrative expenses (365.8) (35.8) (23.1) (5.8) (10.8) (441.3)
Exceptional operating expense - (20.9) - - - (20.9)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 
pre-exceptional items 229.8 30.0 16.1 1.1 (11.9) 265.1
Exceptional items - - - - 6.7 6.7
Segment operating profit/(loss)  
after exceptional items 229.8 30.0 16.1 1.1 (5.2) 271.8
Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.7 0.7
Investment income 24.3 24.3
Finance costs (87.6) (87.6)
(Loss)/profit before tax (67.8) 209.2
Balance sheet information
Total segment assets 1,386.4 117.9 85.0 16.3 95.2 1,700.8
Total segment liabilities (53.5) (25.3) (5.7) (0.5) (1,189.5) (1,274.5)
Investment in associates and joint ventures - - - - 12.7 12.7
Capital additions 42.2 16.1 1.4 0.1 1.0 60.8
Included within Total assets:
Goodwill 687.8 97.2 80.4 7.1 - 872.5
Other intangibles with indefinite lives 483.9 - - - - 483.9 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 70
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
2. Segment information (continued)
The Retail distribution channel comprises all activity undertaken in LBOs including gaming machines. The interactive segment 
comprises all activity undertaken online including an online Sportsbook, online casino, online poker sites and other gaming 
products. The telephone segment comprises the Group’s telephone betting services including telephone bet capture positions 
at its call centres in Leeds and Sheffield. Other activities include on-course betting and greyhound stadia operations.
Net assets/(liabilities) have been allocated by segment where assets and liabilities can be identified with a particular channel. 
Corporate net assets include corporation and deferred tax, net borrowings, and pension liability as well as any assets and 
liabilities that cannot be allocated to a particular channel other than on an arbitrary basis. 
There are no inter-segmental sales within the Group.
In accordance with IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’, segment information by geographical location is not presented as the Group’s 
revenue and profits arise primarily from customers in the United Kingdom, with significantly less than 10% (the minimum required 
by IAS 14 to necessitate disclosure) of revenue and profits generated from customers outside this jurisdiction. Similarly, only a 
small portion of the Group’s net assets is located outside the United Kingdom.
Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
Assets  
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Liabilities  
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Total segment assets/(liabilities) 1,816.3 1,700.8 (1,268.5) (1,274.5)
Current tax assets/(liabilities) - - (38.4) (29.4)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 19.6 1.9 (171.4) (165.7)
Total assets/(liabilities) 1,835.9 1,702.7 (1,478.3) (1,469.6) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Operating
Impairment of assets and costs in relation to termination of NextGen programme 
1
(4.0) (20.9)
Integration costs in respect of William Hill Online 
2
(1.4) -
Impairment of joint ventures 
3
(5.4) -
(10.8) (20.9)
Non-Operating
Gain on disposal of William Hill Online 
4
86.4 -
Sale and leaseback of LBO properties 
5
2.8 6.7
Loss on disposal of joint venture 
6
(1.2) -
88.0 6.7
Total exceptional items 77.2 (14.2)
3. Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be one-off or material in nature that should be brought to the reader’s 
attention in understanding the Group’s financial performance. Exceptional items are as follows:
1
  In November 2007 the Board of directors instigated a review of the NextGen programme. As a result of the review, the programme was terminated. This decision 
resulted in an impairment charge of £20.9m in the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008. The charge consisted of £20.5m internally developed software, and £0.4m 
computer hardware equipment. During the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 further costs of £4.0m have been incurred relating to this decision. There have  
been no impairments in the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008.
2
  Integration costs of £1.4m have been incurred in relation to the William Hill Online transaction. 
3
  The Group is currently in discussions with Codere (its joint venture partner) as to the future direction and levels of investment required for its joint ventures in Spain, 
following the substantive investment of amounts originally committed by each party . In light of this and as a result of the deteriorating economic conditions in Spain,  
the Group has reviewed the carrying value of its Spanish joint ventures, as required by IAS 31 ‘Impairment of assets’. This has resulted in an impairment charge of £5.4m. 
The interest in its Spanish joint venture has been impaired to its recoverable amount, based on a value in use calculation, taking into account the current circumstances 
described above. Further details of its joint ventures are given in note 15.
4
  William Hill Online – in October 2008 the Group announced its intention to buy certain assets and companies from Playtech Limited in return for a share in its online 
business. The sale of part of its online business was completed on 30 December 2008 and generated a gain of £86.4m. Further details of the transaction are given in 
note 34. The tax charge is low as the disposal is not a disposal of the underlying assets for tax purposes.
5
  Income arose from the sale and leaseback of 14 (1 January 2008 – 24) LBO properties and is shown net of costs.
6
  On 2 July 2008 the Group announced the sale of its Italian joint venture company , William Hill Codere Italia Srl to INTRALOT Italia spa. This has resulted in loss on disposal.
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Tax relief expected in respect of assets impairment and costs in relation to the  
termination of the NextGen programme 
1
1.1 5.9
Integration costs in respect of William Hill Online 
2
0.3 -
Impairment of joint ventures 
3
- -
Gain on disposal of William Hill Online 
4
(1.7) -
Deferred tax charge on held over capital gain on sale and leaseback of LBOs 
5
(0.7) (1.4)
(1.0) 4.5 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 72
4. Share of results of associates and joint ventures
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Share of profit after taxation in associated undertakings 2.9 3.3
Share of loss after taxation in joint ventures (5.8) (2.6)
(2.9) 0.7
Exceptional impairment of joint ventures (note 3) (5.4) -
(8.3) 0.7
The above represents the Group’s share of the operating profit of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (SIS) and the 
Group’s joint ventures in Italy and Spain with Codere, further details of which are given in note 15.
5. Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging:
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Net foreign exchange losses 0.6 0.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 29.5 27.8
Amortisation of software 6.4 8.1
Exceptional operating expenses (note 3) 10.8 20.9
Staff costs (note 6) 295.0 231.8
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Category
1
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 Janusary 2008
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the  
Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates  
for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1 0.1 0.1
Tax services 3 0.4 0.6
All other services 10 0.4 -
Total fees payable to Deloitte LLP 1.1 0.9
1
  Fees are broken down by category in accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.2417, The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remunerations)  
2005 Schedule 2 Regulation 4(3)Costs.  
In addition to the above, other fees totalling £1.0m (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £nil ) have been capitalised in the 
consolidated balance sheet in respect of the Playtech transaction and the implementation of the Group’s new on line  
trading system. Deloitte LLP does not provide services for the Group’s pension schemes.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP are reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure such fees are competitive. The 
Committee sets the policy for awarding non-audit work to the auditors and reviews the nature and extent of such work  
and related fees in order to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments  
made to Deloitte LLP by the Company and its subsidiaries. 
In accordance with Statutory Instrument 2005 No.2417, fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates are shown below: William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 73
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
7. Investment income
8. Finance costs
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Interest payable and similar charges:
Bank loans and overdrafts 74.9 74.4
Amortisation of finance costs 1.8 1.5
Net interest payable 76.7 75.9
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (note 38) 12.8 11.7
89.5 87.6
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Interest on bank deposits 3.3 4.0
Fair value gains on interest rate swaps and collars transferred from equity  
for cash flow hedges of floating rate debt 9.6 7.6
Expected return on pension scheme assets (note 38) 14.1 12.7
27.0 24.3
Included in Other pension net costs/(credits) is £31.5m relating to actuarial losses (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £(12.9)m 
gains), which have been charged to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Wages and salaries 235.5 218.8
Social security costs 20.9 18.9
Other pension net costs/(credits) (note 38) 38.6 (5.9)
295.0 231.8
6. Staff costs
The average monthly number of people employed, including directors, during the period was 16,176 (53 weeks ended 1 January 
2008 – 14,629), all of whom are engaged in the administration and provision of betting and gaming services and the operation of 
stadia. Their aggregate remuneration comprised: William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 74
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
The effective tax rate in respect of ordinary activities before exceptional costs and excluding associate and joint venture 
income is 26.6% (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – 25.3%). The effective tax rate in respect of ordinary activities after 
exceptional items and excluding share of results of associates and joint ventures was 20.0% (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – 
24.8%). The current period’s charge is lower than the statutory rate of 28.5% mainly due to adjustments in respect of prior periods 
and permanent differences in respect of non-taxable income relating to the gain on disposal of William Hill Online. The 
differences between the total current tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
%
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
% £m £m
Profit before tax 293.3 209.2
Add/(Less): share of results of associates and joint ventures 2.9 (0.7)
296.2 100.0 208.5 100.0
Tax on Group profit at standard UK corporation  
tax rate of 28.5% (2007 – 30%) 84.4 28.5 62.6 30.0
Impact of changes in statutory tax rates - - (11.3) (5.4)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (6.1) (2.1) 0.1 -
Permanent differences – non-deductible expenditure 4.3 1.5 1.0 0.5
Permanent differences – non-taxable income (23.3) (7.9) (0.6) (0.3)
Total tax charge 59.3 20.0 51.8 24.8
The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate used for tax on profit on ordinary activities is the standard 
rate for UK corporation tax.
9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities
The tax charge comprises:
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 28.5% (2007 - 30%) 63.4 61.6
UK corporation tax – prior periods (7.4) (4.7)
Total current tax charge 56.0 56.9
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences 2.0 1.4
Impact from changes in statutory tax rates - (11.3)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.3 4.8
Total deferred tax charge/(credit) 3.3 (5.1)
Total tax on profit on ordinary activities 59.3 51.8 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
10. Dividends proposed and paid
52 weeks
ended
30 December 2008
Per share
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
Per share
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Equity shares:
– current year interim dividend paid 7.75p 7.75p 27.0 27.3
– prior year final dividend paid 15.50p 14.50p 53.8 51.2
23.25p 22.25p 80.8 78.5
Proposed dividend – 15.50p – 53.8
Under an agreement signed in November 2002, The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust agreed to waive all 
dividends. In addition, the Company does not pay dividends on the shares held in treasury. Details of shares held by the  
William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust and in treasury are given in note 30.
11. Earnings per share
52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008
Basic
Potentially 
dilutive share 
options Diluted Basic
Potentially 
dilutive share 
options Diluted
Profit after tax for the financial period (£m) 234.0 - 234.0 157.4 - 157.4
Exceptional items (note 3) (77.2) - (77.2) 14.2 - 14.2
Exceptional items – tax charge (note 3) 1.0 - 1.0 (4.5) - (4.5)
Profit after tax for the financial period before 
exceptional items 157.8 - 157.8 167.1 - 167.1
Weighted average number of shares (million) 347.6 2.6 350.2 352.2 3.4 355.6
Earnings per share (pence) 67.3 (0.5) 66.8 44.7 (0.4) 44.3
Exceptional Adjustment (21.9) 0.2 (21.7) 2.7 - 2.7
Earnings per share – adjusted 45.4 (0.3) 45.1 47.4 (0.4) 47.0
An adjusted earnings per share, based on profit for the prior period before exceptional items, has been presented in order  
to highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust  
and those shares held in treasury as such shares do not qualify for dividends. The effect of this is to reduce the average number  
of shares by 6.2million in the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – 7.9million). William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 76
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
The amortisation period for the Group’s computer software is between two and ten years. The use of a ten year life in respect  
of some of the software is supported by warranties written into the relevant software supply contract. Included within computer 
software additions is an amount of £7.2m that relates to internally developed software.
Licences are judged to have an indefinite life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews. 
The directors consider that the Group’s licences have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator  
in a well-established market; the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services; and the Group’s track record of 
successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Trade names, affiliate relationships and NCAs were purchased from Playtech Limited as part of the transaction described in 
note 34. Fair values have been assigned to these assets on the basis of an independent valuation report prepared by Grant 
Thornton LLP . Trade names and affiliate relationships are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which is five years. NCAs  
are amortised over the lifetime of the relevant agreement.
As stated in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies, the Group performs an annual impairment review for goodwill and 
other intangible assets with indefinite lives, by comparing the carrying amount of these assets with their recoverable amount. 
Testing is carried out by allocating the carrying value of these assets to groups of cash generating units (CGUs). The recoverable 
amounts of the CGUs are determined by value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are 
those regarding discount rates, and growth rates. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts 
derived from the following periods budget to EBIT for each CGU. The budgets used have been approved by management. 
These cash flows are then extrapolated by a growth rate. The discount rate applied in 2008 to the future cash flows of the CGU 
was 9.5% (2007 – 10.8%) and cash flows beyond the budget period are extrapolated using a 2.4% growth rate (2007 – 2.4%).
12. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Licence value
£m
Trade names, 
affiliate 
relationships and 
NCA
1
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Total
£m 
Cost:
At 27 December 2006 865.7 454.7 - 29.3 1,349.7
Additions - 5.3 - 15.8 21.1
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 6.8 23.9 - - 30.7
Exceptional impairment write-down (note 3) - - - (26.7) (26.7)
At 2 January 2008 872.5 483.9 - 18.4 1,374.8
Additions - 0.4 - 22.2 22.6
Reclassification of work in progress - - - 2.8 2.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary (note 34) 114.9 - 19.9 - 134.8
Disposal of 29% of interactive business (note 34) (28.2) - - - (28.2)
At 30 December 2008 959.2 484.3 19.9 43.4 1,506.8
Accumulated amortisation: -
At 27 December 2006 - - - 7.0 7.0
Charge for the period - - - 8.1 8.1
Exceptional impairment write-down (note 3) - - - (6.2) (6.2)
At 2 January 2008 - - - 8.9 8.9
Charge for the period - - - 6.4 6.4
At 30 December 2008 - - - 15.3 15.3
Net book value:
At 30 December 2008 959.2 484.3 19.9 28.1 1,491.5
At 1 January 2008 872.5 483.9 - 9.5 1,365.9
1
  NCAs are defined as non-competition agreements.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
13. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
£m
Fixtures, fittings and 
equipment
£m
Motor vehicles
£m
Total
£m 
Cost:
At 27 December 2006 232.5 130.3 5.2 368.0
Additions 37.9 0.9 0.9 39.7
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 0.6 0.8 - 1.4
Disposals (8.6) - (0.6) (9.2)
Exceptional impairment write-down (note 3) - (0.5) - (0.5)
At 2 January 2008 262.4 131.5 5.5 399.4
Additions 25.7 1.7 1.1 28.5
Reclassification of computer software - (2.8) - (2.8)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking - 1.0 - 1.0
Disposals (8.3) - (1.0) (9.3)
At 30 December 2008 279.8 131.4 5.6 416.8
Accumulated depreciation:
At 27 December 2006 74.2 84.3 2.5 161.0
Charge for the period 18.3 8.4 1.1 27.8
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 0.4 0.5 - 0.9
Disposals (4.3) - (0.6) (4.9)
Exceptional impairment write-down (note 3) - (0.1) - (0.1)
At 2 January 2008 88.6 93.1 3.0 184.7
Charge for the period 20.0 8.2 1.3 29.5
Disposals (6.0) (1.0) (7.0)
At 30 December 2008 102.6 101.3 3.3 207.2
Net book value:
At 30 December 2008 177.2 30.1 2.3 209.6
At 1 January 2008 173.8 38.4 2.5 214.7
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Freehold 42.7 47.6
Long leasehold 8.5 8.0
Short leasehold 126.0 118.2
177.2 173.8 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 78
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
14. Subsidiaries
The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their share capital and the nature  
of their trade are listed below:
Country of
incorporation 
Proportion of all classes of 
issued share capital owned 
by the Company Nature of trade
Directly owned:
William Hill Holdings Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Held through intermediate companies:
William Hill Investments Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
Will Hill Limited Great Britain 100% Holding company
William Hill Organization Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services 
William Hill (Course) Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
William Hill Credit Limited Great Britain 100% Betting services
Willstan Racing (Ireland) Limited Republic of Ireland 100% Betting services
Willstan Limited Northern Ireland 100% Betting services
BJ O’Connor Limited Jersey 100% Betting services
Willstan (IOM) Limited Isle Of Man 100% Betting services
The Regal Sunderland Stadium Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
Team Greyhounds (Brough Park) Limited Great Britain 100% Stadium operation
WHG Trading Limited Gibraltar 71% On-line casino
WHG (International) Limited Gibraltar 71% On-line casino
William Hill (Malta) Limited Malta 71% On-line casino
Eurotech Services Limited Bulgaria 71% Customer Services
Cellpoint Investments Limited Cyprus 71% Holding Company
Ad-gency Limited Israel 71% Marketing agency
The proportion of voting rights held is the same as the proportion of shares held.
13. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Out of the total net book value of land and buildings, £2.4m (1 January 2008 - £2.5m) relates to administration buildings  
and the remainder represents licensed betting offices. The gross value of assets on which depreciation is not provided  
amounts to £6.2m representing freehold land (1 January 2008 - £7.1m). 
The carrying amount of the Group’s fixtures, fittings and equipment includes an amount of £1.2m (1 January 2008 - £1.8m)  
in respect of assets held under finance leases.
At 30 December 2008, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant  
and equipment amounting to £7.5m (1 January 2008 - £20.2m).  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
15. Interests in associates and joint ventures
The Group uses the equity method of accounting for associates and joint ventures. The following table shows the aggregate 
movement in the Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures.
Joint ventures
£m
Associate 
£m
Total
£m
At 27 December 2006 - 5.3 5.3
Additions 8.7 - 8.7
Share of (loss)/profit before interest and taxation (2.6) 4.5 1.9
Share of interest - 0.3 0.3
Share of taxation - (1.5) (1.5)
Disposal of shares - (0.1) (0.1)
Dividend paid - (1.9) (1.9)
At 2 January 2008 6.1 6.6 12.7
Additions 8.4 - 8.4
Share of (loss)/profit before interest and taxation (6.0) 4.0 (2.0)
Share of interest 0.2 0.2 0.4
Share of taxation - (1.3) (1.3)
Disposal of shares (2.1) - (2.1)
Dividend received - (2.9) (2.9)
Impairment (6.6) - (6.6)
At 30 December 2008 - 6.6 6.6
Associates
At 30 December 2008, William Hill Organization Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company, held an investment of 19.5%  
(1 January 2008 – 19.5%) of the ordinary share capital of Satellite Information Services (Holdings) Limited (SIS), a company 
incorporated in Great Britain. The Group is able to exert significant influence over SIS, by way of its 19.5% holding and seat  
on the Board of directors. 
The SIS group of companies provides real-time pre-event information and results, as well as live coverage of horse racing, 
greyhound racing and certain numbers draws, via satellite. The statutory financial statements of SIS are prepared to the  
year ending 31 March. The consolidated figures above are based on management accounts for the calendar year 2008.
Goodwill relating to the acquisition of shares in SIS of £24m was fully provided against in 1999 to recognise an impairment  
in the carrying value. The following financial information relates to SIS:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Total assets 103.7 67.7
Total liabilities (69.9) (33.9)
Total revenue 188.0 146.8
Total profit after tax 15.1 16.6
William Hill Organization Limited also holds directly or indirectly 33% of the entire share capital of Lucky Choice Limited and of 
49’s Limited. These companies were formed for the purpose of promoting and publicising certain numbers betting formats.  
In the opinion of the directors, the results of these companies are not material to the results of the Group. Consequently, the 
investments have been stated at cost and have not been accounted for under the equity method, which would normally  
be appropriate for an associated undertaking. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 80
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
15. Interests in associates and joint ventures (continued)
Joint ventures
Country of
incorporation 
Proportion of all 
classes of issued 
share capital owned 
by the Company Nature of trade
Codere Apuestas SA Spain 50% Betting services
Codere Apuestas Espana SL Spain 50% Betting services
Garaipen Victoria Apustuak SL Spain 33
1
/ 3 % Betting services
During the period, the Group sold its joint venture holding, William Hill Codere Italia, SRL, in Italy, details of which are given  
in note 3. The following balance sheet information relates to the remaining joint ventures, whereas the income statement 
information also includes the Italian joint venture to the date of disposal.
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Non-current assets 13.2 7.3
Current assets 7.5 15.1
Total assets 20.7 22.4
Current liabilities (8.9) (9.9)
Non-current liabilities - -
Total liabilities (8.9) (9.9)
Net assets 11.8 12.5
Total revenue 1.0 -
Total loss after tax (11.6) (5.2) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
16. Inventories
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Raw materials, consumables and bar stocks 0.5 0.6
17. Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables comprise:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
(as restated)
£m
Trade debtors
1
3.1 2.9
Other debtors
1
1.4 2.9
Prepayments 27.1 26.5
31.6 32.3
Trade receivables are stated at their fair value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
During the course of the current and previous financial year, there have been no material bad debt expenses, with no  
material bad debt provision in existence.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits held by the Group with an original maturity of three 
months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
18. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables comprise:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Trade creditors 37.6 41.6
Other creditors 4.9 5.7
Accruals and deferred income 66.7 43.5
109.2 90.8
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 17 days (1 January 2008 – 15 days).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Included in trade creditors is an amount of £20.8m (1 January 2008 – £20.8m) in respect of amounts due to clients, representing 
deposits received and customer winnings. This is offset by an equivalent amount of client funds held, which is included in cash 
and cash equivalents.
1
  In implementing IFRS 7 the Group has reviewed the categories of debtor and made a reclassification to Trade debtors and Other debtors. The  
effect being to reduce Trade debtors by £1.2m in the current year and £2.5m in the prior year, with the corresponding increase in Other debtors. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 82
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
19. Borrowings
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Due in less than one year:
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 0.8 1.2
Due in more than one year:
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 0.4 0.6
Bank loans (note 21) 1,068.0 1,151.5
1,068.4 1,152.1
Total borrowings 1,069.2 1,153.3
20. Obligations under finance leases
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments  
are as follows:
Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum lease payments
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 0.8 1.2 0.8 1.2
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.5 0.7 0.4 0.6
After five years - - - -
1.3 1.9 1.2 1.8
Less: future finance charges (0.1) (0.1) - -
Present value of lease obligations 1.2 1.8 1.2 1.8
Less: amounts due within one year (0.8) (1.2) (0.8) (1.2)
Amounts due after more than one year 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.6
The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings. The interest rate inherent in the leases is 
fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been 
entered into for contingent rental payments. The average effective interest rate contracted approximates 4.6% (53 weeks 
ended 1 January 2008 – 4.6%) per annum.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximate to their carrying value. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 83
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
21. Bank overdrafts and loans
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Bank loans 1,070.0 1,155.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year - -
In the second year 820.0 -
In the third to fifth years inclusive 250.0 1,155.0
1,070.0 1,155.0
Less: expenses relating to loan (2.0) (3.5)
1,068.0 1,151.5
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) - -
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,068.0 1,151.5
Bank loans
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
%
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
%
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
Bank loans 6.8 6.6
At 30 December 2008, the Group had total bank facilities of £1,450m available to it under two facility agreements.  
The first facility is for a total commitment of £1,200m, and is split into two tranches:
•  Tranche A comprising a term loan of £600m repayable on 1 March 2010; and
•  Tranche B comprising a revolving facility of £600m available until 1 March 2010.
The second facility agreement is for a term loan of £250m, which is repayable on 30 July 2011.
Mandatory repayments are required to be made under the terms of both sets of loan documentation, including, but not  
limited to, the net proceeds of certain asset sales. The maturity profile above is analysed on the basis of calendar years from  
the balance sheet date. 
The borrowings drawn down under the £1,200m facility agreement bear interest at a variable margin of between 0.4%  
and 0.75% above LIBOR, dependent on certain financial ratios. The applicable margin at 30 December 2008 was 0.53%. 
A commitment fee of 37.5% of the applicable margin is payable on the undrawn element of the revolving facility.  
The revolving facility drawn down at 30 December 2008 was £220m (1 January 2008 – £305m).
The £250m borrowings under the second facility agreement bear interest at a fixed margin of 0.90% above LIBOR.
The facility agreements are secured by guarantees given by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Overdraft facility
At 30 December 2008, the Group had an overdraft facility with National Westminster Bank PLC of £5.0m (1 January 2008 - £5.0m). 
The balance on this facility at 30 December 2008 was £nil (1 January 2008 - £nil). William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 84
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Increase of 100  
basis points
£m
Decrease of 100 
basis points 
£m
Increase/(decrease) in profit 2.5 (2.5)
(Decrease)/increase in other equity reserves (14.2) 14.5
21. Bank overdrafts and loans (continued)
Fair value of loans and facilities
It is the directors’ opinion that due to the Group’s borrowings being subject to floating interest rates and the proven cash 
generation capability of the Group, there is no significant difference between book and fair value of the Group’s bank  
facilities and other borrowings.
New Bank facilities
The Board of William Hill PLC announced on 27 February 2009 that it has entered into the New Bank Facilities that, under a  
forward-start mechanism, will provide aggregate funding to the Group of £838.5m from March 2010. The main elements  
of the Refinanced Bank Facilities can be summarised as follows:
•  the Group’s existing £1.2 billion term and revolving facilities have been reduced to £950 million and, as before, will expire  
in March 2010;
•  for the period commencing January 2010, the Group has agreed new £538.5m forward-start term and revolving facilities 
expiring in March 2012, which are available to repay any amounts outstanding from the existing £950 million facilities and have 
a margin over LIBOR (determined by reference to the Group’s consolidated net debt to EBITDA ratio) ranging from 250 basis 
points to 300 basis points; 
•  to supplement the £538.5 million facilities, for the period commencing January 2010, the Group can also draw down a  
one-year £50 million incremental forward-start term facility, expiring in February 2011, with a margin over LIBOR of 450 basis 
points until June 2010 and increasing thereafter; and 
•  the Group’s existing £250 million term facility will remain available to the Group until it expires in July 2011.
As part of the refinancing, the Group has agreed to pay an increased margin and commitment fee to syndicate banks that 
have committed to participate in the New Bank Facilities. This increased margin will be paid on the relevant syndicate banks’ 
proportion of lending in the £950 million and £250 million facilities until their expiry in March 2010 and July 2011 respectively 
(unless prepaid earlier). The Board expects the all in effective weighted average cost of debt to be approximately 8.4 per cent, 
(based on the Group’s existing interest rate hedging arrangements and the terms of the New Bank Facilities).
22. Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations  
in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counter parties to financial transactions, and the availability of  
funds to meet business needs. These risks are managed as described below.
Risk management is carried out by the Corporate Finance department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.  
The Board provides written principles for risk management, as described in the Business Review on pages 20 to 23.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Debt issued at variable rates exposes the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. 
The Group uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings. The 
Group policy is to hedge approximately 80% of its net debt using fixed rate or capped rate instruments including interest rate 
swaps and collars. Details of these arrangements are given in note 24. Whilst the Group aims to maintain an effective hedge  
by converting 40% of its loans into fixed rates and capping a further 40%, it is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Based on  
the current level of borrowings and hedge arrangements a 100 basis points change in interest rates would have the following 
impact on the Group Financial Statements: William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Sterling
£m
Other currencies
£m
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
Other currencies
£m
Total
£m
Functional currency:
Sterling - (0.2) (0.2) - (2.3) (2.3)
Other currencies - - - 0.1 - 0.1
- (0.2) (0.2) 0.1 (2.3) (2.2)
Revenue by currency
Revenue by currency is analysed below.
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
%
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
%
Sterling 97.7 97.8
Euro 1.8 1.8
Other currencies 0.5 0.4
Total 100.0 100.0
22. Financial risk management (continued)
Currency risk
The Group’s objective when managing currency risk is to ensure that changes in exchange rates would not have a material 
impact on the Group.
The Group’s policy is to review the level of business impacted by currency fluctuations. The directors believe that any changes  
in exchange rates would not have had a material impact on the Group at 30 December 2008. Accordingly, the Group has  
not hedged against movements in exchange rates. This policy is being reviewed in light of the formation of William Hill Online.
Net foreign currency assets/(liabilities) are shown below: William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 86
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
22. Financial risk management (continued)
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and financial derivative 
instruments. The maximum exposure at 30 December 2008 was £73.7m, consisting of cash and bank balances £69.2m and trade 
and other receivables at £4.5m. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large 
number of counterparties and customers. It is the Group’s policy to spread surplus liquid funds over a minimum of four 
counterparties, with a maximum exposure to any one counterparty of £10m. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is managed by short- and long-term cash flow forecasts. The Group’s policy is to ensure that there are sufficient 
medium and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet medium-term funding requirements. At 30 December 2008,  
the Group had committed bank loan facility agreements for a total of £1.45bn (2007 – £1.45bn), of which £1.2bn matures in 
March 2010 and £250m in July 2011. The Group has agreed new bank facilities details of which are outlined in note 21.
The table below details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative financial instruments. The table has been drawn  
up on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial instruments including interest that will be receivable or payable  
on them. The interest payments are based on the three-month LIBOR in existence at the period end date. 
Capital risk
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, and to 
maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.  
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel 
them or issue new shares.
The Group monitors its capital structure using a net debt to EBITDA ratio. The Group has historically maintained a target capital 
structure of approximately 3.5 times net debt/EBITDA. It intends to focus on reducing this ratio going forward. The ratio at 30 
December 2008 was 3.2 times (1 January 2008 – 3.4 times).
Average  
effective  
interest rate
Less than 1 year 
£m
Between 1 and  
2 years 
£m
Between 2 and  
5 years 
£m
More than  
5 years 
£m
Total 
£m
30 December 2008
Finance leases 4.6% 0.8 0.5 - - 1.3
Borrowings including interest 2.9% 40.7 834.5 261.3 - 1,136.5
Impact of interest rate hedging 4.9% 11.1 16.5 10.5 - 38.1
Other liabilities - 109.2 - - - 109.2
Total 161.8 851.5 271.8 - 1,285.1
1 January 2008
Finance leases 4.6% 1.2 0.7 - - 1.9
Borrowings including interest 5.9% 56.0 65.0 1,203.7 - 1,324.7
Impact of interest rate hedging 4.9% (6.0) (1.1) - - (7.1)
Other liabilities - 90.8 - - - 90.8
Total 142.0 64.6 1,203.7 - 1,410.3 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
23. Financial instruments
The carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments (together with non-financial instruments for reconciling  
purposes) are analysed as follows:
                                 Financial instruments
At 30 December 2008 Notes
Derivative
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised cost
£m
Non financial 
instruments
£m
Total
£m 
Assets
Unlisted non-current asset investments - - - 6.6 6.6
Other non-current assets - - - 1,720.7 1,720.7
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables and similar items 17 - 3.1 - - 3.1
Other non-derivative financial assets 17 - 1.4 - - 1.4
Non-financial instruments 17 - - - 27.1 27.1
Cash and cash equivalents 17 - 76.5 - - 76.5
Other current assets - - - 0.5 0.5
Total assets - 81.0 - 1,754.9 1,835.9
Liabilities
Borrowings:
Current 19 - - (0.8) - (0.8)
Non-current 19 - - (1,068.4) - (1,068.4)
Other financial liabilities:
Fair value of swaps and collars 24 (36.6) - - - (36.6)
Financial liabilities at fair value through  
Profit and loss account
Antepost bets 24 (4.9) - - - (4.9)
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables and similar items 18 - - (37.6) - (37.6)
Other non-derivative financial liabilities 18 - - (71.6) - (71.6)
Current tax liabilities - - - (61.1) (61.1)
Other liabilities - - - (197.3) (197.3)
Total liabilities (41.5) - (1,178.4) (258.4) (1,478.3)
Net assets/(liabilities) (41.5) 81.0 (1,178.4) 1,496.5 357.6 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 88
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
The directors believe that due to the nature of the Group’s non-derivative financial instruments the carrying value equates  
to the fair value.
                              Financial instruments
At 1 January 2008 Notes
Derivative
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Liabilities 
measured at 
amortised cost
£m
Non financial 
instruments
£m
Total
£m 
Assets
Unlisted non-current asset investments - - - 12.7 12.7
Other non-current assets - - - 1,582.5 1,582.5
Trade and other receivables:
Trade receivables and similar items 17 - 2.9 - - 2.9
Other non-derivative financial assets 17 - 2.9 - - 2.9
Non-financial instruments 17 - - - 26.5 26.5
Other financial assets
Fair value of swaps and collars 24 5.2 - - - 5.2
Cash and cash equivalents 17 - 69.4 - - 69.4
Other current assets - - - 0.6 0.6
Total assets 5.2 75.2 - 1,622.3 1,702.7
Liabilities
Borrowings:
Current 19 - - (1.2) - (1.2)
Non-current 19 - - (1,152.1) - (1,152.1)
Financial liabilities at fair value through 
Profit and loss account
Antepost bets 24 (4.7) - - - (4.7)
Trade and other payables:
Trade payables and similar items 18 - - (41.6) - (41.6)
Other non-derivative financial liabilities 18 - - (49.2) - (49.2)
Current tax liabilities - - - (51.8) (51.8)
Other liabilities - - - (169.0) (169.0)
Total liabilities (4.7) - (1,244.1) (220.8) (1,469.6)
Net assets/(liabilities) 0.5 75.2 (1,244.1) 1,401.5 233.1
23. Financial instruments (continued) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
The notional principal hedged under these swaps varies between £460m and £100m over the period to 31 December 2012.  
At 30 December 2008 the notional principal hedged under these arrangements was £460m. The fixed interest rate under the  
swaps varies from 4.4% to 5.34%. In addition, the Group has also entered into interest rate collar arrangements expiring between 
31 December 2008 and 31 December 2012 under which the floating LIBOR rate is capped at rates between 4.75% and 5.5%  
with floors of between 3.75% and 4.50%. The notional principal amount hedged under these arrangements varies between 
£460m and £100m over the period to 31 December 2012. At 30 December 2008 the notional principal amount under the 
Group’s interest rate collars was £460m.
The fair value of swaps and collars entered into at 30 December 2008 is estimated as a liability of £36.6m (1 January 2008 asset – 
£5.2m). Derivative pricing models have been used to calculate these fair values. All of these interest rate swaps are designated 
and effective as cash flow hedges and the fair value thereof has been deferred in equity. An amount of £9.6m (53 weeks ended 
1 January 2008 – £7.6m) has been received in respect of hedged interest payments in the period.
24. Derivative financial instruments
Details of the Group’s Derivative financial instruments are given below.
Antepost bets
Antepost bets are a liability arising from an open position at the balance sheet date in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy note for derivative financial instruments. 
Interest rate swaps and hedges
The Group has entered into a number of interest rate swap and collar arrangements as at 30 December 2008 under which  
the LIBOR element of the interest payable is swapped or capped for fixed rate payments, details of which are given below:
Average contract fixed interest rate 
1
Notional principal amount 
2
Fair Value
30 December 2008
%
1 January 2008
%
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Less than one year 5.4 - 175.0 - 0.4 -
One to two years 4.8 5.4 640.0 175.0 (12.0) 0.3
Two to five years 5.3 5.0 700.0 1,340.0 (25.0) 4.9
After five years - - - - - -
1,515.0 1,515.0 (36.6) 5.2
1 
Calculated as the fixed rate for swaps and capped rate for collars.
2  
The total of Notional principal amounts represent the total value of contracts in existence at 30 December 2008. This is higher than the effective notional 
principal of £925m at 30 December 2008, as a number of contracts expire and are replaced by other contracts starting in future periods. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 90
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
25. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities) and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the 
current and prior period:
At 1 January 2008
£m
Acquired during 
period 
£m
Amount credited 
to reserves
£m
Amount credited/ 
(charged) to 
income 
£m
Amount
credited to 
Statement of 
Recognised 
Income and 
Expenses 
£m
At 30 December 
2008
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (5.9) - - (1.2) - (7.1)
Held-over gains (6.0) - - (1.8) - (7.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 0.9 - - (2.4) 8.8 7.3
Licences (132.9) - - - - (132.9)
Affiliate relationships - (5.4) - - - (5.4)
Share remuneration 1.0 - 0.2 0.6 - 1.8
Derivatives (1.2) - - - 11.7 10.5
Properties acquired via business 
combinations (19.7) - - 1.7 - (18.2)
(163.8) (5.4) 0.2 (3.3) 20.5 (151.8)
At 26 December 
2006
£m
Acquired during 
period 
£m
Rate change 
credited to 
income
£m
Amount credited/ 
(charged) to 
income 
£m
Amount 
(charged)/ 
credited to 
Statement of 
Recognised 
Income and 
Expenses
£m
At 1 January 2008
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (13.4) - 0.4 7.1 - (5.9)
Held-over gains - - 0.3 (6.3) - (6.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 7.5 - - (2.5) (4.1) 0.9
Licences (135.1) (6.8) 9.0 - - (132.9)
Share remuneration 1.0 - - - - 1.0
Derivatives (4.0) - - - 2.8 (1.2)
Properties acquired via business 
combinations (16.8) - 1.6 (4.5) - (19.7)
(160.8) (6.8) 11.3 (6.2) (1.3) (163.8)
The current statutory rate of UK corporation tax of 28% (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – 28%) has been used to calculate  
the amount of deferred tax. 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in the above analysis. The following is the analysis of the deferred  
tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
30 December
2008
£m
1 January 
2008
£m
Deferred tax liabilities (171.4) (165.7)
Deferred tax assets 19.6 1.9
(151.8) (163.8) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
26. Called-up share capital
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Number of shares £m Number of shares £m
Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 800,000,000 80.0 800,000,000 80.0
Called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each:
At start of period 353,718,759 35.4 361,631,253 36.2
Shares cancelled - - (7,912,494) (0.8)
At end of period 353,718,759 35.4 353,718,759 35.4
The shares were cancelled during the prior period as part of the Company’s share buy back programme. The Company has 
one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
27. Share premium
£m
At 27 December 2006 311.3
Share premium cancelled (311.3)
At 2 January 2008 and 30 December 2008 -
The share premium reserve records the excess of the cash actually received on the issue of shares over the nominal amount  
of the share capital issued. On 20 June 2007, the High Court of Justice confirmed the reduction in share premium, allowing  
its transfer to retained earnings.
28. Capital redemption reserve
£m
At 27 December 2006 6.0
Shares cancelled (note 26) 0.8
At 2 January 2008 and 30 December 2008 6.8
The capital redemption reserve arose on the cancellation of previously issued shares and represents the nominal value  
of those shares cancelled.
29. Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose following a group re-organisation in 2002 in preparation for the floatation of the Company.
£m
At 27 December 2006, 2 January 2008 and 30 December 2008 (26.1) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 92
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
30. Own shares
Own shares held comprise:
£m
At 27 December 2006 (46.9)
Transfer of own shares to recipients 12.5
At 2 January 2008 (34.4)
Transfer of own shares to recipients 3.3
At 30 December 2008 (31.1)
31. Hedging and translation reserves
Hedging reserve
£m
Translation reserve
£m
Total
£m
At 27 December 2006 9.4 - 9.4
Change in fair value of hedging derivatives (1.6) - (1.6)
Transfer to income (7.6) - (7.6)
Deferred tax arising 2.8 - 2.8
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations - 0.2 0.2
At 2 January 2008 3.0 0.2 3.2
Change in fair value of hedging derivatives (32.0) - (32.0)
Transfer to income (9.6) - (9.6)
Deferred tax arising 11.7 - 11.7
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations - 0.5 0.5
At 30 December 2008 (26.9) 0.7 (26.2)
The hedging reserve records the movements on derivative fair values, where movements on the fair value of those derivatives 
have qualified to be deferred to equity. The translation reserve records the movement of the fair value of overseas subsidiaries  
as a result of changes in the exchange rate.
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Number of
shares
Nominal value  
£m
Cost 
£m
Number of 
shares
Nominal value 
£m
Cost 
£m
William Hill Holdings EBT 1,000 - - 33,000 - -
Treasury shares 5,846,000 0.6 31.1 6,458,000 0.6 34.4
5,847,000 0.6 31.1 6,491,000 0.6 34.4
The shares held in Treasury were purchased at a weighted average price of £5.32 (1 January 2008 - £5.32). The shares held in the 
William Hill Holdings EBT were purchased at a weighted average price of £1.15 (1 January 2008 - £1.15). The total value of shares 
held in treasury and trust was £12.5m. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 93
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
32. Retained earnings
£m
At 27 December 2006 (99.4)
Dividends paid (note 10) (78.5)
Net profit for the period 157.4
Actuarial gain recognised in the pension scheme 12.9
Deferred tax arising thereon (4.0)
Shares purchased and cancelled (46.0)
Credit to equity in respect of share remuneration 2.6
Cancellation of share premium (note 27) 311.3
Movements on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients (8.1)
At 2 January 2008 248.2
Dividends paid (note 10) (80.8)
Net profit for the period 234.0
Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (31.5)
Deferred tax arising thereon 8.8
Credit to equity in respect of share remuneration 4.1
Tax receipt taken to equity in respect of share remuneration 8.9
Movements on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients (2.4)
At 30 December 2008 389.3
33. Minority interest
The minority interest relates to the 29% share in William Hill Online owned by Playtech Limited.
£m
At 27 December 2006 and 2 January 2008 -
William Hill Online (note 34) 9.5
At 30 December 2008 9.5 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 94
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
34. Acquisitions and disposals
On 30 December 2008, the Group acquired assets, businesses and contracts comprising an affiliate marketing business, 
customer services operation and gaming brands and websites (the acquired assets) from Playtech Limited. As the transaction 
occurred at midnight on 30 December 2008 there was no contribution to revenue or profit before taxation in the period to  
30 December 2008. As consideration for the acquisition, Playtech received a 29% interest in the newly formed William Hill 
Online, a combination of the acquired assets and William Hill’s existing interactive business. The capitalised goodwill on this 
transaction was £114.9m. 
The transaction has been accounted for using IFRS 3: Business Combinations. However, IFRS 3 does not provide specific guidance 
for transactions of this nature where there is no cash consideration. In the absence of any specific IFRS guidance, we defer to  
UK GAAP UITF Abstract 31: Exchanges of businesses or other non-monetary assets for an interest in a subsidiary, joint venture or 
associate, the principles of which are consistent with IFRS 3. The transaction has been accounted for in two parts; a disposal of  
29% of the Group’s Interactive division and the subsequent acquisition of 71% of the acquired assets. The fair value of the proceeds 
for the disposal of the 29% take in William Hill Online is equivalent to the fair value of the acquired assets and is £119.6m, being  
the sterling equivalent of the 71% of $242.5m that Playtech paid to acquire the assets concerned on 20 October 2008.
Disposal of 29% of Interactive division
The net assets William Hill Online disposed as part of this transaction were:
Book value
£m 
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 28.2
Intangible assets – other 4.6
Property, plant & equipment 1.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 3.2
Cash 6.8
Total assets 44.2
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (11.0)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities -
Total liabilities (11.0)
Net assets disposed 33.2
Gain on disposal (note 3) 86.4
Total consideration 119.6
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration -
Assets acquired 119.6
Total consideration 119.6
The 29% of net assets in William Hill Online is shown as a minority interest on the consolidated balance sheet. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
34. Acquisitions and disposals (continued)
Acquisition of acquired assets
This has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on it will be subject to an annual 
impairment review in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’. The following table sets out the book values of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired during the period and their fair value to the Group:
Book values
£m
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
 to Group
£m 
Non-current assets
Intangible assets - 19.9 19.9
Property, plant and equipment 1.0 - 1.0
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 0.2 - 0.2
Cash 0.7 - 0.7
Total assets 1.9 19.9 21.8
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (0.9) - (0.9)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities - (5.4) (5.4)
Total liabilities (0.9) (5.4) (6.3)
Net assets acquired 1.0 14.5 15.5
Goodwill arising 114.9
Total consideration 130.4
Satisfied by:
Equity 119.6
Minority interest 4.5
Transactions fees paid 1.2
Accrued transaction fees 5.1
Total consideration 130.4
Net cash outflows in respect of these acquisitions comprised:
Cash consideration (1.2)
Cash at bank and in hand acquired 0.7
(0.5)
Reconciliation of cash outflows to Consolidated Cash Flow Statement:
£m
Deferred consideration re T.H. Jennings (Harlow Pools) Ltd in 2007 (1.0)
Playtech Limited (0.5)
(1.5)
The goodwill arising on the acquired assets is attributable to the anticipated synergistic growth opportunities created by the 
highly complementary business activities and the strengthening of William Hill’s online position in comparison to its competitors 
in the market place. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 96
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
Book values 
acquired
£m
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Total assets 
acquired
£m
Existing William Hill 
interactive business
£m
William Hill Online
Total
£m 
Non-current assets
Intangible assets - 19.9 19.9 16.1 36.0
Property, plant & equipment 1.0 - 1.0 4.8 5.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 0.2 - 0.2 10.9 11.1
Cash 0.7 - 0.7 23.5 24.2
Total assets 1.9 19.9 21.8 55.3 77.1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (0.9) - (0.9) (38.1) (39.0)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities - (5.4) (5.4) - (5.4)
Total liabilities (0.9) (5.4) (6.3) (38.1) (44.4)
Net assets 1.0 14.5 15.5 17.2 32.7
Minority interest @29% 4.5 5.0 9.5
The table below shows the net assets in use by William Hill Online and the calculation of the minority interest: 
35. Notes to the cash flow statement
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Operating profit before exceptional items 278.6 286.7
Adjustments for:
Share of result of associates and joint ventures 2.9 (0.7)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 29.5 27.8
Amortisation of computer software 6.4 8.1
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.7) 0.4
Gain on disposal of LBOs (0.1) (5.1)
Gain on disposal of SIS shares - (1.7)
Cost charged in respect of share remuneration 4.1 2.6
Defined benefit pension cost less cash contributions (7.6) (7.9)
Foreign exchange reserve movement 0.5 0.2
Exceptional operating expense (2.4) -
Movement on financial derivatives 0.2 (0.9)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital: 311.4 309.5
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 0.1 (0.1)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (2.7) 0.2
(Decrease)/increase in payables (1.4) 1.1
Cash generated by operations 307.4 310.7
Income taxes paid (38.1) (71.8)
Interest paid (59.4) (89.3)
Net cash from operating activities 209.9 149.6
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise  
cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
34. Acquisitions and disposals (continued) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 97
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
36. Operating lease arrangements
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases
recognised as an expense in the year:
- plant and machinery 2.2 3.3
- other (including land and buildings) 47.9 43.6
50.1 46.9
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under  
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Within one year 43.8 38.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive 147.9 127.7
After five years 226.5 190.8
418.2 357.1
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its LBOs, office properties and amounts 
payable for the use of certain office and computer equipment. 
37. Share-based payments
The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the period, all of which will be settled by equity:
(a)  Performance Share Plan (PSP), Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Executive Bonus Matching Scheme (EBMS) encompassing 
awards made in the five years from 2003 to 2008;
(b)  Save As You Earn share option scheme involving options granted after 7 November 2002 (SAYE) encompassing grants made 
in the years from 2003 to 2008; and
(c)  Save As You Earn share option schemes involving options granted before 7 November 2002 (2002 SAYE) encompassing  
a grant made in 2002.
Details of these schemes are provided on pages 32 and 37 in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
In accordance with the transition provisions included in IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all grants 
after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes items  
(a) and (b) above. The total expense recognised (excluding employers’ National Insurance costs) in respect of these schemes 
was £4.1m in the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £2.6m).
(a) Performance Share Plan (PSP), Long–Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Executive Bonus Matching Scheme (EBMS)
The PSP and EBMS provides conditional awards of shares dependent on the Group’s earnings per share growth and Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a three-year period as well as continued employment of the individual at the date  
of vesting (awards are usually forfeited if the employee leaves the Group voluntarily before the awards vest). The LTIP provides 
conditional awards of shares dependent exclusively on the Group’s TSR performance over a three-year period and continued 
employment of the individual at the date of vesting. In the case of both plans, if the options remain unexercised after a period  
of 10 years from the date of grant, the option lapses. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 98
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
37. Share-based payments (continued)
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of the awards made in the period were as follows:
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Weighted average share price at date of grant £3.50 £4.53
Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil
Expected volatility 25% 27%
Expected life 3.8 years 3.5 years
Risk-free interest rate 4.3% 4.5%
Expected dividend yield 6.6% 3.3%
30 December
2008
Number
1 January
2008
Number
Outstanding at beginning of the period 3,087,927 4,052,109
Granted during the period 1,089,181 516,084
Forfeited during the period (1,449,653) (1,312,280)
Exercised during the period (214,259) (167,986)
Outstanding at the end of the period 2,513,196 3,087,927
Exercisable at the end of the period 99,634 43,149
As the PSP and LTIP are conditional awards of shares and the recipients do not have to pay an exercise price, the shares  
have, in effect, a zero cost exercise price. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share awards  
exercised during the period was £2.70 (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £6.22).
The awards outstanding at 30 December 2008 had a remaining weighted average contractual life of 6.4 years  
(1 January 2008 – 6.9 years).
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the 
option life where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002), 
historical volatility has been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing 
of the Company, and ending on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic 
price movements that arose immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted, 
based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account the market conditions applicable to the option (i.e. TSR 
requirements) by applying a discount to the option value. This discount is calculated based on an estimate of the probability  
of achieving the relevant condition, and was between 34% and 42% for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 (53 weeks 
ended 1 January 2009 – 33% to 42%).
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted under the PSP , LTIP and EBMS schemes at the date of grant was £1.92 per  
option (1 January 2008 – £2.42). The expense recognised (excluding employers’ National Insurance costs) in respect of relevant PSP ,  
LTIP and EBMS schemes in the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 was £2.5m (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £1.4m).
(b) SAYE scheme for grants made in the six years from 2003 to 2008 
Options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, which is open to all eligible employees, are based on a three, five or seven year monthly 
savings contract. Options under the scheme are granted with an exercise price up to 20% below the share price when the savings 
contract is entered into. The options remain valid for six months beyond the end of the relevant savings contract. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
The exercise price for the 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 SAYE schemes was £1.76, £3.93, £4.57, £4.60, £4.94 and  
£2.80 respectively.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £2.96 (53 weeks  
ended 1 January 2008 – £6.06). The options outstanding at 30 December 2008 had a remaining weighted average contractual  
life of 2.3 years (1 January 2008 – 2.2 years).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula in respect of the options were granted in the period as follows:
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Weighted average share price at date of grant £3.82 £4.89
Weighted average exercise price £2.80 £3.84
Expected volatility 25% 26%
Expected life 4.2 years 4.5 years
Risk–free interest rate 4.5% 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 5.7% 3.2%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s shares over a period matching the 
option life where possible and where this is not possible (due to the fact that the Company was only listed in June 2002), 
historical volatility has been calculated from a period commencing on 20 September 2002, being three months after the listing 
of the Company, and ending on the date of grant. This ensures that the volatility calculation is not unduly affected by erratic 
price movements that arose immediately after flotation. The expected life of the option used in the model has been adjusted, 
based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted under these SAYE grants at the date of grant was £0.95 per option (53 
weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £1.44). The expense recognised in respect of relevant SAYE grants in the 52 weeks ended 30 
December 2008 was £1.6m (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £1.2m).
30 December 2008  1 January 2008
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
£ Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
£
Outstanding at beginning of the period 2,928,433 4.15 2,527,698 3.84
Granted during the period 3,151,316 2.80 1,025,674 4.94
Forfeited during the period (1,823,326) (3.88) (333,076) (4.51)
Exercised during the period (344,476) (1.84) (291,863) (3.89)
Outstanding at the end of the period 3,911,947 3.39 2,928,433 4.15
Exercisable at the end of the period - - - -
37. Share-based payments (continued) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 100
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
37. Share-based payments (continued)
(c) Pre 7 November 2002 schemes 
In accordance with the transition provisions included in IFRS 2, the Group has not recognised an expense in respect of all grants 
before 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. In the context of the Group’s schemes, this includes options 
outstanding in relation to the 2002 SAYE. 
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
£ Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
£
Outstanding at beginning of the period 911,800 1.80 3,157,061 1.57
Forfeited during the period (2,068) (1.80) (46,107) (1.80)
Exercised during the period (66,092) (1.80) (2,199,154) (1.47)
Outstanding at the end of the period 843,640 1.80 911,800 1.80
Exercisable at the end of the period - - - -
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £4.00 (53 weeks 
ended 1 January 2008 – £6.12). The options outstanding at 30 December 2008 had a remaining weighted average contractual 
life of 1.1 years (1 January 2008 – 0.7 years).
38. Retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom and 
Republic of Ireland. The UK schemes are operated under a single trust and the assets of all the schemes held separately  
from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. The respective costs of these schemes are as follows:
52 weeks ended 
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended 
1 January 2008
£m
Defined contribution scheme (charged to operating profit) 2.0 1.7
Defined benefit scheme (charged to operating profit) 6.4 6.3
Defined benefit scheme (credited) to finance costs (1.3) (1.0)
Defined benefit scheme charged/(credited) to Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 31.5 (12.9)
38.6 (5.9)
Defined contribution schemes
The defined contribution schemes, to which both the Group and employees contribute to fund the benefits are available for  
all eligible employees. The only obligation of the Group with respect to these schemes is to make the specified contributions. 
The total cost charged to income in respect of these schemes represents contributions payable to this scheme by the Group  
at rates specified in the rules of the scheme. As at 30 December 2008, contributions of £nil (1 January 2008 – £nil) due in respect 
of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 101
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
38. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Defined benefit scheme
The Group also operates a defined benefit scheme in the UK for eligible employees which closed to new members in 2002. 
Under the scheme, employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 1.67% and 3.33% of final pensionable pay  
for each year of service on attainment of a retirement age of 63. The scheme is a funded scheme and the rate of Company 
contributions paid during 2008 for future service benefits was 19.2% of members’ pensionable pay. In addition, during 2008 the 
Group made an additional contribution of £9.4m as part of the five-year funding plan agreed with the trustees to remove the 
funding deficit disclosed on the basis of the formal actuarial valuation at 30 September 2004. The general principles adopted  
by the trustees for the purposes of this funding valuation are that the assumptions used, taken as a whole, will be sufficiently 
prudent for pensions already in payment to continue to be paid, and to reflect the commitments which will arise from members’ 
accrued pensions right. The group expects to make contributions of £14.4m in the next financial period. This includes a further 
contribution of £9.4m in respect of the five-year funding plan noted above.
For the purposes of preparing the information disclosed in these accounts, a full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried 
out at 30 September 2007 and updated to 30 December 2008 by a qualified independent actuary. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and past service cost were measured using the projected unit  
credit method.
Disclosure of principal assumptions
The financial assumptions used by the actuary in determining the present value of the defined benefit scheme’s liabilities were:
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Rate of increase of salaries 3.75% 4.25%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.75% 3.25%
Discount rate 6.00% 5.60%
Rate of increase in inflation 2.75% 3.25%
In accordance with the accounting standard, the discount rate has been determined by reference to market yields at the 
balance sheet date on high-quality fixed income investments at a term consistent with the expected duration of the liabilities. 
Price inflation is determined by the difference between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds with an 
adjustment to allow for differences in the demand for these bonds, which can distort this figure. The Bank of England target 
inflation rate has also been considered in setting this assumption. The expected rate of salary growth and pension increases  
are set with reference to the expected rate of inflation.
The mortality assumption is kept under review and has been updated. The current life expectancies for a male member 
underlying the value of the accrued liabilities are:
Life expectancy at age 63 30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Member currently aged 63 24 years 22 years
Member currently aged 45 25 years 23 years William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 102
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
38. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The assets in the scheme and their expected rate of return are set out in the table below. The expected rate of return is 
determined by taking the long-term rates of return available on Government and corporate bonds at the balance sheet  
date. The expected return on equities is calculated by applying a suitable ‘risk premium’ to the return on government  
bonds having regard to historic returns and long-term future expectations.
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit:
Analysis of the amount charged / (credited) to finance costs:
Analysis of the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense:
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 62.1 0.1
Experience (gains)/losses arising on the scheme liabilities - (4.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (30.6) (8.1)
31.5 (12.9)
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Expected return on pension scheme assets (14.1) (12.7)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 12.8 11.7
Net cost (1.3) (1.0)
52 weeks ended
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended
1 January 2008
£m
Current service cost 6.2 6.1
Past service cost 0.2 0.2
Total operating charge 6.4 6.3
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Expected return %
 Value 
£m Expected return %
 Value
£m
Equities 5.9 91.4 6.5 175.4
Corporate bonds 6.0 28.4 5.6 19.7
Gilts and cash 3.9 69.6 4.5 34.1
Total market value of assets 189.4 229.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (215.3) (232.5)
Deficit in scheme (25.9) (3.3) William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 103
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Movements in the present value of the fair value of scheme assets in the current period were as follows:
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
At beginning of period 229.2 206.7
Movement in period:
Expected return on scheme assets 14.1 12.7
Actuarial losses (62.1) (0.1)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 13.9 14.3
Contributions from scheme members 1.1 1.2
Benefits paid (6.8) (5.6)
At end of period 189.4 229.2
History of experience gains and losses:
52 weeks ended 
30 December 2008
53 weeks ended 
1 January 2008
52 weeks ended 
26 December 2006
52 weeks ended 
27 December 2005
Difference between the actual and expected return  
on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (62.1) (0.1) 13.7 18.8
% of scheme assets 32.8% 0.0% 6.6% 10.9%
Experience gains and (losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) - 4.9 4.8 2.1
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities - 2.1% 2.1% 0.9%
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value  
of the scheme liabilities 30.6 8.1 1.8 (22.4)
% of the present value of the scheme liabilities 14.2% 3.4% 0.8% 10.1%
Cumulative losses
1 
(£m) (54.5) (23.0) (35.9) (52.6)
1 
Cumulative losses are calculated from year ended 31 December 2002.
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
At beginning of period 232.5 231.8
Movement in period:
Service cost 6.2 6.1
Interest cost 12.8 11.7
Contributions from scheme members 1.1 1.2
Actuarial (gains)/losses (30.6) (13.0)
Benefits paid (6.9) (5.5)
Past service cost 0.2 0.2
At end of period 215.3 232.5
38. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period were as follows: William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 104
Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
38. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure scheme liabilities
The sensitivity of the present value of the scheme’s liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions used to measure these 
liabilities is illustrated in the table that follows. The illustrations consider the single change shown, with the other assumptions 
assumed to be unchanged. In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another 
assumption (although this is not always the case). In addition, changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as 
changes in the market value of the scheme assets, which may or may not offset the change in assumptions.
Assumption Changes in assumption Impact on defined benefit liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.1% p.a. Decrease by £5m (2%)
Rate of increase in inflation Increase by 0.1% p.a. Increase by £4m (2%)
Life expectancy Members assumed to live 1 year longer Increase by £6m (3%)
If the change in assumptions is in the opposite direction to that shown above, the impact on the defined benefits liabilities  
would be of a similar magnitude, again in the opposite direction.
Nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments held by the defined benefit scheme
Pension assets and liabilities (pre-tax) of £189.4m and £215.3m respectively are held on the Group’s balance sheet as at  
30 December 2008. Movements in equity markets, long-term interest rates, inflation and life expectancy could materially affect 
these amounts and could give rise to a requirement for additional contributions, or a reduction in contributions from the Group.
The Scheme’s investment strategy is set by the trustees following consultation with the Group. The defined benefit scheme  
has a significant holding of equity investments which produce more variable returns than bonds and are therefore considered 
“riskier”. It is generally accepted that the yield on equity investments will contain a premium to compensate investors for this 
additional risk.
During the year, in conjunction with the trustees, an asset-liability review for the defined benefit scheme was carried out to  
assist the trustees and the Group in determining the optimal long-term asset allocation based on the structure of liabilities  
within the Scheme. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 105
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
39. Related-party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation  
and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions  
between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.
Trading transactions
Associate
During the period the Group made purchases of £31.2m (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £31.3m) from Satellite Information 
Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Group’s associated undertaking, SIS. At 30 December 2008 the amount payable to Satellite 
Information Services Limited by the Group was £nil (1 January 2008 – £nil).
Purchases were made at market price. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees  
have been given or received. 
Joint Ventures
During the period the Group recharged certain administrative expenses totaling £1.7m (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 £1.4m) 
incurred on behalf of the joint venture, back to them.
At 30 December 2008 £nil was receivable from the joint ventures (1 January 2008 – £1.4m).
At 30 December 2008 the Group had entered into a guarantee arrangement with the Royal Bank of Scotland totaling  
£6.6m, in respect of conditions contained in various licences and concessions awarded to the joint ventures and to its  
online operation in Malta (53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 – £5.3m).
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate  
for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related-Party Disclosures’. 
52 weeks ended 
30 December 2008
£m
53 weeks ended 
1 January 2008
£m
Short-term employee benefits (including salaries) 3.3 2.3
Post-employment benefits (employer’s contribution) 0.1 0.2
Share-based payment (IFRS 2 charges) 0.2 0.1
3.6 2.6
40. Post balance sheet event
As previously highlighted, William Hill PLC has been in dialogue with its banks on its borrowing facilities, £1.2bn of which are  
due to mature in March 2010. On 27 February 2009, William Hill announced that it has entered into new bank facilities that,  
in aggregate, provide funding to the Group of £838.5m from 2010. In addition, the Board announced that it proposes to  
raise approximately £350m (net of expenses) by way of a fully underwritten 1 for 1 Rights Issue. Further details are disclosed  
in a separate news release also issued on 27 February 2009.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 106
Parent Company Independent Auditors’ Report
To the members of William Hill PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008  
which comprise the parent company balance sheet, parent company statement of accounting policies and the related  
notes 1 to 15. These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of William Hill PLC for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether  
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We  
also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is 
consistent with the audited parent company financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our 
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company 
financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 December 2008;
•  The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
•  The information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
United Kingdom
27 February 2009 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 107
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Financial Statements
Parent Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 December 2008
Notes
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 38.2 38.2
38.2 38.2
Current assets
Debtors
Due within one year 5 1,837.6 1,700.0
Due after more than one year 6 10.5 -
1,848.1 1,700.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (375.9) (165.8)
Net current assets 1,472.2 1,534.2
Total assets less current liabilities 1,510.4 1,572.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (1,068.0) (1,151.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 6 - (1.2)
Net assets 442.4 419.7
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 10,11 35.4 35.4
Capital redemption reserve 11 6.8 6.8
Own shares held 11 (31.1) (34.3)
Hedging reserve 11 (26.9) 3.0
Profit and loss account 11 458.2 408.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 12 442.4 419.7
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 27 February 2009 and are signed on its behalf by:
RJ Topping SP Lane
Director Director William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 108
Financial Statements
Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable  
UK GAAP accounting standards. A summary of the Company’s principal accounting policies, which have been applied 
consistently throughout the period and the preceding period is set out below.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable  
United Kingdom accounting standards and company law.
Exemptions
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and not 
presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone. The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from 
preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 ‘Cash flow statements’. The cash flows of the Company are included 
in the William Hill PLC Group financial statements. The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 ‘Related Parties’ from 
disclosing related-party transactions with entities that are part of the William Hill PLC Group.
Investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision, if any, for impairment.
Cost is measured by reference to the nominal value only of the shares issued for investments in subsidiaries acquired for 
consideration that includes the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief. Any premium is ignored.
Tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using  
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results  
as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different  
from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements. A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there  
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled  
over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign exchange
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or  
at an average rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported 
at the rates ruling at that date. Translation differences arising are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Finance costs
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of that debt at a constant rate on the 
carrying amount.
Debt
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs. The carrying amount is reduced by 
payments made in the period. Accrued finance costs are included within accruals and deferred income. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 109
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate swaps and collars. The Company does not enter into 
speculative derivative contracts. All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing 
underlying exposure of the William Hill PLC Group in line with the Group’s risk management policies. Amounts payable or 
receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Termination payments made or received are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure 
continues to exist. In other cases termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Own shares held
Own shares held in treasury and held in employment benefit trusts are included within reserves. 
Share-based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees within the William Hill PLC Group and operates 
a number of Inland Revenue approved Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option schemes open to all eligible employees within the 
William Hill PLC Group, which allow the purchase of shares at a discount. The cost to the Group of both of these share-based 
payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and is borne by the employing company within the Group.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula. The expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted, based on management’s best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions 
applicable to the option.
Further descriptions of the Group’s share-based payment plans are given in note 37 of the Group financial statements.
Going concern
As highlighted in note 21 and 22 to the Group Financial Statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital 
requirements through a loan facility, a substantial part of which is due for renewal on 1 March 2010. As documented in  
the ‘Refinancing’ section of the Chairman’s statement, the Company has successfully concluded negotiations with its bankers 
for the renewal of these facilities in part and has agreed a fully underwritten rights issue to cover a potential funding shortfall. 
Whilst current economic conditions create uncertainty over the level of demand for the Group’s products; the Group’s forecasts 
and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able  
to operate within the level of its new current facility. 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 110
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
1. Directors’ remuneration and interests
The Company had no employees other than directors during the current or prior period. The Company did not operate any 
pension schemes during the current or prior period. Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options and other 
entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, are given in the parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 32 to 37, which are described as having been audited. 
Directors interests
The directors had the following interests, including family interests (all of which were beneficial) in the ordinary shares  
of William Hill PLC:
30 December 2008
Number 
1 January 2008
Number 
Chairman
Charles Scott 125,817 85,817
Executive directors:
Simon Lane 1,500 1,500
Ian Spearing 24,757 16,515
Ralph Topping 13,556 13,556
Non-executive directors:
David Alvey 13,333 13,333
David Edmonds 12,000 5,000
Barry Gibson 17,231 17,231
No changes took place in the interests of directors between 30 December 2008 and 27 February 2009.
No director had any interest in shares in any other Group company.
Directors’ share options
Details of directors’ share options are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37, which are described  
as having been audited.
2. Profit for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account 
for the year. William Hill PLC reported a profit for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 of £132.7m (53 weeks ended 1 January 
2008 – £29.9m).
The auditors’ remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 5 to the Group financial statements.
3. Dividends proposed and paid 
30 December 2008
Per share
1 January 2008
Per share
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Equity shares:
- current year interim dividend paid 7.75p 7.75p 27.0 27.3
- prior year final dividend paid 15.50p 14.50p 53.8 51.2
23.25p 22.25p 80.8 78.5
Proposed dividend - 15.50p - 53.8
Further details of dividends paid and proposed are shown in note 10 of the Group financial statements. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 111
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
4. Investments
£m
Cost and net book value:
At 1 January 2008 and 30 December 2008 38.2
It is the opinion of the directors that the total value of the Company’s investment in its subsidiaries is not less than the amounts at 
which they are stated in the parent company balance sheet. 
The principal subsidiaries of the Company, their country of incorporation, ownership of their share capital and the nature of their 
trade are shown in note 14 to the Group financial statements.
5. Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,837.6 1,694.8
Financial derivatives (note 9) - 5.2
1,837.6 1,700.0
6. Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year:
£m 
At 1 January 2008 (1.2)
Deferred tax on hedging movement 11.7
At 30 December 2008 10.5
In the 2007 parent company financial statements the deferred tax balance was shown under ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’.
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 323.6 165.8
Accruals and deferred income 15.7 -
Financial derivatives (note 9) 36.6 -
375.9 165.8 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 112
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008
8. Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Bank overdrafts and loans
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Bank loans 1,070.0 1,155.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year - -
In the second year 1,070.0 -
In the third to fifth years inclusive - 1,155.0
1,070.0 1,155.0
Less: expenses relating to loan (2.0) (3.5)
1,068.0 1,151.5
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) - -
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,068.0 1,151.5
Further details of bank loans are shown in note 21 of the Group financial statements.
9. Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Company holds derivatives and other financial instruments on behalf of the William Hill PLC Group. The Business Review 
provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during the period in creating or changing the risks that  
the Group faces in its activities. The explanation summarises the objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments 
and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the period.
Further details of derivatives are shown in note 24 of the Group financial statements.
The value of net foreign currency monetary assets at 30 December 2008 was £nil (1 January 2008 – £nil).
10. Called-up share capital
30 December 2008 1 January 2008
Number of shares £m Number of shares £m
Authorised - ordinary shares of 10p each 800,000,000 80.0 800,000,000 80.0
Called-up, allotted and fully paid - ordinary shares  
of 10p each:
At start of period 353,718,759 35.4 361,631,253 36.2
Shares repurchased and cancelled - - (7,912,494) (0.8)
At end of period 353,718,759 35.4 353,718,759 35.4
The shares were cancelled during the prior period as part of the Company’s share buy-back programme.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income. William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 113
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Financial Statements Company information
Number of
shares under
option
Price
 per share
Exercise
 period
Long-Term Incentive Plan (2003) 6,629 - Between 2006 and 2013
Long-Term Incentive Plan (2004) 17,304 - Between 2007 and 2014
Operating Bonus 2004 6,635 - Between 2007 and 2014
Performance Share Plan (2005) 75,701 - Between 2008 and 2015
Performance Share Plan (2006) 825,291 - Between 2009 and 2016
Executive Benefit Matching Scheme (2007) 499,090 - Between 2010 and 2017
Executive Benefit Matching Scheme (2008) 1,089,181 - Between 2011 and 2018
SAYE 2002 843,640 £1.80 Between 2005 and 2010
SAYE 2003 73,563 £1.76 Between 2006 and 2011
SAYE 2004 155,868 £3.93 Between 2007 and 2012
SAYE 2005 349,099 £4.57 Between 2008 and 2013
SAYE 2006 438,413 £4.60 Between 2009 and 2014
SAYE 2007 373,351 £4.94 Between 2010 and 2013
SAYE 2008 2,521,653 £2.80 Between 2011 and 2014
Note 37 to the Group financial statements has further information on these schemes, including the valuation models and 
assumptions used.
Share options
Options have been granted to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company under various share option and award schemes  
as shown below:
11. Reserves
Called-up share 
capital
£m
Capital redemption 
reserve 
£m
Own shares held
£m
Hedging reserve
£m
Profit and loss 
account
£m
Total
£m
At 2 January 2008 35.4 6.8 (34.3) 3.0 408.8 419.7
Retained profit for  
the financial period - - - - 132.7 132.7
Transfer of own shares 
to recipients - - 3.2 - (2.5) 0.7
Change in fair value 
of derivatives - - - (32.0) - (32.0)
Transfer to income on 
derivatives - - - (9.6) - (9.6)
Deferred tax on 
derivatives - - - 11.7 - 11.7
Dividends paid - - - - (80.8) (80.8)
At 30 December 2008 35.4 6.8 (31.1) (26.9) 458.2 442.4 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 114
12. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
30 December 2008
£m
1 January 2008
£m
Opening equity shareholders’ funds as previously reported 419.7 516.3
Profit for the financial period 132.7 29.9
Dividends paid (80.8) (78.5)
Own shares purchased during period - (46.0)
Change fair value of derivatives (41.6) (9.2)
Deferred tax on change in fair value of derivatives 11.7 2.8
Movement on reserves due to transfer of own shares to recipients 0.7 4.4
Net increase/(decrease) to equity shareholders’ funds 22.7 (96.6)
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 442.4 419.7
13. Financial commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 30 December 2008 (1 January 2008 – £nil).
The Company had no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 December 2008 (1 January 2008 - £nil).
Details of bank guarantees given to the Group’s joint ventures and WIlliam Hill (Malta) Limited are shown in note 39 of the Group 
financial statements.
14. Related-party transactions
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3(c) of FRS 8 ‘Related-Party Disclosures’ not  
to disclose transactions with companies within the William Hill PLC Group, which are related parties.
15. Post balance sheet event
As previously highlighted, William Hill PLC has been in dialogue with its banks on its borrowing facilities, £1.2bn of which are due 
to mature in March 2010. On 27 February 2009 William Hill PLC announced that it has entered into refinanced bank facilities that, 
together with the Group’s £250m existing bank facility, in aggregate provide funding to the Group of £838.5m In addition, the 
Board announced that it proposed to raise approximately £350m (net of expenses) by way of a fully underwritten 1 for 1 Rights 
Issue. Further details are disclosed in a separate news release also issued on 27 February 2009.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2008 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 115
Our business Governance Company information Business Review Governance Company information
Financial Statements
Five-Year Summary
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
1
2008
£m
2007
(as restated)
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
2004
£m
Summarised results:
Amounts wagered 15,553.9 14,797.1 13,235.9 10,746.1 8,287.7
Revenue 963.7 933.6 894.2 805.3 N/A
Profit from operations before exceptional 
items (including associates) 278.6 286.7 292.2 245.0 234.1
Profit from operations after exceptional 
items (including associates) 267.8 265.8 292.2 218.1 234.1
Profit before tax 293.3 209.2 235.4 174.6 207.4
Profit for the financial period 234.0 157.4 166.8 113.1 149.8
Summarised balance sheets: 
Assets employed:
Non-current assets 1,727.3 1,595.2 1,563.5 1,528.1 858.1
Current assets 108.6 107.5 144.0 97.4 82.1
Current liabilities (212.6) (148.5) (181.4) (143.7) (203.6)
Non-current liabilities (1,265.7) (1,321.1) (1,335.6) (1,225.7) (486.2)
Long-term provisions - - - (7.5) -
Net assets 357.6 233.1 190.5 248.6 250.4
Financed by:
Equity attributable to equity  
holders of the parent 348.1 233.1 190.5 248.6 250.4
Minority interest 9.5 - - - -
Total equity 357.6 233.1 190.5 248.6 250.4
Key statistics:
+
EBITDA (£m) 318.6 352.2 325.0 269.8 251.5
Basic earnings per share (pre-exceptionals) 45.4 47.4p 45.5p 29.0p 36.5p
Diluted earnings per share (post-exceptionals) 66.8 44.3p 44.9p 28.6p 35.9p
Dividends per share (paid)
2
23.3 22.2p 19.5p 17.1p 14.5p
Share price – high £5.00 £6.76 £6.63 £6.24 £5.68
Share price – low £1.55 £4.80 £5.35 £4.85 £4.20
+  
EBITDA represents profit on ordinary activities before finance charges, tax, depreciation, share remuneration charges and 
amortisation and excludes exceptional items and impairment of goodwill.
1  
The amounts for 2004 are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practical to restate amounts for periods prior  
to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRSs were discussed in note 37 to the  
2006 Group financial statements.
2  
Dividends per share have been presented on a paid basis in line with IFRS.
Company Information Abbreviations and Glossary
ABB 
Association of British Bookmakers
AGM 
Annual General Meeting
BAGS 
 Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services 
Limited, a non-profit making company  
set up by various bookmakers, including 
William Hill
CCTV 
Closed circuit television
Company 
William Hill PLC, the ultimate holding 
company of the William Hill Group
CPI 
Consumer price index
CR 
Corporate responsibility
DCMS 
Department of Culture, Media and Sport
EBMS 
Executive Bonus Matching Scheme
EPS 
Earnings per share
Gambling Act 
 The legislation that received Royal Assent  
in 2005 regarding the modernisation of  
the laws relating to betting and gaming 
within the UK
Gambling Commission 
The Gambling Commission for Great Britain, 
the regulatory body for casinos, bingo clubs, 
gaming machines, betting, remote gambling 
and larger lotteries (including all local 
lotteries but excluding the National Lottery)
GPT 
Gross profit tax
Gross profit tax 
 A duty charged by the UK Government of 
15% of a bookmaker’s gross win, introduced 
in October 2001
Gross win 
Total customer stakes less customer winnings
Horse racing levy 
 A levy attributable to bets taken on horse 
racing and payable to the Horserace 
Betting Levy Board, primarily for the 
purposes of augmenting prize money 
available for winning horses and providing 
certain racecourse amenities
IAS 
International accounting standards
IFRIC 
International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards
KPI 
Key performance indicators
LBO 
Licensed betting office
LTIP 
Long-term incentive plan
MLRO 
Money Laundering Reporting Officer
Net revenue 
Gross win less fair-value adjustments for  
free bets, bonuses and goodwill gestures
PBIT 
Profit before tax and interest
PSP 
Performance Share Plan
RGA 
Remote Gambling Association
RIGT 
Responsibility in Gambling Trust
SIS 
 Satellite Information Services (Holdings) 
Limited or its subsidiary Satellite Information 
Services Limited, as the context requires
Sportsbook 
Bets placed and accepted online on 
sporting and other events
TSR 
Total shareholder return
William Hill or the Group 
The Company and its subsidiaries or any  
of them, as the context may require
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 116
Financial statements
Shareholder Information
William Hill listed on the London Stock 
Exchange on 20 June 2002 and the  
share price on listing was 225p. 
Shareholders can access the current  
share price at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
To find the shop closest to you, go to our 
shop locator at www.williamhillplc.co.uk
Financial calendar
Preliminary announcement 
27 February 2009
AGM 
12 May 2009
Registrar
The registrar of the company is Capita 
Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, 
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, 
HD8 0LA (www.capitaregistrars.com). 
Telephone 0870 162 3100. Please contact 
Capita for advice regarding any change  
of name or address, transfer of shares or loss 
of share certificate. Capita will also be able 
to respond to queries on the number of 
shares you hold and the payment details  
for dividends.
You may give instructions for your dividend  
to be used to purchase additional William  
Hill shares. Full details of the dividend 
reinvestment plan can be found in the 
Investor Relations section of our corporate 
website (www.williamhillplc.co.uk) under 
shareholder information and a form of 
mandate can be found within the 
downloadable forms section. Alternatively, 
contact Capita Registrars.
Professional advisers
Auditors: 
 Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
Financial adviser and corporate broker: 
 Citi
Citigroup Centre 
33 Canada Square 
London E14 5LB
Financial PR agency: 
 Brunswick Group LLP 
16 Lincoln’s Inn Fields 
London WC2A 3ED
Registrars:  
 Capita Registrars 
Northern House 
Woodsome Park 
Fenay Bridge 
Huddersfield 
West Yorkshire HD8 0LD  William Hill PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
William Hill PLC
Greenside House, 50 Station Road
Wood Green, London, N22 7TP
T 020 8918 3600  F 020 8918 3775
Reg No 421 2563 England
