 Annual Report and
Financial Statements 2013
Wilmington Group plc   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Wilmington 
Group plc  Wilmington is an ambitious Group  
with a professional culture and 
entrepeneurial spirit.
Our Strategy
To increase shareholder value by delivering sustainable 
and growing profits
Servicing the information, compliance and education 
requirements of professional business markets
To build high quality, high margin businesses with strong 
barriers to entry and resilience in long term markets
Our Values
Ambitious – Entrepreneurial, proactive, results driven
Professional – Expert, high quality, adaptable
Trusted – Collaborative, customer focused, reputable
Ambitious  Professional  Trusted Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 01
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Financial Highlights  01
Our Markets 02
Our People 04
Chairman’s Statement  06
Chief Executive’s Review  10
Financial Review 16
Operational Targets 18
Principal Risks 20
Corporate and  
Social Responsibility 22
Directors and Senior Management  24
Directors’ Report  26
Corporate Governance Statement  30
Report on Directors’ Remuneration  35
Independent Auditors’ Report  45
Consolidated Income Statement  47
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income  48 
Balance Sheets  49
Statements of Changes in Equity  50
Cash Flow Statements  52
Notes to the Financial Statements  53
Pro-forma Five Year Financial  
Summary  91
Advisers and Corporate Calendar 92
Discover more online...
Scan this QR code with your smart phone 
to visit our website for the most up-to-date 
information. www.wilmington.co.uk
Financial Highlights
Revenue £’000
£85,048 (2012: £85,326)
Adjusted EBITA £’000 (note 2)
£16,865 (2012: £15,682)
Adjusted Profit before Tax £’000 (note 2)
£14,702 (2012: £13,226)
Profit before Tax £’000 (note 2)
£5,116 (2012: £6,328)
Net debt £’m
£33.4 (2012: £36.2)
Adjusted Earnings per Share (note 10)
13.06p (2012: 11.71p)
Interim and proposed final dividend per share (note 9)
7.00p (2012: 7.00p)
8%
11%
19%
12%
8%
0%
0% Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 02
Wilmington Group plc 
Our Markets
We now manage and report our business by  
reference to six main market areas; Pensions  
& Insurance, Banking & Compliance, Healthcare, 
Legal, Business Intelligence, Accountancy. 
Group Revenue by market analysis 12 months 12 months 
  to June 2013 to June 2012 
  % of Turnover % of Turnover
 Pensions & Insurance 17 17
 Banking & Compliance 19 18
 Healthcare 15 15
 Legal 23 25
 Business Intelligence 13 12
 Accountancy 13 13
Group Revenue  
by market analysis 
Group Revenue by Region Group Revenue by Region 12 months 12 months 
  to June 2013 to June 2012 
  % of Turnover % of Turnover
 United Kingdom 68 72
 Europe, excluding the UK 15 13
 North America 9 8
 Rest of World 8 7 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 03
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
*Contribution to Group profits
Banking & Compliance
Accountancy
Legal
Pensions & Insurance
£2.1m 
Contribution* (2012: £2.1m)  
Healthcare
£2.5m 
Contribution* (2012: £2.9m)  
Business Intelligence
£2.9m 
Contribution* (2012: £2.8m)  
£2.8m 
Contribution* (2012: £2.5m)  
£3.5m 
Contribution* (2012: £3.0m)  
£6.1m 
Contribution* (2012: £5.2m)   Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 04
Wilmington Group plc 
Our People
Integral to Wilmington’s growth and success is the 
talent, expertise, professionalism and commitment  
of our people.  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 05
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Integral to Wilmington’s growth and success is the talent, 
expertise, professionalism and commitment of our people. 
During the year we have continued to build towards our goals  
of becoming an employer of choice and ensuring we remain  
a great place to work. Our dynamic changing markets continue 
to present challenges and in order to achieve our growth plans, 
we are committed to ensuring we attract and retain the right  
and best talent.
Talent management is a key priority. We are committed to 
developing our people, to realise their potential, and we continue 
to invest in training and development initiatives. We encourage 
a continuous development ethos that is underpinned by tailored 
development programmes across our businesses. 
We respond appropriately to employment legislation and 
regulatory requirements across our increasingly international 
Group. Last year investment was committed to update our 
HR systems and we are well advanced in preparing for the 
implementation of auto enrolment in 2014. Compliance with 
the Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation continues to be 
an on-going priority and training on Wilmington policies and 
procedures is delivered to all staff using Bond Solon’s on line 
training platform. To date, over 700 staff have completed ABC 
training courses.
Talent management is 
a key priority. We are 
committed to developing 
our people, to realise  
their potential.
Employees across the Group
804 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 06
Chairman’s Statement
Our strategy to move towards higher quality more sustainable 
income streams is bearing fruit. 
Achieving our medium 
term and strategic goals
I am pleased to present my report on Wilmington’s results 
for the twelve months ended 30 June 2013. We have moved 
forward in line with our strategic aims of building a higher quality 
business comprising a larger proportion of subscription and 
repeatable revenues. 
Focussing on the financial results I am delighted to report 
continued success, making good progress towards our medium 
term financial targets. Wilmington has delivered an improved 
financial performance with Adjusted EBITA up 8% (£1.2m) 
to £16.9m from £15.7m in 2012. Revenues were stable at 
£85.0m (2012: £85.3m) reflecting the restructuring of the legal 
division, the disposal or closure of lower margin businesses 
and our exit from contract directory publishing. These were 
counterbalanced by a revenue contribution of £2.1m from our 
two acquisitions made in the year and a full year contribution 
from Millennium acquired in May 2012. The result of our actions 
is a very satisfactory growth in adjusted EBITA margin to 19.8% 
(2012:18.4%)
Adjusted Profit before Tax was up a pleasing 11% (£1.5m) to 
£14.7m (2012: £13.2m) driven by improving Adjusted EBITA 
and reduced interest on debt arising from our strong cash flow.  
At 30 June 2013 our net debt had reduced by £2.8m to £33.4m 
compared to £36.2m at 30 June 2012 despite investing  
£6.3m of net cash on acquisitions in the year. Our gearing as 
calculated by net debt to Adjusted EBITDA has fallen to  
1.8 times (2012:2.1 times) and cash conversion remained  
strong at 115% (2012:111%).
Mark Asplin
Chairman
During the year, we have 
continued our focus on 
higher margin business  
and implemented a 
number of internal 
initiatives to support  
our strategic objectives. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 07
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
In terms of business development it has been an exciting and 
busy year with particular emphasis on preparing the Group 
for future expansion and growth. This is consistent with our 
strategy of growth through selective value adding acquisitions 
and focussed organic investment. We have also taken action 
to improve margins through the consolidation of our legal 
and accountancy programmes, the disposal of our sub scale 
Australian investment, removal of loss making print directory 
products, the termination of our NCLT venture and our exit from 
contract publishing. 
Our strategy to move towards higher quality more sustainable 
income streams is bearing fruit. Revenue from subscriptions 
and repeatable revenues represented 79% of Group turnover 
(2012: 78%) and digital revenue as a percentage of our content 
revenue was also 79% (2012 76%). Advertising represented 
6% of revenue (2012: 9%) despite the addition of Inese which 
generates around 14% of its revenue from advertising sources.
Business Strategy
Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by delivering 
sustainable and growing profits from servicing the information, 
compliance and education requirements of the global 
professional business markets.
We are focused on developing existing assets and acquiring 
new businesses in the UK and overseas that are earnings 
accretive with predictable recurring revenues and strong cash 
flows. During the year, we have continued our focus on higher 
margin business and implemented a number of internal initiatives 
to support our strategic objectives. These initiatives included 
increasing investment and co-ordination in the development of 
technology, introducing new strategic HR and finance systems 
as well as consolidating our back office functions into a central 
shared service structure. 
We are confident that this strategy will deliver a group of 
businesses with an increasing proportion of revenues derived 
from subscriptions to products which disseminate content-rich, 
high-value information digitally along with certificated education 
and compliance programs. Tighter regulatory control and more 
complex legislation in our key markets will continue to drive the 
demand for our products and services globally.
In addition, we have actively sought to increase our income 
streams from outside the UK where we see better prospects 
for long term sustainable growth. Revenue outside the UK has 
grown to 32% of total revenue compared to 28% last year. 
This growth, alongside cost savings and product development 
which have already been implemented, should result in further 
progress being made in 2013/14.
Acquisitions
Since my report in last year’s annual statement we have made 
three acquisitions; NHiS, Inese and Compliance Week. Each 
acquisition has been consistent with our investment strategy 
and each acquisition was made with a clear objective and 
strengthened our position in one of our six core markets. 
NHiS, a provider of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow 
tools and other services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK 
was acquired in February 2013. NHiS had built up a major business 
intelligence and technology capability in a complementary  
area to Binley’s our healthcare information business. Our key 
objective was to combine resources and opportunities.
Inese, acquired in March 2013, is a provider of Spanish 
language subscription based publications and online services.  
It also provides training and a number of annual events  
including the leading industry congress; “Insurance Week”.  
Inese also operates a digital news service in Latin America.  
This business neatly complements our existing insurance 
activities and will offer a route by which Axco will be able to 
exploit Inese’s access to the South American market.
Post year end, in August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week. 
Compliance Week is the leading provider of governance, risk 
and compliance (“GRC”) information and events for public 
companies and large enterprises primarily in the US. Compliance 
Week will work closely with other Wilmington Group companies 
including Axco (insurance market regulation and compliance 
information) and the ICT compliance training business, providing 
both with closer access to their North American customers 
and markets as well as opportunities for developing new 
revenue streams. The Group is also very well placed to support 
Compliance Week’s ambitions to grow outside of the US and in 
October 2013 the Group will launch “Compliance Week Europe” 
in Brussels. 
Dividend
I am proud of the Group’s record of maintaining its dividend over 
the recent years reflecting our confidence in the strategy and 
resilience of our business models and I am pleased to confirm 
that the final dividend for this year will be 3.5p (2012: 3.5p) per 
share making a total dividend of 7.0p (2012: 7.0p) per share 
for the year. We intend to build our annual dividend cover of 
Adjusted Earnings per Share to two times the annual dividend at 
which time we will resume a progressive dividend policy.
Outlook and Current Trading
During the year, we have continued to focus on developing 
existing assets and acquiring new businesses in the UK and 
overseas to widen the Group’s geographic reach and strengthen 
recurring revenues and cash flows. Transitioning the Group to 
a higher quality, higher margin business has been a key priority 
and as result, the Group is well positioned to deliver on its 
medium term growth targets.
 
We believe the macro economic climate is changing slowly for 
the better and the Group is in a good position to take advantage 
of this. As we anticipate tighter regulatory control and more 
complex legislation to be implemented in our key markets, these 
changes will continue to drive the demand for our products and 
services globally. 
The new financial year has started well and we are seeing good 
growth in a number of areas in particular from our Pensions & 
Insurance and Banking & Compliance Divisions.
Finally we are in a fast moving service industry and we are 
fundamentally reliant on the quality and professionalism of 
our people. I would once again like to express my own and 
my fellow Board members’ appreciation of the hard work and 
dedication of our people and to extend a warm welcome to the 
newer members of our group from NHiS, Inese and Compliance 
Week to the Wilmington team.
Mark Asplin
Chairman
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 08
Chief Executive’s Review
NHiS Limited
Complementary  
to our Binley’s  
healthcare  
information  
business
NHiS, which joined the Group  
in February 2013 provides 
business intelligence, data 
analysis, workflow tools and 
other services to pharmaceutical 
companies in the UK. 
NHiS was launched in 2007 and 
subsequently built up a leading 
position in business intelligence 
for pharmaceutical companies. 
This was very complementary 
to our Binley’s healthcare 
information business and the 
key objective was to combine 
resources and develop joint 
opportunities.
NHiS offers a variety of products 
across the four product sets: 
Quantis; Investigator; Insight;  
and Optimisation. Each product 
set is informed and powered by 
PLEXUS, the most comprehensive 
data warehouse of NHS and social 
care intelligence across the UK. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 09
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Since completing the acquisition we 
have transferred Binley’s own business 
intelligence arm into NHiS with 
technology, product and customers 
combined in the enlarged operation.  
The integration has gone well and the 
enlarged business is performing to plan. 
NHiS Collaboration with Wilmington 
Companies: Since joining Wilmington, 
NHiS has managed to create synergies 
with our Binley’s healthcare business  
and with other organisations in the  
wider group. These have included:
• Binley’s database specialists taking on   
 the data management responsibilities   
 for NHiS to deliver an improved   
 service at a reduced cost.
• Collaboration with Axco and other   
 Group companies regarding Sharepoint  
 based content management and web   
 delivery technology.
• Collaborating with APM France,   
 specialists in the provision of real time   
 news on French and international   
 healthcare markets, to investigate the   
 opportunity to replicate the NHiS value   
 proposition in France.
• Using the geographical presence of   
 Inese, the leading insurance information  
 provider for the Spanish market, to   
 research the potential to expand the   
 NHiS proposition to Spain.
It is early days but the cross pollination  
of ideas and opportunities for both NHiS 
and the wider Wilmington Group bodes 
well for the future.
Learn more online...
For more information about NHiS 
please scan the QR code with your 
smart phone or visit:
http://www.nhis.info/home/ Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 10
Continued focus on high quality, high margin business. 
Robust financial position.
In the fast growing  
Far Eastern markets the 
reputation for excellence 
was recognised with 
ICTA being awarded 
the “2013 Winner of the 
FICS Inspiring Educator 
Award” by the authorities 
in Singapore.
Charles Brady
Chief Executive
Platform in place to 
support future growth
Chief Executive’s Review Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 11
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
In addition to the continued investment in new products, people 
and associated infrastructure contribution grew by 17% to 
£6.1m (2012: £5.2m) reflecting the operational leverage within 
the businesses. Adjusting for acquisitions and currency effects 
underlying profits were up 9%. 
Banking & Compliance 
19% of Group revenue, 18% of Group contribution
The Banking & Compliance division provides corporate finance 
and capital markets training and accredited programmes in 
compliance, anti-money laundering, wealth management, 
financial crime and trust management. This division serves 
primarily tier one banks, the international financial services 
industry and major multinational companies.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 16,566 15,251 9
Contribution  3,513 3,049 15
Contribution % 21 20
The division continued to show strong revenue growth 
momentum with an increase of 9% compared to 2012. Growth 
drivers included the provision of compliance and Anti Money 
Laundering programmes to international banks and major 
multinational companies in the oil and gas industry and on line 
retailing with particularly strong growth from the Far East. We 
have also launched new initiatives in Australia, Hong Kong, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, the Middle East and Russia. 
The division has launched new portfolios into the governance, 
risk and compliance (‘’GRC’’) market, cyber- crime, and 
corporate governance markets. The acquisition of Compliance 
Week will provide a natural introduction into many of these areas 
in the US market; an area where our compliance business has 
had little access in the past.
In the fast growing Far Eastern markets the reputation for 
excellence was recognised with ICTA being awarded the “2013 
Winner of the FICS Inspiring Educator Award” by the authorities 
in Singapore and ICTA was also awarded the contract to 
develop and award qualifications in compliance for Malaysia  
by the national regulator.
AMT had a successful 2013 in which it reported a record sales 
performance since it joined the Group. 2013/14 has begun 
well with another strong start to its graduate entrant training 
for investment banks in its main centres of New York, Hong 
Kong and London. As AMT generates most of its revenue and 
contribution in the first quarter of the financial year this bodes 
well for the rest of the year. 
Contribution for the division was 15% ahead of last year at 
£3.5m (2012: £3.0m) despite continued investment in new 
programs and support systems which will help drive future 
growth. Margins also showed pleasing progress up one 
percentage point to 21%.
As previously announced we now manage and report our 
business by reference to six market facing divisions; Pensions & 
Insurance, Banking & Compliance, Healthcare, Legal, Business 
Intelligence and Accountancy.
Pensions & Insurance 
17% of Group revenue, 30% of Group contribution
The Pensions & Insurance division, which includes Axco, 
Pendragon, Inese and ICP provides in-depth regulatory and 
compliance information, market intelligence, events, training, 
analysis and workflow tools for the international insurance 
markets and the UK pensions industry.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 14,629 12,481 17
Contribution  6,093 5,227 17
Contribution % 42 42
Divisional revenue grew 17% (£2.1m) helped by a maiden 
revenue contribution of £1.1m from Inese which was acquired  
in March 2013. Underlying revenue growth was 8%.
Axco, our insurance analytics, legislation and compliance 
information business reported a 12% sales growth helped by  
the launch of new products and analytics services. Sales were 
also boosted by increasing demand from emerging markets;  
an area where the recent acquisition of Inese should assist  
future development in Latin America. 
Further investment and developments have been made in the 
content of Axco statistics based products and services as well 
as continued investment in technology for content management, 
CRM and product delivery. The Group has invested in and will 
continue to invest in Axco’s product portfolio and in extending 
its global presence and offering. The acquisition of Inese was a 
good example of this commitment and strategy and the recent 
acquisition of Compliance Week will advance Axco’s plans to 
develop an increased US operation and grow its substantial US 
customer base. 
Pendragon, the leading electronic regulatory information 
service for the UK pension industry, maintained its market 
leading position in the UK pensions market and recorded 
steady revenue growth of 3%. The business is investing in new 
delivery technology for launch in 2014 and this will become the 
backbone of its information offerings for the future.
ICP, the leading provider of credit insurance reports for 
developing markets, has seen a continued increase in demand 
for credit insurance reports, particularly in the Middle East and 
recorded revenue growth of 5%. It is investing in XML delivery 
of its content to provide its customers with more integrated and 
flexible usage of its proprietary researched data.
Inese has been successfully integrated into the Group  
sharing central HR and central finance systems. Inese, with 
the benefit of a contribution from its leading annual industry 
congress “Insurance Week” in May 2013, contributed £0.35m  
to operating profits. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 12
Chief Executive’s Review
INESE
A route to 
market for the 
Spanish and 
Latin American 
markets 
Inese, which joined Wilmington 
in March 2013, is a leading 
provider of Spanish language 
subscription based publications 
and online services along  
with training and a number  
of annual events including the 
leading industry congress; 
“Insurance Week”. Inese also 
operates a digital news service  
in Latin America.  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 13
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
As well as a quality, profitable business 
in its own right this acquisition was also 
made with the aim of complementing our 
Axco insurance information business, 
providing Spanish language competencies 
and a route to market for the Spanish and 
Latin American markets.
Inese Collaboration with Wilmington 
Companies: Since acquisition we have 
commenced a number of areas of 
collaboration with Inese;
• Sales and content support to, and   
 from, Axco.
• Support for marketing for the recent   
 Compliance Week acquisition.
• Technology co-development with   
 Compliance Week and other Group  
 divisions.
• Provision of a Madrid trading base  
 for other Group activities.
Our colleagues at Inese have quickly 
adapted to life in the Wilmington group 
and have already provided a valuable 
contribution not only to our business but 
also our exposure to other non-English 
language markets.
Learn more online...
For more information about Inese 
please scan the QR code with your 
smart phone or visit:
http://www.wilmington.co.uk/
where-we-are/inese Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 14
Healthcare
15% of Group revenue, 14% of Group contribution
The Healthcare division includes Agence de Presse Médicale 
(“APM”), our French language medical news agency, Binley’s, 
our UK healthcare information business and NHiS, a provider of 
business intelligence and data analysis to the pharmaceutical 
industry.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 13,058 12,666 3
Contribution  2,836 2,511 13
Contribution % 22 20
Revenue was up 3% (£0.4m) but adjusting for currency 
fluctuations and the contribution from NHiS (acquired February 
2013) of £0.9m underlying revenue was down 3%. 
APM has had an excellent year with underlying revenue up 2% 
despite closing its loss making APM Sante business. APM has 
one of the highest proportions of subscription income in the 
group at over 95%.
Binley’s underlying revenue was down 5% (£0.4m) due mainly 
to the fall-off in lower margin mailing services reported in our 
half year results and the business is reducing its associated 
cost base to compensate. Over the last few years Binley’s 
has developed a higher margin pharmaceutical business 
intelligence arm which has now been combined with our recent 
NHiS acquisition into a separate operation with staff as well as 
product and customers transferred to the enlarged operation. 
The integration has gone well and the enlarged business is 
performing to plan. 
Overall contribution, helped by the addition of NHiS which added 
£0.3m to profits, has increased by 13%. Underlying contribution 
adjusting for exchange and acquisitions was up 2% reflecting 
good overhead control and the growth of higher margin 
business offsetting a reduction in lower margin mailing services. 
Legal
23% of Group revenue, 14% of Group contribution
The Legal division provides a range of training, professional 
support services and information including continuing legal 
education (‘’CLE’’), expert witness training, databases and 
magazines. 
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 19,266 21,671 -11
Contribution  2,884 2,784 4
Contribution % 15 13
The Legal division’s revenue reduced by 11% (£2.4m) in the year 
but this reduction reflects the disposal of our company formations 
business in June 2012 (which contributed £1.1m to turnover  
in 2012), the disposal of Ark Australia and the rationalisation  
of our conference and course programme, a process started  
in late 2011. Underlying revenue decline was 3%. 
We have seen good growth in Bond Solon our witness 
familiarisation business which enjoyed another record sales year 
with revenue up 13%. We have also seen growth in our public 
courses and Scottish legal training business.
The emphasis, however, has been on improving margins and 
taking difficult proactive decisions. We have reorganised the 
legal division in response to market changes and have exited 
unprofitable areas such as Ark Australia, and our Legal Practice 
Courses, NCLT. In other areas we have cut course outputs 
through combining regional courses and focussing on fewer, 
more central, locations.
The result is a more focussed business with a lower and more 
flexible cost base from which we expect to see profit growth. 
Despite the decrease in revenue we saw contribution from the 
division increase by 4% to £2.9m and margins increase by two 
percentage points to 15%. The underlying growth in contribution 
was a pleasing 17%.
Business Intelligence 
13% of Group revenue, 13% of Group contribution
The Business Intelligence division includes our Data Suppression 
and Fraud Prevention services as well as our Charities, Fund 
Management and Film & TV services.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 10,948 12,388 -12
Contribution  2,523 2,917 -14
Contribution % 23 24
The division is experiencing the most significant challenges of 
all our businesses, as we continue the transition from a print 
and advertising based business to digital services, subscription 
information products and workflow tools.
Overall revenue was down 12% (£1.4m). As previously 
announced we exited contract directory publishing in June 2012 
and this reduced revenue by £2.2m compared to the prior year. 
This contract directory revenue was offset to a large degree by 
a full year contribution from Millennium (acquired May 2012). 
The underlying revenue decline adjusting for acquisitions and 
disposals was 11% and the largest impacts were seen in the 
Film & TV and Charities areas where we still have the majority of 
our remaining print and advertising products and are seeing the 
expected decline in legacy revenues being only partially offset by 
growth of new digital businesses. 
The remainder of the division; our data suppression, fraud 
prevention services and legacy notification businesses 
(Millennium and Smee & Ford) which do not have the pressure 
of migrating from print to a digital offering have seen underlying 
stable revenue and profit performance. 
  
Overall contribution dropped by 14% (£0.4m) to £2.5m however 
the underlying reduction was 11% reflecting improved underlying 
margins in legacy businesses as we transition from print to 
digital.
Chief Executive’s Review Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 15
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Accountancy
12% of Group revenue, 11% of Group contribution
The Accountancy division is the leading provider of training, 
technical support and marketing services to UK Accountancy 
firms and accountants in commerce and industry. 
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 10,581 10,869 -3
Contribution  2,135 2,053 4
Contribution % 20 19
Overall revenues declined by 3% mostly due to the scaling back 
of our course output from Quorum resulting in an improvement 
in Quorum’s margins and overall profits. We have seen good 
growth in revenue in both our Northern Ireland and Eire 
businesses reflecting to some extent positive changes in the 
local market conditions. 
Roughly 60% of the Division’s revenue is generated from training 
with a growing percentage from technical and marketing support 
for accountancy clients. Again, a number of initiatives have 
been implemented including the launch of our market leading 
accountancy firm website platform and technical micro websites 
optimised for specialist accountancy practices. 
Regulation and deregulation provide opportunities in the 
Accountancy market. With audit exemption limits continuing to 
rise and the introduction of micro-entity accounting simplification 
this is likely to be a constraining factor on short term revenue 
growth. However, offsetting this are opportunities from the future 
implementation of IFRS to UK entities and the demand for more 
sophisticated technical and marketing support. 
Operating profits grew 4% to £2.1m and margins were again 
improved, growing one percentage point to 20%.
Group Overheads
Group overheads, which include Board and head office salaries 
and associated costs as well as unallocated central overheads 
and exchange gains or losses on translating foreign currency 
assets and liabilities, increased by £0.2m to £3.1m. 
Acquisitions
NHiS acquired for £5.6m in February 2013 - a leading provider 
of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools and other 
services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK.
This acquisition is complementary to our existing Healthcare 
business intelligence business, and has allowed us to combine 
our respective strengths and resources to develop our leading 
position in this niche area. During the year we integrated our 
Binley’s business intelligence operation into NHiS. NHiS in 
the period generated 60% of its revenues from subscriptions 
and a further 35 % from repeatable information sales. All of 
its information products, which accounted for over 95% of its 
revenue were delivered digitally.
Inese acquired for €1.4m (£1.2m) in March 2013 - the leading 
provider of information and events to the insurance industry  
in Spain.
Inese provides Spanish language subscription based 
publications and online services along with training and 
a number of annual events including the leading industry 
congress; “Insurance Week”. Inese also operates a digital news 
service in Latin America. As well as providing greater access to 
the Spanish insurance market for Axco it provides opportunities 
in the Spanish language insurance markets in South America, 
an area that Axco has been actively seeking to access. Inese 
recorded subscription sales of 38% and 34% of repeatable 
revenue including annual events during the period since its 
acquisition. Advertising revenue represented 14% of revenue. 
Post year end, Compliance Week was acquired for $11.2m 
(£7.2m) in August 2013. Compliance Week is the leading 
provider of governance, risk and compliance (“GRC”) information 
and events for public companies and large enterprises primarily 
in the US.
Compliance Week focuses on regulatory and compliance 
issues related to financial reporting, regulatory enforcement, 
corporate governance, enterprise risk management and related 
global issues, from consumer privacy to data management. 
Located in Boston, USA it provides a base for selective further 
US expansion and investment. This foothold in the US will also 
help the Group to expand Axco insurance information products 
and to take the Group’s compliance businesses into the US 
market. The Group also expects to provide opportunities to 
develop Compliance Week’s presence outside of its traditional 
US heartland.
Charles Brady
Chief Executive
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 16
I am pleased to present my Financial Review of the results  
for the twelve months ended 30 June 2013.
Group 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 85,048 85,326 0
Adjusted EBITA 16,865 15,682 8
Adjusted EBITA margin % 19.8 18.4
Adjusted results
Reference is occasionally made in this financial review to adjusted 
results. Adjusted results in the opinion of the Directors provide a 
more comparable indication of the Group’s underlying financial 
performance and exclude adjusting items set out in note 2.  
We have changed the definition of adjusted EBITA and adjusted 
profit before tax to include amortisation of computer software.
Revenue
Revenue for the twelve months to 30 June 2013 was £0.3m 
lower at £85.0m (2012: £85.3m). On a like-for-like basis 
(excluding the impact of acquisitions, foreign exchange and 
disposals) underlying revenue was largely unchanged. 
Operating expenses
Operating expenses, excluding amortisation of intangible assets 
and non-recurring items, were £42.3m (2012: £43.5m), down 3%.
Amortisation of Intangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets increased from £6.0m to £6.9m 
reflecting the acquisitions of the businesses made in the period 
offset by assets which had been fully amortised in previous 
years. Also included is £0.7m of accelerated amortisation in 
respect of intangibles within our Business Intelligence division.
Net gain on disposal of property
In December 2012 the Group disposed of one of its freehold 
properties for £4.4m in cash and recorded a gain, net of 
associated costs, of £3.3m.
Impairment of Goodwill
Within our Business Intelligence division; Wilmington Professional 
Publishing (‘’WPP’’) our legacy print directories, Charities and 
Film and TV cash generating unit (CGU); has experienced 
significant challenges including the transition from print and 
advertising based business to digital services. This has resulted 
in indicators of impairment for the CGU. Updated three year 
plans have been produced for the CGU which have resulted  
in a non-cash impairment in the carrying value of goodwill of 
£4.5m and further information is given in note 13. 
Non Recurring costs 
The Group incurred net non-recurring costs of £1.3m compared 
to a net cost of £0.9m in 2012. £0.5m of these costs were non 
cash movements; £0.3m relates to the write down of freehold 
property held for resale and £0.2m relates to termination of 
leases and empty property provisions including our former 
head office. £0.3m of non-recurring costs relate to costs of 
acquisitions made in the year. The remainder of the non-
recurring costs was associated with the reorganisation and 
centralisation of back office functions in the UK, the exit costs 
of dissolving the NCLT joint venture and the completion of the 
Legal Division reorganisation. 
Offsetting these was a reduction in the estimated deferred 
consideration payable within our Business Intelligence Division 
of £0.4m
Finance costs
Finance costs were down 17% from £2.7m to £2.3m driven 
by strong cash flow in the period. The Group had seen cash 
inflows associated with the sale of assets, businesses, treasury 
shares and operational cash flows, offset by the acquisition of 
businesses and the purchase of minority interests. This resulted 
in lower net debt of £33.4m by the year end (2012: £36.2m).
Income tax expense
Income tax expense increased by £0.2m (16%) from £1.3m to 
£1.5m. The increase in the tax expense is due to larger deferred 
tax credits in 2012 and higher taxable profits in our overseas 
subsidiaries. The effective tax rate increased to 29% from 20% 
in 2012 reflecting the larger deferred tax credits in 2012 and the 
non-taxable impact of the impairment provision and the property 
disposal.
Operating Profits 
Operating profits (“EBIT”) were down from £9.0m to £7.4m 
largely due to the impairment charge of £4.5m. Adjusted EBITA 
was up 8% at £16.9m (2012: £15.7m) and Adjusted EBITA 
margins were up 1.4 percentage points to 19.8% (2012 18.4%). 
Acquisitions in the year contributed £0.7m to operating profits. 
Underlying adjusted EBITA grew by 7%.
Profit from continuing activities before income tax 
Profit from continuing activities before income tax was down 
from £6.3m to £5.1m. This reflects a net profit of £3.3m from 
the disposal of our surplus London property, lower bank 
charges and interest and improved EBITA offset by a non-cash 
impairment charge of £4.5m and higher exceptional costs.
Adjusted Profit before Tax increased by 11% to £14.7m  
(2012: £13.2m). 
Earnings per share
Adjusted Earnings per Share increased by 12% to 13.06p  
(2012: 11.71p). Basic earnings per share fell to 4.17p from 
5.81p and diluted earnings per share fell to 4.075p from 5.63p.
Goodwill 
Goodwill decreased by £1.3m to £73.3m due to additions from 
acquisitions in the year (£3.3m) offset by an impairment provision 
of £4.5m.
Intangible Fixed Assets 
Intangible Fixed Assets remained unchanged reflecting normal 
and accelerated amortisation, offset by £5.8m from acquisitions 
made in the year.
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Tangible Fixed Assets decreased by £0.9m to £5.9m reflecting 
the £0.3m provision (see note 5) representing a permanent 
reduction in value of a surplus freehold property which was 
put up for sale at the year end and transferred to “non-current 
assets held for sale”. Additions to tangible fixed assets were 
£1.2m (2012: £1.0m).
Financial Review  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 17
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Trade and other receivables
Trade Debtors within Trade and Other Receivables increased 
£1.2m compared to June 2012 reflecting acquisitions made 
during the year.
Current Liabilities 
Trade and Other Creditors which includes deferred income were 
up £3.7m compared to 30 June 2012 reflecting the increase in 
deferred income and acquisitions made in the year.
Subscriptions and Deferred Income, which represents revenue 
received in advance increased by 7% from £17.3m in 2012 
to £18.6m. The increase of £1.1m relates to Inese and NHiS 
acquired in the year. Axco recorded an increase in deferred 
income of 14% (£0.5m). 2012 included £0.3m relating to 
discontinued businesses.
Provisions for purchase of non- controlling interest
Provisions for purchase of non-controlling interests of £1.8m 
were settled during the year by a payment of £1.7m in respect 
of The Matchett Group. The difference of £0.1m was credited to 
goodwill.
Net Debt
Net debt which includes cash and cash equivalents, bank loans 
and bank overdrafts was £33.4m (2012: £36.2m), a decrease 
of £2.8m despite spending a net £6.3m in cash on acquisitions 
in the period. Operating cash flow and cash conversion was 
strong; with the latter increasing to 115% (2012: 111%) which 
helped towards the debt reduction.
The net debt at 30 June 2013 represented just over half of our 
debt facility of £65m. 
Dividend
It is the Board’s intention to maintain the dividend at the 
same level as the prior year. A final dividend of 3.5p per share 
(June 2012 final 3.5p) will be paid on 7 November 2013 to 
shareholders on the register as at 11 October 2013.
Treasury Policy
Treasury policies are approved by the Board. The Executive 
Directors have the delegated authority to approve financial 
transactions within agreed terms of reference. The Group’s 
financial instruments comprise principally bank borrowings  
and associated cash flow hedges, cash and various other  
items that arise directly from its trading operations such as  
trade receivables, trade payables and subscriptions and fees  
in advance. The main purpose of these financial instruments is  
to ensure that finance is available for the Group’s operations. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments 
are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. 
The Group’s credit risk is discussed in note 23 to the Financial 
Statements. The Board reviews and agrees policies for 
managing each of these risks, as summarised below.  
These policies are unchanged from the previous year.
a) Interest rate risk
The Group financing arrangements include external debt that 
is subject to a variable interest rate. The Group is consequently 
exposed to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market 
interest rates applicable to that external finance. In particular, 
interest is charged on the £40m (2012: £38m) amount drawn 
down on the revolving credit facility (see note 21) at a rate of 
between 2.00 and 2.75 per cent above LIBOR depending upon 
leverage. Cash flow volatility therefore arises from movements in 
the LIBOR interest rates.
The Group policy is to enter into interest rate swap contracts 
to maintain the ratio of fixed to variable rate debt at a level that 
achieves a reasonable cost of debt whilst reducing the exposure 
to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest 
rates.
b) Liquidity and capital risk
The Group has historically expanded its operations both 
organically and via acquisition, financed partly by retained profits 
but also via external finance. As well as financing cash outflows, 
the Group’s activities give rise to working capital obligations and 
other operational cash outflows. The Group is consequently 
exposed to the risk that it cannot meet its obligations as they  
fall due, or can only meet them at an uneconomic price.
The Group policy is to preserve a strong capital base in order 
to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to 
safeguard the future development of the business, but also  
to balance these objectives with the efficient use of capital.  
The Group has an unsecured committed bank facility of £65m 
(2012: £65m) to February 2016. The facility currently comprises 
a revolving credit facility of £60m (2012: £60m) and an overdraft 
facility of £5m (2012: £5m). At 30 June 2013, £40m of the 
revolving credit facility was drawn down (2012: £38m). The bank 
overdrafts are the subject of a Group set-off arrangement.
c) Foreign currency risk
The currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates is Sterling, and this is also the currency in 
which the Group presents its Financial Statements. However, 
the Group has significant Euro and US dollar cash flows arising 
from international trading and overseas operations. The Group 
is consequently exposed to cash flow volatility arising from 
fluctuations in the applicable exchange rates for converting 
Euros and US dollars to Sterling.
The Group policy is to fix the exchange rate in relation to a 
periodically reassessed set percentage of expected Euro and 
US dollar net cash inflows arising from international trading, 
by entering into foreign currency contracts to sell a specified 
amount of Euros or US dollars on a specified future date at a 
specified exchange rate. This set percentage is approved by  
the Board as part of the budgeting procedures.
The Group policy is to finance investment in overseas operations 
from borrowings in the local currency of the relevant operation, 
so as to achieve a natural hedge of the foreign currency 
translation risk.
Anthony Foye
Chief Finance Officer
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 18
Adjusted Profit before Tax 
This measure indicates the trading profits of the Group, after bank and 
interest charges, but before amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets and goodwill, non-recurring items, the unwinding of the discounts 
on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests 
and share-based payments. Amortisation and impairment are non-cash 
technical adjustments which do not necessarily reflect the inherent value 
of assets. This is particularly the case where the value of assets has been 
enhanced as a consequence of management action.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, Adjusted Profit before Tax increased by 
11% to £14.7m (2012: £13.2m). 
Adjusted Earnings per Share
This key measure indicates the underlying profit attributable to 
individual shareholders. It measures not only trading performance, 
but also the impact of treasury management, capital structure, bank 
and interest charges, as well as the efficient structuring of the Group 
to minimise taxes. Our business and financial strategy is directed at 
delivering consistent adjusted earnings per share growth. Our incentive 
programmes are designed to support this strategy.
For the year ended 30 June 2013, Adjusted Earnings per Share 
increased by 12% to 13.06p per share (2012: 11.71p). The increase was 
due to better overall financial performance achieved by the businesses.
Cash conversion
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the associated cash 
flow. The Group’s business is strongly cash generative; operating cash 
flow for the year ended 30 June 2013 of £19.4m represented 115% of 
operating profit before interest and amortisation (2012: £17.4m,111%). 
Free cash flow, which is calculated after deduction from operating cash 
flow of capital expenditure, payment of corporation tax and payment of 
interest, increased by 22% to £12.4m (2012: £10.2m).
+11
%
Adjusted Profit before 
Tax increased by 11%
£’m
13.4
13.2
+12
%
Adjusted Earnings per 
Share increased by 12% 
00.0p
11.79p
11.71p
13.06p
Operational Targets
14.7
11  12  13
22
%
Free cash flow  
increased by 22%
£’m
7.1
10.2
12.4
11  12  13
11  12  13
At a Group level, we have seven key financial and 
operational targets.
  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 19
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
At a Group level, we have seven key financial and operational targets. In addition, each of the operating divisions monitors a 
number of key performance indicators. This year we delivered an improved performance against the majority of our financial 
and operational targets. By continuing to focus on these benchmarks, we have been able to concentrate on mitigating the 
adverse effects of the global recession and produce good results whilst establishing a more resilient and efficient platform to 
support future growth.
Consistent and Sustainable Revenue Streams
The disposal of non-core assets in recent years has allowed the Group 
to focus on a portfolio of assets based in key professional markets, with 
the emphasis on provision of information, compliance and education to 
these markets. This push towards more robust and sustainable revenue 
streams has resulted in a strong portfolio of offerings, which includes: 
• data, information, intelligence and solution sales;
• professional education, training, events and services; and
• professional accreditation and assessment.
The Group has continued to increase the supply of its products and 
services online and digitally, but remains conscious of the needs of 
markets which continue to prefer some products produced in hard copy 
format or in person. Our businesses are supported by management and 
delivery systems utilising appropriate technology. We have continued 
to invest considerable resources in the improvement of our operating 
systems and online services which will deliver benefits in the current  
year and beyond. 
Adjusted Operating Margin (“Return on Sales”)
Adjusted Operating Margin or Return on Sales (“ROS”) is defined as 
Adjusted EBITA (see note 2) expressed as a percentage of Revenue. 
During the year ended 30 June 2013 ROS was 19.8% compared to 
18.4% in the prior year.
Return on Equity (“ROE”)
Return on Equity is defined as the Adjusted Profit before Tax (see note 2) 
expressed as a percentage of the average shareholders funds during the 
year. ROE was 28.1% for the year to 30 June 2013, compared to 26.3% 
in the prior year.
19.8
%
ROS was 19.8% compared to 18.4%  
in the prior year.
28.1
%
ROE was 28.1% for the year to 30 June 2013, 
compared to 26.3% in the prior year.
79
%
Subscriptions and repeatable revenue 
represent 79% of Group turnover 
compared to 78% in the prior year.
79
%
Digital revenue represents 79% of our 
content revenue compared to 76% in 
the prior year. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 20
Principal Risks
To ensure staff retention the Group operates competitive remuneration packages for key 
individuals. Just as importantly, it operates a culture where each individual can maximise his  
or her potential. Wilmington is also committed to further develop staff and last year launched 
a Management Development Programme for senior managers. It also launched, last year, a 
“Vision and Values” programme. The retention and motivation of key personnel is fundamental 
in the future success of Wilmington, as is the ability to recruit new personnel to support future 
growth.
Whilst our businesses could be adversely affected if these electronic delivery platforms and 
networks were to experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach, the Group is 
sufficiently diversified to ensure such disruption is minimised. During the year under review the 
Group has continued to invest in new systems and electronic platforms with greater protection 
against failure. This strategy to move to standardised systems facilitates greater control and 
improves our ability to mitigate this risk.
Wilmington is a people-
based business; failure 
to attract or retain key 
employees could seriously 
impede future growth. 
Wilmington’s business is 
increasingly dependent on 
electronic platforms and 
distribution systems, primarily 
the internet, for delivery of  
its products and services. 
Our products and services 
largely consist of intellectual 
property content delivered 
through a variety of media. 
Wilmington relies on trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property laws to 
establish and protect its proprietary rights in these products and services. The Group makes 
every effort to protect this asset base and actively pursues any infringements. 
The Group is increasingly 
required to comply with  
strict privacy and data 
protection legislation.
The businesses can be 
sensitive to disruptions such 
as Government legislation, 
adverse regulatory change, 
terrorism, natural disasters 
and other significant adverse 
events. 
The need to comply with these regulations can restrict the Group’s ability to create and utilise 
its databases. To ensure we are compliant with the relevant data protection legislation, we 
commissioned an extensive external audit of the Group’s data management systems and  
we have adopted procedures to ensure compliance with best practice.
Last year, we increased our capacity for key staff to work remotely as part of the preparation 
for the Olympic Games. During the year under review there were no major incidents to report. 
Nevertheless, we maintain and have extended our disaster recovery plans to mitigate the 
consequences of potential adverse events. Our insurance cover includes protection against  
acts of terrorism. 
Risk Mitigation
The success of the Group’s businesses is in part dependent on the success of their branded 
publications and events. Wilmington is conscious of the need to ensure the careful management 
of products and services to reduce this risk.
There is an element 
of reputational risk for 
Wilmington, particularly 
in areas where we have 
high profile products 
and services. Damage to 
reputation and/or brand 
could lead to an adverse 
impact on the Group. 
All parts of the business identify risks and seek to ensure that
procedures and strategies are in place so that risks can be
managed or mitigated wherever possible. Some of the main 
risks which affect the Group as a whole include the following:  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 21
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Wilmington endeavours to invest resources to best respond to the competitive landscape. The business operates 
in highly competitive 
markets that are constantly 
challenging the boundaries 
of technological advances, 
regulation and legislation, and 
which have new competitors 
entering the market space.
Whilst Wilmington has a strong track record for completing and executing acquisitions 
efficiently, there is no certainty in the future of being able to derive all the anticipated benefits 
from acquisitions. 
Wilmington has an acquisition 
strategy to further grow the 
business and there is risk 
associated with making future 
acquisitions, in particular in 
identifying targets, realising 
expected returns and 
integrating newly acquired 
businesses. 
Whilst this provides growth in new jurisdictions, it comes coupled with risks in terms of cultural 
and political conditions, foreign laws and legislations, tax changes, currency fluctuations, 
language barriers, differing regulatory requirements and protecting Wilmington IP. Wilmington 
chooses to expand into existing geographical markets or into new markets for which it has 
fully analysed the risks and business implications.
The information may be free to access or inexpensive and may compete directly with paid 
for, value-added information supplied by the Group. The risk element is largely in the case of 
government agencies and other not-for-profit organisations that may make information publicly 
available at no cost, which could reduce demand for some product groups. Wilmington 
endeavours to respond by offering enriched data and information available  
in an easily accessible format.
Wilmington is increasingly 
operating in an international 
environment.
Freely available information 
principally via the internet 
poses a potential risk for  
the Group.  
Risk Mitigation
In addition to the risks identified above, further information on additional risks is provided 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements:
• The Overview of the Group’s Financial Performance on page 17 covers the main risks arising 
from the Group’s financial instruments which are interest rate risk, liquidity and capital risk, 
and foreign currency risk.
• The Group’s credit risk is discussed in note 23 of the Financial Statements.
The key challenges facing Wilmington arise from the highly competitive and rapidly changing nature of our markets, the 
increasingly technological nature of our products and services, and legal and regulatory uncertainties. Certain parts of our 
businesses are also affected by the (often positive) impact of changes in professional regulation and legislation and by the 
impact of the economic cycle on advertising and promotional spending. The UK economic environment also constitutes  
a risk factor, particularly in the legal and financial sectors, which has impacted on the Group’s profitability. Key supplier  
and customer loss feature as a risk. However, we feel that our supplier and customer bases are both sufficiently diverse. 
Wilmington has an established risk management procedure that is embedded in the operations of its trading divisions  
and is reviewed by the Board. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 22
Social and Community
Wilmington seeks to be a socially responsible group of 
businesses that have a positive impact on the communities 
within which it operates. 
We seek to employ a workforce that reflects both the diversity  
of our customers and the communities where we have a 
presence. We do not discriminate on grounds of age, sex,  
race, colour, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or disability.  
We strive to provide all our employees the opportunity to grow 
and develop whilst employed at Wilmington. This includes 
providing excellent working conditions, the latest technology  
and appropriate training and development to help and 
encourage our employees fulfill their potential. 
During this financial year Wilmington continued its sponsorship 
of the International Compliance Association (“ICA”) and 
work with the Financial Skills Partnership (”FSP”). In addition 
Wilmington, through its relationship with professional bodies 
such as the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners (“STEP”) 
and ICA, provided scholarships to able and deserving students 
in the Compliance, AML and Trusts areas around the world. 
Our apprentice and intern investments have also continued 
to grow during this time, across different businesses and 
key geographical locations, developing further the Group’s 
community and people investment over and above the 
commitment we make to our employees.
Wilmington continued to invest in www.charitychoice.co.uk,  
a website which supports charities and raises awareness  
of their fundraising activities. The online donation service saw 
donations during the year of £723,601 for various charities.
Environmental Policies 
The Board recognises that Wilmington’s business has an impact 
on the environment, principally through the use of energy, waste 
generation, paper use and print and production technologies. 
We are committed to reducing the impact wherever possible 
and to utilising sustainable materials and technology. We 
seek to ensure that Wilmington’s divisions are compliant with 
relevant environmental legislation and require our suppliers and 
contractors to meet the same objectives. Furthermore, our 
progress towards a digitally based business is reducing our 
environmental impact. Accordingly whilst environmental  
issues are important we do not believe that they constitute  
a risk for the Group.
The Head of Facilities Management for the Group is responsible 
for managing and monitoring environmental issues across  
the Group.
Our policies are to:
• Meet or exceed the requirements of current environmental 
legislation that relates to the Group.
• Minimise energy and water usage in our buildings, vehicles 
and processes and improve the efficient use of those 
resources.
• Apply the principles of continuous improvement in respect 
of air, water, noise and light pollution from our premises, and 
reduce any impacts from our operations on the environment 
and local community.
• Minimise our waste and then reuse or recycle as much of  
it as possible. 
• As far as possible, purchase products and services that do 
the least damage to the environment and encourage others  
to do the same.
• Ensure environmental and energy performance issues are 
considered in the acquisition, refurbishment, design, location 
and use of buildings.
• Assess the environmental impact of any new processes  
or products we intend to introduce in advance.
• Ensure understanding of our environmental policy internally 
and externally and communicate its performance on a regular 
basis, and encourage feedback.
• Set and monitor KPI’s for our environmental performance  
at least annually.
• Update our Environmental Policy regularly.
Corporate and  
Social Responsibility Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 23
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Paper 
Paper is sourced from a chain of custody certified suppliers 
to ensure only sustainable raw materials are used within its 
production. The vast majority of paper is produced at mills  
with ISO14001 accreditation and EMAS (Environmental 
Management Systems) registration.
Printers
All our major print suppliers are now ISO14001 certified  
or encouraged to work towards a minimum of this standard.  
Many now also utilise a FSC or PEFC chain of custody 
certification. All our printers work in a digital environment,  
with the resultant reduction in transport, courier and energy 
utilising activities.
Packaging
For magazines we use recyclable polythene with a thickness  
of 25 microns. Where possible we are also converting to  
oxo-biodegradable and potato starch forms of polythene. 
Offices
The Group’s activities are primarily based in office 
accommodation and, wherever practicable, the Group  
adopts energy saving policies. Any new and replacement  
air-conditioning units are being sourced from the energy 
efficient range and show a 70% saving in energy. With regard 
to the office environment, the Group encourages the recycling 
of materials such as paper, cardboard, toners and cartridges 
wherever possible. The Group also ensures the correct disposal 
of electrical equipment and fluorescent tubes is compliant with 
the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE). 
During the year, we have reduced our property portfolio by 
43,000 sq feet, representing approximately a third of our 
previous occupancy space. We have also installed occupancy 
detection lighting and eco-friendly WC’s and basin taps in  
a number of areas around the Group. 
Travel 
The introduction of video conferencing technology in the  
Groups’ offices has significantly reduced the requirement for 
travel, particularly when dealing with overseas offices and clients. 
The success of training webinars has also seen the additional 
benefit of reducing delegate travel to venues. Wilmington is also 
continuing its cycle incentive incorporating the Cycle to Work 
scheme which is within the guidelines of the Government’s 
green travel plan. As part of the scheme Wilmington provides 
employees with a loan for cycle and safety equipment up to 
a maximum of £1,000. To further support the cycle scheme, 
Wilmington has also arranged for free cycle parking facilities  
for employees based in its London offices.
We have reduced  
our property portfolio 
by 43,000 sq feet, 
representing 
approximately a  
third of our previous  
occupancy space. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 24
Working Together
Directors and  
Senior Management
The Board of Directors and the leadership team are 
committed to ensuring we remain a great place to  
work and become an employer of choice where people 
are rewarded and recognised for their contribution 
and have the opportunity for new challenges and 
professional growth.
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
Mark Asplin was appointed Chairman 
on 15 November 2011 in succession 
to David Summers. Mark Asplin, aged 
53, is a Chartered Accountant and 
joined the Board in April 2005. He was 
until 2002 a partner at KPMG. During 
his time at KPMG he helped build its 
Corporate Finance practice, undertaking 
roles which included Head of M & A 
and Head of Valuations, both for the 
central region of the UK. He left KPMG 
to set up Jasper Corporate Finance, an 
independent corporate finance practice. 
He is also a member of the Group’s Audit 
Committee, Nomination Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee.
Charles J Brady
Chief Executive 
Charles Brady, aged 57 is a solicitor 
and was a law lecturer before founding 
in 1985 the business which is now CLT. 
CLT was acquired by Wilmington in June 
1999. Charles Brady joined the Board 
in November 1999 and was appointed 
Chief Executive in February 2002. He 
is a member of the Group’s Nomination 
Committee.
Anthony Foye 
Chief Finance Officer
Tony Foye, aged 51, who is a Chartered 
Accountant, joined the Board on 3 
September 2012. Between 1987 and 
2004 Tony was Group Finance Director 
of Taylor & Francis Group plc. On Taylor & 
Francis’ merger in May 2004 with Informa 
plc, Tony became Group Finance Director 
of the enlarged group, a position he held 
until December 2007. From January 2008, 
Tony worked on a number of projects with 
various private equity groups. Between 
May 2009 and March 2011 Tony was 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer of Critical Information Group plc. 
He was also a Non Executive Director 
of YouGov plc from March 2005 to June 
2009. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 25
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Linda Wake 
Deputy Group Finance Director
Linda Wake qualified as a Chartered 
management accountant in 2000, having 
worked in the media industry since 1995. 
She joined Wilmington in 2004 and was 
quickly promoted to Divisional Finance 
Director. She joined the Executive team in 
October 2010 and has since taken on the 
role of Deputy Group Finance Director.
Terry B Garthwaite
Non-Executive Director  
Terry Garthwaite, aged 67, joined the 
Board in June 2005. He is a Chartered 
Accountant and enjoyed a distinguished 
career in finance and industry including a 
period as Finance Director of engineering 
group Senior plc. He is currently a  
non-executive director of electronics 
group Renishaw plc and of European 
power transmissions supplier Brammer 
PLC. Terry is Chairman of the Group’s 
Audit Committee and a member of the 
Group’s Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees.
08 Nathalie Schwarz
Non-Executive Director 
Nathalie Scharwz, aged 43, joined the 
Board as Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 1 December 2011. Nathalie 
was formerly the Commercial and 
Corporate Development Director on the 
Board at Channel 4 Television and was 
Strategy and Development Director on 
the Board of Capital Radio plc. Nathalie 
qualified as a solicitor with Clifford 
Chance and is Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. She is also a member 
of the Group’s Audit and Nomination 
Committees.
Richard Cockton
Company Secretary
Richard Cockton, aged 60, qualified as 
a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & 
Lybrand and joined Wilmington in 1998. 
He was appointed Company Secretary  
in 2008.
Neil E Smith
Chief Operating Officer 
Neil Smith, aged 42, Wilmington’s Chief 
Operating Officer, joined the Board as 
an Executive Director on 1 December 
2011. Neil Smith has worked in the 
media industry for 22 years. In 1997 he 
led an MBO of the Business Information 
division of Macmillan which was backed 
by Wilmington and he subsequently 
led the development of the Group’s 
professional information divisions prior to 
his appointment as Group Chief Operating 
Officer. Neil has been a member of the 
Wilmington Executive Board since 2004 
and in 2005 he gained a Masters in 
Finance (with distinction) from London 
Business School.
Derek Carter
Non-Executive Director 
Derek Carter, aged 64, joined the 
Board as Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 1 December 2011. Derek 
was previously Chief Executive of Emap 
Communications for 11 years, where he 
led Emap’s growth into a market leading 
mixed media business built on powerful 
information, events and magazine brands 
and its subsequent sale to Apax/GMG 
in 2008. Derek, who was previously 
Chairman of the Periodical Publishers 
Association and currently Non-Executive 
Chairman of Docugroup, a leading 
European information business serving 
the construction sector, is the new 
Senior Independent Director (“SID”) and 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
He is also a member of the Group’s Audit 
and Remuneration Committees. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 26 26
Directors’ Report 
for the year ended 30 June 2013
The Directors present their Annual Report together with the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Business review
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Chairman’s Statement, Business Review and Financial review 
as set out on pages 6 to 17 provide information about the Group’s strategy, its businesses, its principal activities and its financial 
performance during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, its key financial and operational targets (“KPI’s”) 
and its future outlook, all of which are incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
The Group’s acquisitions and disposals during the year are dealt with in note 12 to the Financial Statements.
The Group has a branch in Singapore. Its other overseas operations are subsidiaries (see note 16 to the Financial Statements).
Results
The Group’s financial results are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 47. Revenue is analysed by business 
segment and geographically in note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. A profit for the year attributable to the owners of 
the parent of £3,537,000 (2012: £4,884,000) has been taken to reserves.
Dividends
The Directors recommend that a final dividend for the year of 3.5p per ordinary share be paid on 7 November 2013 to shareholders 
on the register on 11 October 2013, which together with the interim dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share already paid makes a total 
dividend for the year of 7.0p (2012: 7.0p) per ordinary share.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who have served during the year and up to the date of this report are set out on pages 24 to 25 which include brief 
biographical details. Their remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration on pages 35 to 44.
All Executive and Non-Executive directors offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting as a result of the 
Company deciding to adopt annual re-election of Directors in line with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A Foye was appointed to the Board on 3 September 2012. R Brookes resigned from the Board on 14 November 2012.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are shown in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration.
Interests in contracts
Other than as disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration, none of the Directors had any material interest in any contract, 
other than an employment contract, that was significant in relation to the Group’s business at any time during the year.
Takeover directive disclosures
As at 30 June 2013, the Company had only one authorised class of share, namely ordinary shares of 5p each, of which there were 
86,103,137 in issue (2012: 86,103,137). There are no special arrangements or restrictions relating to any of these shares, whether in 
terms of transfers, voting rights, or relating to changes in control of the Company. The Company does not have any special rules in 
place regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors, or regarding amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company seeks authority from its Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares.
Under the terms of the Company’s banking arrangements, in the event that a person or group of persons acting in concert gains 
control of the Company, the lending banks may require, by giving not less than 30 days’ notice, the repayment and cancellation of 
the facilities.
Except for share options and awards, there are no special conditions or agreements in place which would take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a takeover. Subject to various conditions, if the Company is taken over, all share options and awards 
will vest and may be exercised. Apart from the interests of the Directors disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and 
the substantial interests listed below, there are no individuals or entities with significant holdings, either direct or indirect, in the 
Company. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 27 27
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Substantial shareholdings
As at 12 September 2013, the Company had been notified of interests in 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital of the 
Company as shown below. Interests are shown as a percentage of shares in issue at 19 September 2013.
   
    Number of
    ordinary shares Percentage
Liontrust Investment Partners LLP    11,147,961 12.95
Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd    8,372,329 9.72
Herald Investment Management Ltd    5,127,501 5.96
Threadneedle Investments    4,957,500 5.76
C J Brady    3,412,151 3.96
Legal & General Group Plc    3,256,673 3.78
B D Gilbert    3,222,223 3.74
R A Conwell    3,093,054 3.59
Strategic Equity Capital Plc    2,730,027 3.17
Significant contractual or other arrangement
The Company and its subsidiary undertakings do not have any contractual or other arrangements with any continuing shareholders 
which are essential to the business of the Company.
Land and buildings
The Directors do not believe that there is a significant difference between the market values and the balance sheet values of the 
Group’s interests in freehold land and buildings.
Changes in share capital
At 12 September 2013, 1,142,000 (2012: 1,942,000) shares had been bought pursuant to the instruction given to Numis Securities 
Limited in 2007 and 2008 by the Company to buy its own shares up to a value of £12m within certain parameters. This instruction is 
consistent with the Group capital management policy (see ‘Liquidity and capital risk’ in note 23 to the Financial Statements).
The Company sold 800,000 treasury shares during the year (2012: nil). At 30 June 2013, 1,142,000 shares were held in Treasury 
(2012: 1,942,000), which represents 1.3% (2012: 2.3%) of the called up share capital of the Company.
Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s treasury policies is set out in the Business Review on page 17. Details of the Group’s financial 
instruments are set out in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Parent Company and Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted in the European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or 
loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted in the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements;
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors’ Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 28 28
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors and Senior Management section of the Annual Report 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted in the European Union, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
• the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
Each of the Directors has confirmed that:
(a) so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware, and
(b) he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any  
 relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
Charitable donations
The Group made charitable donations of £3,063 (2012: £3,010) during the year. No political donations were made during the year 
(2012: £nil).
Supplier payment policy
The Group endeavours to settle payments to its suppliers in accordance with mutually agreed terms and conditions of business. 
The average time taken to pay suppliers was 56 days (2012: 56 days).
Employees
The Group’s policy is to consider all job applications on a fair basis free from discrimination in relation to age, sex, race, colour, 
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or handicap not related to job performance. Every consideration is given to applications for 
employment from disabled persons, where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under 
normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development wherever appropriate.
Employee involvement
The Group places a great deal of importance on communicating its plans and objectives to its entire staff and, where appropriate, 
consulting with them. Within each of the segments there are profit centres run by experienced business managers, many of 
whom are shareholders in the Company or its subsidiary undertakings and whose remuneration is linked to revenue and/or profit 
achievements.
The Group operates share option and award schemes, details of which are given both below and in note 26 to the financial 
statements.
Share options and awards
The Wilmington Group plc 1999 Approved Share Option Scheme (the “Approved Scheme”) was adopted on 2 September 1999 and 
approved by the Inland Revenue on 29 September 1999. The Approved Scheme is administered by the Remuneration Committee 
and provides for the grant of non-transferable options to acquire shares in the Company at prevailing market prices at the time of 
grant. The exercise of options granted under the Approved Scheme is normally conditional upon the achievement of performance 
targets set out by the Remuneration Committee. Details of outstanding options are set out in note 26 to the financial statements. 
No consideration is payable for the grant of options and options may generally be exercised three years after the date of their grant 
(subject to the achievement of any applicable performance targets).
No options were granted during the year under the above scheme.
The Wilmington Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan (the “Performance Share Plan”) was adopted on 8 November 2007 to 
provide share-based incentives to senior executives. Further details are set out in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 
35 to 44.
On 21 October 2008, 323,634 conditional awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan, of which 275,309 were granted 
to Directors (including Neil E Smith who was subsequently appointed a Director on 1 December 2011). All of these awards lapsed in 
the year ended 30 June 2012.
Directors’ Report continued
for the year ended 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 29 29
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
On 18 September 2009, 520,514 conditional awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan, of which 456,424 were 
granted to Directors (including Neil E Smith who was subsequently appointed a Director on 1 December 2011). During the year, all 
these awards lapsed.
On 20 October 2010, 1,326,159 conditional awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan, of which 411,818 were 
granted to Directors (including Neil E Smith who was subsequently appointed a Director on 1 December 2011). 
On 19 October 2011, 911,959 conditional awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan, of which 255,319 were granted 
to Directors (including Neil E Smith who was subsequently appointed a Director on 1 December 2011).
On 17 October 2012, 444,198 conditional awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan, of which 399,039 were granted 
to Directors.
Pension schemes
In compliance with legislation, all UK employees have access to a stakeholder pension scheme.
Health and safety policy
Management at all levels are conscious of and committed to their responsibilities in securing the health, safety and welfare of 
employees and others, arising from the Group’s activities.
Insurance
To preclude the possibility of the Company incurring expenses which might arise from the need to indemnify a Director or Officer 
from claims made against him or her or the cost associated with their defence, the Group has effected Directors’ and Officers’ 
qualifying third party liability insurance as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, which has been in force throughout the financial 
year and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at the offices of Hawkpoint, 41 Lothbury, 
London, EC2R 7AE on 5 November 2013 will be sent out with this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Going Concern
As highlighted in note 21 to the Financial Statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through an 
overdraft facility and a revolving credit facility which are due for renewal in February 2016. 
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, in particular, over:
(a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; 
(b) the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar and the Euro; and 
(c) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s budgets and forecasts, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group 
will be able to operate within the level of its current facility and covenants.
After reviewing the Group’s budget and forecasts for the year to 30 June 2014 and its medium term plans, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. Therefore, they 
have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Independent auditors
The Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be 
reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Richard Cockton
Company Secretary
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 30 30
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 (the “Code”) and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders. A copy of this 
code is publicly available from www.frc.org.uk.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, as set out in the main principles of the Code. The Board 
believes that the Group has been compliant throughout the year ended 30 June 2013.
The Non-Executive Chairman is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, as permitted by the Code, but 
does not chair any of them.
This report, together with the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 35 to 44, sets out how the Company has applied the 
Main Principles of the Code.
Takeover directive disclosures are set out in the Directors’ Report on page 26.
1 The Board
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which, at 30 June 2013, comprised three Executive and four  
Non- Executive Directors. Short biographies of each Director are set out on pages 24 and 25. The Board focuses on formulation 
of strategy, management of effective business controls and review of business performance. It has a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved to it for decision which it reviews periodically. This includes approval of acquisitions and disposals and major 
capital expenditure. The Board also reviews the Register of Risks.
The Board meets as often as necessary to discharge its duties effectively. In the financial year ended 30 June 2013, 12 Board 
meetings were scheduled and the Directors’ attendance record is set out at the end of this Statement.
The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination 
Committee, each of which operates with defined terms of reference. The terms of reference of the three Committees are available 
on the Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk. The Audit Committee met three times during the year, the Remuneration 
Committee met once during the year and the Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
There is an executive committee known as the Executive Management Board that is responsible for the day-to-day management 
of the Company’s business within a framework of delegated responsibilities. It is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the 
Finance Director, the Group Chief Operating Officer and the Deputy Group Finance Director. The Executive Management Board 
develops the Group’s strategy and budget for the Board’s approval, it recommends capital expenditure and investment budgets to 
the Board of Directors, it allocates resources across the Group within plans agreed by the Board of Directors, it plans and delivers 
major programmes, and it reviews the senior talent base and succession plans. The Executive Management Board can approve, up 
to limits which the Board of Directors sets, capital expenditure, disposals of fixed assets, investments and divestments.
The Board has two off site strategy meetings each year at which the Group’s strategic direction, three year plan and significant 
projects are discussed.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the Board has clearly defined their 
responsibilities. The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board, ensuring that each Director, particularly 
the Non-Executive Directors, is able to make an effective contribution and provide constructive comments on the business. The 
Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters, which includes the implementation of Group strategy and policies 
approved by the Board.
Board balance and independence
All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Company’s executive management and free from any business or other 
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment. They each meet the independence criteria 
set out in the Code.
Derek Carter is the Senior Independent Director (“SID”). His role as SID includes:
• being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has  
 failed to resolve; and
• meeting with the other Non-Executive Directors on the Board once a year to assess the Chairman’s performance as Chairman,  
 taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has, or had at any time during the year, any interest in a contract with any Group company.
Corporate Governance Statement Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 31 31
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Company’s affairs, and all Directors, in accordance with the 
Code, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of each individual Director. As part of its 
evaluation, a questionnaire was approved by the Board. Directors submitted their completed questionnaires to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee who reviewed their responses. These were subsequently discussed in an open session. In addition, the Chairman 
has undertaken one to one interviews with each of the Directors following completion of their questionnaires. The exercise, which is 
undertaken on a regular basis, was viewed positively by the Board.
The Chairman has carried out a review of the performance of individual members of the Board. In all cases the performance of the 
Directors was considered to have reached a high standard and appropriate training courses were being undertaken, in particular in 
relation to the Bribery Act.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is composed of all the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman. The members of the Audit Committee 
have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business leadership experience. They have held between them various roles 
in business, financial management and finance function supervision, which constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business and 
financial experience. The Board is satisfied that Terry Garthwaite, who chairs the Committee, has recent and relevant financial 
experience.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the 
Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk.
The Audit Committee assesses the performance of the Auditors annually. The evaluation focusses on: audit scope and planning; 
performance of the lead audit partner and the audit team; audit reporting and communications; added value; and the audit fee. The 
Audit Committee carried out the annual review of the Auditors’ performance by gathering feedback from its members and senior 
management. It considered reports on the audit firms’ own internal quality control procedures and assessments of independence. 
It agreed on a number of areas of progress and identified with the Auditors some further improvements. Having assessed the 
responses, the Audit Committee did not consider it necessary to require the Auditors to re-tender for the audits. The appointment  
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the Group is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment, reappointment and 
removal of the external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for approval in the general meeting. It keeps under review 
the scope and results of the audit and its cost-effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the auditors. The Committee 
keeps the nature and extent of non-audit services under review by regularly reviewing the balance of audit to non-audit fees.  
The Auditors are asked to provide confirmation of independence on an annual basis.
The Committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Company together with all significant judgements made in 
the preparation of the half-yearly and annual financial statements before they are submitted to the Board. It also actively monitors 
the system of internal control. The Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Since the beginning of the year, the Audit Committee has:
• Reviewed the June 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the December 2012 half-yearly report and the trading  
 updates. As part of this review, the Committee received a report from the Auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and  
 Financial Statements and on their review of the half-yearly report;
• Considered the output from the Group wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks;
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial  
 Statements on this matter;
• Reviewed the carrying value of Goodwill resulting in an impairment charge in the year;
• Reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors, agreed the fees to be paid to them for their  
 audit of the June 2013 financial statements and December half-yearly report;
• Reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit services by regularly reviewing the balance of audit to non-audit fees; and
• Considered the audit partner and audit firm rotation.
The Executive Directors and the Auditors may attend Audit Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee. However, the 
Committee has the right to request invitees to withdraw from the meeting to enable discussions to take place in their absence.  
The Finance Director is invited to attend all the Audit Committee meetings and for the year end reviews, and the Deputy Group 
Finance Director is also invited. The Audit Committee also meet with just the Auditors present, at least twice a year. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 32 32
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee and the Board seek to maintain an appropriate balance between the Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Derek Carter as SID and comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
and the Chief Executive. It has full responsibility for reviewing the Board structure and for interviewing and nominating candidates 
to serve on the Board as well as reviewing senior executive development. Suitable candidates, once nominated, meet with the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive. The candidates are then put forward for consideration and appointment by the Board as a 
whole. The Committee has access to external professional advice at the Company’s expense as and when required.
The Nomination Committee reviews, on a continuing basis, the composition of both the Board and the Executive Management 
Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
2 Directors’ Remuneration
Remuneration Committee
Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining individual Executive Directors’ (the “Executives”) and other senior 
management remuneration packages and employment conditions. In determining its policy the Committee has paid regard to the 
principles of good governance contained in the Code. The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board. Its 
terms of reference are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk and 
its performance is evaluated regularly.
Membership
The Committee was chaired throughout the year by Nathalie Schwarz. The other members of the Committee were Terry Garthwaite, 
Mark Asplin (Company Chairman) and Derek Carter. Nathalie Schwarz, Mark Asplin, Terry Garthwaite and Derek Carter are deemed 
to be Independent Non-Executive Directors as per the Code.
Advisers
During the year the Committee took advice from Aon Hewitt Limited (operating through the brand New Bridge Street (“NBS”)), a 
firm of independent remuneration consultants. Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, neither Aon Hewitt Limited nor any 
other part of the Aon Corporation Group has connections with the Company. The Committee has also received assistance from the 
Chief Executive with respect to the remuneration of the other Executive Directors and on the Company’s remuneration policy more 
generally. He takes no part in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Statement of voting at last AGM
The Company remains committed to on-going shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. The following 
table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting on 14 November 2012:
Resolution Votes for % of vote Votes against % of vote Votes withheld
Approve Remuneration Report 62,485,000 99.99% 7,600  0.01% 24,763
3 Relations with Shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by 
means of a programme of meetings with major shareholders, fund managers and analysts each year. The Company also makes 
presentations to analysts and fund managers following publication of its half-year and full-year results. These are regularly attended 
by the Chairman. A copy of the presentation slide show is available on the Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk. As referred 
to earlier, the SID is available to shareholders if they have concerns which other contacts have failed to resolve.
The Chairman or one of the other Non-Executive Directors is available on request to attend meetings with major shareholders and in 
the past year the Chairman has attended such meetings. The Board regularly receives copies of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting is being sent out with this Annual Report and Financial Statements. At the 
Annual General Meeting, after the formal business has been concluded, the Chairman will welcome questions from Shareholders. All 
Directors attend the meeting, at which they have the opportunity to meet with Shareholders. Details of resolutions to be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting on 5 November 2013, and an explanation of the items of special business, can be found in the circular 
that contains the notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
4 Accountability and Audit
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors in connection with the financial statements are explained in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on pages 27 and 28 and the Independent Auditors’ Report set out on pages 45 and 46.
Corporate Governance Statement continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 33 33
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Internal Control
In line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the Board maintains an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks faced by the Group. The Board regularly reviews this process, which has been in operation from the start of the year 
to the date of approval of this Report. The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management, and 
for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems. These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a Data Protection Officer to coordinate the Group’s data protection activities.
In line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control. The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. It is 
based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and 
controlled.
Further details of specific risks such as interest rate risk, liquidity and capital risk, and foreign currency risk, are given in the Financial 
Review on pages 16 and 17.
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated throughout the year under review are as follows:
Financial Reporting
The Board reviewed the Annual Report, together with the annual and half-year results announcements.
The Board considered the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and key judgements. It 
reviewed accounting papers prepared by management on areas of financial reporting judgement. This included a consideration of 
the carrying value of goodwill, and confirmation, based on management’s expectations of future performance, of the amount of the 
goodwill impairment charge required.
The Board considered and is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and that it 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Management Information Systems
Effective planning, budgeting and forecasting systems are in place, as well as a monthly review of actual results compared with budget 
and the prior year. The annual budget, updated three times per year, is reviewed by the Board. Risk assessment and evaluation takes 
place as an integral part of this process. Monthly reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports results to 
Shareholders twice a year.
Each area of the business carries out risk assessments of its operations, and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
Insurance cover for the Group, as well as individual operating companies, has been procured where it is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Board has identified key strategic risks faced by the Group, which have been prioritised and are set out on pages 20 
and 21.
The Group maintains a financial controller’s manual to ensure that consistent and adequate accounting procedures are maintained 
throughout the Group.
Organisation
There are well-structured financial and administrative functions at both the Group and operating company level, staffed by 
appropriately qualified staff. The key functions at Group level include: Group Accounting, Corporate Planning, Group Treasury, HR, 
Company Secretarial and Group Taxation.
Internal Audit
During the year, the Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has concluded that the internal control system 
is appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group and that an internal audit function is still currently unnecessary. Reliance 
instead is placed on well-defined controls operated from the centre.
Use of Auditors for Non-audit Services
The non-audit services provided by the Auditors are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board. All such 
services, where significant, are considered by the Board and a decision taken on each occasion as to whether the particular services 
should or should not be provided by the Auditors. An analysis of audit and non-audit fees payable to the Auditors is shown in note 5 
to the Financial Statements. In particular, the Audit Committee feel that it is cost effective to use the Auditors for UK and overseas tax 
compliance. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 34 34
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Whistle Blowing
The Group has appointed Non-Executive Director, Terry Garthwaite, as a whistle blowing officer to enable employees to raise any 
serious concerns of wrongdoing that they may have in complete confidence. The aim of the whistle blowing policy is to ensure that 
arrangements are in place to allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action. 
Details of the policy have been included in the staff handbook and are available on the Company’s intranet. The whistle blowing officer 
can be contacted at whistleblowing@wilmington.co.uk.
ABC Policy 
The Group is committed to conducting all of its business in an honest and ethical manner. It adopts an unequivocal zero-tolerance 
approach to bribery and corruption in any form, and is committed to acting transparently, professionally, fairly and with integrity in all 
business dealings and relationships, wherever it operates.
The Group will not permit any employee, or anyone acting on its behalf, to give, accept, offer, solicit, or promise a bribe or solicitation 
payment, regardless of the amount involved. This includes any kind of facilitation (or ‘kickback’) payment.
At 31 August 2013, in excess of 700 staff have completed our ABC training course.
The ABC guidelines have been translated into French and Spanish for our overseas subsidiaries.
Board and Committees membership record
The number of full Board meetings and committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year was as follows: 
   Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination
   Board Committee Committee Committee
Board Meeting   meetings meetings meetings meetings
M Asplin (Chairman)   11 (12) 2 (3) 1 (1) – (–)
C J Brady (Chief Executive)   12 (12) – – – (–)
R B Brookes (resigned 14 November 2012)  3 (4) – – –
A Foye (appointed 3 September 2012)  10 (10) – – –
N Smith   11 (12) – – –
T B Garthwaite (Non-Executive)   11 (12) 3 (3) 1 (1) – (–)
D Carter (Non-Executive)   12 (12) 3 (3) 1 (1) – (–)
N Schwarz (Non-Executive)   11 (12) 3 (3) 1 (1) – (–)
Figures in brackets indicate the total number of scheduled meetings during the period in which the Director was a Board or 
Committee member, as appropriate. 
Mark Asplin
Chairman 
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 35 35
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2013, which sets out the remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors of the Group and the amounts earned in respect of the year ended 30 June 2013. The report is subject to an 
advisory shareholder vote and a resolution to approve the Remuneration report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on  
5 November 2013.
New regulations have been introduced under the Large and Medium-sized Company and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2013 which impact the presentation of the Remuneration Report. Whilst we are not required to comply with the new 
regulations until the year ending 30 June 2014 we are mindful of the need for transparency in relation to remuneration reporting and 
therefore we have, as far as practicable, voluntarily incorporated a number of the key principles set out in the new regulations.
Review of 2012/13
As described in the Business review section of this Annual Report, Wilmington has had a successful year with a significant increase 
in Adjusted Profit before Tax. It has made progress as evidenced by the improved financial performance in 2013 and consequently 
an annual bonus to Executive Directors of 80% of salary is due for exceeding the threshold targets set by the Committee for the 
2012/13 financial year. The level of vesting of the PSP awards granted in 2009 did not meet the perscribed criteria and hence 
lapsed.
Outlook for 2013/14
The Committee considers the current policy on Executive remuneration to be appropriate and no significant changes are anticipated 
during this financial year.
Given the continuing cautiousness over the economic outlook and taking into account the awards under discussion with the general 
workforce no increase in annual salary is being awarded to the Executive Directors for the new financial year.
The annual bonus potential for Executive Directors remains unchanged at up to a maximum of 100% of base salary dependent 
on key financial performance indicators. There are clear financial targets based on the achievement of underlying profit, ROE and 
ROS and the Committee is satisfied that these are challenging and, in order for the maximum bonus to be earned, will demonstrate 
significant further improvement in the profit performance of the business.
The Committee will continue to monitor the performance conditions for any future PSP awards to ensure that the conditions 
continue to be appropriate for the Company and the prevailing market and reflect the application of a “pay for performance” 
philosophy in the best interests of the Company and Shareholders.
The Committee will also continue to monitor remuneration policy to ensure it remains aligned to the business strategy and delivery of 
Shareholder value.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 36 36
Unaudited Information
The Committee has an established policy on the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The key principles are as 
follows:
• Remuneration is directly aligned with the performance of the Group and the interests of Shareholders. It is designed to reward, 
motivate, incentivise and retain Executives of the highest calibre, without paying more than is necessary.
• A significant proportion of Executives’ potential remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to annual and long-term 
Group performance targets, which are reviewed annually. Targets are calibrated appropriately so as to ensure that they cannot 
encourage excessive risk.
The table below sets out the Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
Base Salary
Taxable Benefits
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Core element of fixed 
remuneration set at a market 
competitive level with the 
aim to recruit, motivate and 
retain Directors of the calibre 
required.
Fixed element of remuneration 
set at a market competitive 
level.
Operation
Reviewed annually by the 
Committee. 
The review takes into account:
• performance of the Group  
 and pay conditions  
 elsewhere in the workforce;
• performance of the  
 individual;
• changes in position or  
 responsibility; and
• market competitiveness.
The Committee periodically 
takes external advice to 
benchmark salaries by 
reference to Executives with 
similar positions in comparator 
organsiations. In considering 
relevant benchmarking the 
Committee is also aware of 
the risk of an upward pay 
rachet through placing undue 
emphasis on comparative pay 
surveys.
Base salary is the only 
pensionable element of 
remuneration.
Executive Directors receive 
benefits in line with market 
practice and principally include 
a car allowance and cover for 
private medical, permanent 
health and life insurance.
Other benefits may be 
provided based on individual 
circumstances and a response 
to market pressures.
Opportunity
Salary increases will normally 
be in line with the wider Group 
and the Committee considers 
any increase out of line with 
this very carefully.
Higher increases may be 
awarded where there is a 
compelling reason to do so, 
taking into account all relevant 
commercial factors. These 
circumstances may include:
• Increase in scope and 
responsibility;
• A new Director being moved 
to market positioning over a 
period of time;
• A salary falling significantly 
below market positioning; or
• In other circumstances 
where there is a commercial 
need.
Set at a level which the 
Committee considers 
appropriate and provides 
sufficient level of benefit based 
on individual circumstances.
Performance metrics
None, although the individual’s 
contribution and overall 
performance is one of the 
considerations in determining 
the level of any salary increase.
Not applicable. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 37 37
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Annual Bonus
Pension
PSP
Helps recruit and retain 
executives.
Rewards sustained 
contribution and commitment 
to the Group.
Provides market competitive 
post-employment benefits.
Incentivises Executive 
Directors to achieve returns 
for shareholders over a longer 
timeframe.
Operation
Targets are reviewed annually 
and any pay-out is determined 
by the Committee after the 
year-end based on targets set 
for the financial period. 
The bonus plan rules 
contain provisions such that 
appropriate means of redress 
may be sought (i.e. clawback) 
if it transpires that a bonus 
was paid for performance in a 
year which later proves to have 
been materially misstated.
There is no scope to make 
discretionary bonus payments 
outside of the scope of the 
bonus plan.
Executive Directors are eligible 
to participate in the defined 
contribution pension scheme.
The Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”) was approved by 
shareholders in 2007.
Executive Directors may 
receive awards of conditional 
shares. Vesting is dependent 
on the achievement of 
performance conditions 
normally over a three year 
measurement period. 
The Committee will determine 
performance conditions 
prior to each award, with 
performance measured over 
a single period of three years 
with no provision to re-test.
Clawback (malus) applies to 
unvested awards.
Opportunity
Maximum bonus 100% of
base salary.
Under the defined contribution 
arrangements, Executive 
Directors participate in a 
defined contribution scheme 
to which the Company 
contributes an amount 
equivalent of up to 10% of 
salary. 
Executive Directors are entitled 
to elect to sacrifice part of 
their salary and bonus into a 
personal pension scheme.
Maximum award limit under 
the PSP plan will be 150% of 
base salary. 
Performance metrics
Stretching targets are set each 
year reflecting the business 
priorities which underpin 
Group strategy and align to 
key performance indicators.
The annual bonus is determined 
based on performance against 
a mix of targets. For the year 
ended 30 June 2014 these will 
be adjusted profit, return on 
equity (“ROE”) and Return on 
Sale (“ROS”) targets;
• 60% adjusted profit;
• 20% ROE; and
• 20% ROS.
None.
The awards under the PSP 
will be based on a mix of 
key longer term metrics for 
the Group. These will be 
metrics, which the Committee 
considers to be the most 
appropriate measures of 
longer term performance and 
could include TSR, EPS and 
ROE. 
For PSP awards to be made in 
respect of the year ending 30 
June 2014 these will have an 
equal weighting.
The threshold payout level 
under the PSP is 25% of the 
maximum award.
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Rewards the achievement 
of the Group strategy of 
sustainable growth. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 38 38
Explanation of performance metrics chosen
In 2010, the Committee reviewed the performance metrics attached to the PSP and considered that whilst EPS and TSR  
(as defined on page 41) remain appropriate measures of performance, a further performance metric should be incorporated to 
further align the interests of Executives with that of Shareholders and to provide a better overall blend of performance metrics.  
The Committee therefore decided to incorporate ROE for the 2010 awards. ROE was also incorporated for the 2011 and  
2012 awards.
The Committee will continue to grant awards based on EPS, ROE and TSR as the Committee considers these to be the most 
appropriate measures of performance for the following reasons:
• The EPS target will reward significant and sustained increases in earnings that would be expected to flow through into  
 Shareholder value. For the participants, this will also deliver a strong ‘‘line of sight’’ as it will be straightforward to evaluate and  
 communicate.
• The ROE performance condition will reward executives for delivery of returns to Shareholders but adding a further discipline of  
 ensuring the most efficient use of Shareholders’ funds. The profit element of ROE will be based on adjusted profit after  
 impairment.
• The TSR performance condition will provide a balance to the financial performance conditions by rewarding relative share price  
 performance against the companies comprising the FTSE Small Cap Index and ensure that a share price-based discipline in  
 the package (in the absence of options) is retained. This will ensure that management can be rewarded for delivering superior  
 stock market returns.
The Committee considers that this blend of measures provides a link to the Company’s strategy, which is to create a sustained 
improvement in underlying performance and maximise returns to Shareholders.
The Committee considered carefully the EPS and ROE ranges to be attached to awards in 2013, taking into account future growth 
expectations, analysts’ forecasts and the requirement to set stretching but achievable targets. In this regard, the Committee believes 
it has struck the appropriate balance.
Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy
The charts below show the balance between fixed pay (salary pension and benefits) and variable pay (annual bonuses and  
long-term incentives) at a target level of performance (based on half the maximum bonus being payable and valuing an LTIP award 
at 50% of the value for the shares as at the date of grant) and also at a maximum level of performance (maximum bonus being 
payable and valuing an LTIP award at 100% of the value of the shares as at the date of grant). The charts demonstrate that a 
significant proportion of the package is weighted towards variable performance-related pay, with this proportion increasing at a 
higher level of performance.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
Chief Executive and 
Executive Directors
 
Fixed pay
Short-term variable pay
Long-term variable pay
Chief Executive and 
Executive Directors
 
Fixed pay
Short-term variable pay
Long-term variable pay
Target Maximum Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 39 39
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Non-Executive Directors 
Directors’ Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office 
The Company has adopted the following policy on Executives’ service contracts: 
• 12 months’ notice period or less shall apply. 
• Termination payments are limited to payment of 12 months’ salary and benefits. 
• Annual bonus payments will be reviewed on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or  
 in part will be dependent upon a number of factors including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the  
 business during the bonus period in question.
• Any payment under the PSP will be determined in line with the leaver provisions contained in the share plan rules.
 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the notice periods referred to below, with no compensation payable for 
cessation of appointment.
 Date of service contract/ Notice
Name letter of appointment period
M Asplin 6 April 2005 6 months
T B Garthwaite 15 June 2005 3 months
D Carter 1 December 2011 3 months
N Schwarz 1 December 2011 3 months
The service contracts of the Executives provide that if an Executive Director ceases to be a Director of the Company by virtue 
of removal from, failure to be re-elected to or retirement without submission to be re-elected from, such office pursuant to the 
Company’s Articles of Association, the Company may terminate his employment immediately by making a payment equivalent to the 
basic salary and the value of non-monetary benefits payable during the notice period under his service contract, without mitigation. 
There is no provision to pay an amount in lieu of bonus which could have been earned over the notice period. 
Non-Executive Director Fees
Operation
Fees are reviewed periodically 
and amended to reflect any 
change in responsibilities and 
time commitments. Where 
appropriate external advice 
is taken on setting market 
competitive fees. 
The Non-executive Directors 
do not participate in any of 
the Group’s share incentive 
plans nor do they receive 
any benefits or pension 
contributions.
Opportunity
Fees are based on the 
time commitment and 
responsibilities of the role.
Fees are subject to an 
overall cap as set out in 
the Company’s Articles of 
Association.
Performance metrics
Not applicable.
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Sole element of Non-Executive 
Director remuneration set at 
a level that reflects market 
conditions and is sufficient 
to attract individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and 
experience. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 40 40
Audited Information
Annual Report on Remuneration
Base Salary and Fees
Base salaries for individual Directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and are set with reference to individual 
performance, experience and responsibilities within the Group as well as with reference to similar roles in comparable companies. 
For 2013/14, base salaries for Executive Directors will be frozen, compared to salary increases in the general workforce of up to 2% 
(other than for promotions). The annualised base salaries for 2012/13 and 2011/12 are as set out below:
 Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June 
 2013 2012 
 £ £ Increase, %
C J Brady 340,394 333,720 2%
A Foye 251,809 – N/A
N Smith 260,100 255,000 2%
The remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by the Board and is reviewed 
periodically. The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s share incentive plans nor do they receive any 
benefits or pension contributions.
  Year ended 30 June Year ended 30 June 
  2013 2012 
  £ £
Chairman  77,500 65,650
Senior Independent Director  40,000 40,000
Other Non-Executive Directors  40,000 40,000
Annual bonus
For the year ended 30 June 2013
Annual bonus payments were based on the Company’s performance against targets based on linear ranges of adjusted profit, ROE 
and ROS, set at the start of the year. In relation to the bonuses payable, these were based on the following level of achievement 
against each of the three metrics:
• 60% adjusted profit;
• 20% ROE; and
• 20% ROS.
• Linear scales for each metric were set at the start of the financial year.
• Adjusted profit is profit before non-recurring items, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of publishing rights, title and benefits,  
 unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests, unwinding of the discount  
 on deferred consideration, provision for the Executives’ bonuses, share based payments and after deducting the interest of  
 non-controlling shareholders in such profits.
• The profit element of ROE is based on adjusted operating profit after impairment.
 
The directors consider that adjusted profit, ROE and ROS targets are matters which are commercially sensitive and should therefore 
remain confidential to the Company. They provide our competitors with insight into our business plans and expectations. 
The following table sets out the bonus pay-out to the Executive Directors for 2012/13 and how this reflects underlying profit, ROE 
and ROS performance for the year:
   Executive Director 
   bonus as a 
Adjusted profit  ROE ROS percentage of salary
100% Nil 100% 80%
The mechanics of the scheme therefore resulted in bonuses of £272,747, £153,563, and £208,080 being due to Charles Brady, 
Tony Foye and Neil Smith respectively. 
For the year ending 30 June 2014
The Committee has agreed that the targets/metrics for 2013/14 remain unchanged.
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 41 41
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
PSP
Awards vesting during the year
The PSP awards granted on 18 September 2009 were subject to normalised Earnings per Share (‘’EPS’’) growth in excess of RPI 
and relative Total Shareholder Return (‘’TSR’’) performance against the FTSE SmallCap over a three year period. The performance 
conditions for these awards were as shown in the table below:
50% of award - Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 5% per annum 0%
5% per annum 25%
Between 5% per annum and 12% per annum On a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
12% per annum or more 100%
50% of award - TSR versus FTSE SmallCap Percentage of Award Vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
The table below details the Company’s performance against these objectives for the three year peformance period:
   Resulting pay out as % of  
Element Target Range Performance out-turn maximum
EPS Growth RPI+5% to RPI+12% <RPI+5% 0%
TSR Median (50%) to upper quartile (75%) Below median 0%
Total   0%
The level of vesting of the PSP awards granted on 18 September 2009 did not meet the perscribed criteria above and hence 
lapsed.
Awards granted during the year
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2013 the following PSP awards were granted on 17 October 2012 (the share price on the date 
of grant was £1.34):
 Type of  Maximum Number Face value % of award vesting Performance
 award opportunity of shares at grant, £ at threshold period
C J Brady PSP 122,400 122,400 £164,016 25% The three financial 
A Foye PSP 183,111 183,111 £245,369 25% years from
N Smith PSP 93,528 93,528 £125,328 25% 2012/13 
      to 2015/16
A summary of the performance conditions for these awards is set out in the table below:
One-third of award - Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 3% per annum 0%
3% per annum 25%
Between 3% per annum and 9% per annum On a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
9% per annum or more 100%
One-third of award - ROE Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 25% 0%
25% 25%
Between 25% and 29% On a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
29% or above 100%
One-third of award - TSR versus FTSE SmallCap Percentage of Award Vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
The Committee determined that all participants (including Executives) will be required to hold no less than 50% of any vested shares 
(net of taxes) for a minimum of two years. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 42 42
PSP continued
For the year ending 30 June 2014
It is intended that awards in 2013/14 will be made on a similar basis to the 2012/13 awards. The maximum award to all Executive 
Directors will be 100% of base salary.
Directors’ pensions
Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution scheme to which the Company contributes an amount equivalent to 10%  
of salary. 
Payments to past directors
R B Brookes resigned from the Board on 14 November 2012 and retired from the Company on 31 December 2012.
Following his resignation, R B Brookes received a bonus of £30,000 for the successful completion of certain projects that he was 
set at the time of his resignation. He also received £75,000 under a separate consultancy agreement.
Dilution
Under the rules of the PSP , awards under the Company’s discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by a new issue of shares 
must not exceed 5% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period and the total of all awards satisfied via new 
issue shares under all plans (both discretionary and all-employee) must not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in 
any rolling 10-year period.
As at 30 June 2013, the headroom under the Company’s 5% and 10% limits was 1,546,539 and 4,610,896 shares respectively,  
out of an issued share capital of 86,103,137 shares.
Performance Graph and table
The following graph shows, for the year ended 30 June 2013 and for each of the previous four years, the total shareholder return 
(calculated in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002) on a holding of the Company’s ordinary 
shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to which the  
FTSE All – Share Media Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index are calculated. These indices have been chosen as the appropriate 
comparators because it is these indices within which the Company’s shares are quoted.
Total shareholder return (“TSR”)
Source: Thomson Reuters
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
 
1000
900
800
700
Share Price (p)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
600
500
400
Wilmington Group plc          FTSE All-Share Media Index             FTSE Small Cap Index
300 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 43 43
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Directors’ Emoluments
The table below reports the total remuneration receivable in respect of qualifying services by each Director during the year:
   Pension Allowances and 
 Salary and fees Bonus Contributions benefits in kind Total
 Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year
 ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended ended
 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
C J Brady 348,904 333,720 272,747 184,054 25,529 33,372 28,224 28,565 675,404 579,711
R B Brookes  
(resigned 
14 Nov 2012) 115,735 226,930 – 97,129 11,574 22,693 14,989 28,095 142,298 374,847
A Foye  
(appointed
3 Sep 2012) 209,841 – 153,563 – – – 21,234 – 384,638 –
N Smith  
(appointed
1 Dec 2011) 266,603 148,750 208,080 109,143 19,507 14,875 22,572 13,739 516,762 286,507
D L Summers  
(Retired 
31 Dec 2011) – 37,000 – – – – – – – 37,000
M Asplin 77,500 65,650 – – – – – – 77,500 65,650
T B Garthwaite 40,000 38,900 – – – – – – 40,000 38,900
D Carter  
(appointed 
1 Dec 2011) 40,000 23,333 – – – – – – 40,000 23,333
N Schwarz  
(appointed  
1 Dec 2011) 40,000 23,333 – – – – – – 40,000 23,333
 1,138,583 897,616 634,390 390,326 56,610 70,940 87,019 70,399 1,916,602 1,429,281
During the year no elections were made to sacrifice salaries and bonuses disclosed in the table above in favour of pension 
contributions: (R B Brookes 2012: £25,000).
PSP awards held by Directors
Details of the awards held by Executive Directors are shown below:
 
  At 1 July Awards Awards Awards At 30 June 
  2012 granted vested lapsed 2013 
 Date of  (or date of during during during (or date of Date which 
Name grant  appointment) the year the year the year appointment) awards vest
C J Brady 18 September 2009 194,868 – – (194,868) – 18 September 2012
 20 October 2010 202,374 – – – 202,374 20 October 2013
 19 October 2011 112,301 – – – 112,301 19 October 2014 
 17 October 2012 – 122,400 – – 122,400 17 October 2015
A Foye 17 October 2012 – 183,111 – – 183,111 17 October 2015
R B Brookes 18 September 2009 132,510 – – (132,510) – 18 September 2012
(resigned 20 October 2010 137,614 – – (34,404) 103,210 20 October 2013 
14 Nov 2012)
N Smith 18 September 2009 64,090 – – (64,090) – 18 September 2012
 20 October 2010 71,830 – – – 71,830 20 October 2013
 19 October 2011 71,509 – – – 71,509 19 October 2014 
 17 October 2012 – 93,528 – – 93,528 17 October 2015
  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 44 44
Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued
PSP awards held by Directors continued
Further details of these awards are set out in note 26 to the Financial Statements.
The market price of Wilmington shares at the date of the 2008 award was 152p, for the 2009 award 127p, for the 2010 award 166p, 
for the 2011 award 87.5p and for the 2012 award 134p. The fair value of the TSR part for Directors of the 2012 award is £33,597 
(calculated in line with relevant accounting standards). 
As at 30 June 2013 the Company’s share price was 165p and its highest and lowest share prices during the year ended 30 June 2013 
were 165p and 82p respectively.
  At 1 July
  2012
  (or date of Movement At 30 June At 30 June
 Beneficial/ appointment) in year 2013 2013
Name Non-Beneficial Number Number Number Percentage
C J Brady Beneficial 3,412,151 – 3,412,151 3.96
A Foye Beneficial 50,000 385,000 435,000 0.05
N E Smith  Beneficial 359,609 20,000 379,609 0.05
M Asplin Beneficial 41,390 – 41,390 0.01
T B Garthwaite Beneficial 5,000 – 5,000 0.01
D Carter  Beneficial 10,000 – 10,000 0.01
N Schwarz  Beneficial – – – 0.00
Interests at 30 June 2013 are shown as a percentage of shares in issue on that date. 
There have been no other changes in the Directors’ interests between 30 June 2013 and 12 September 2013. No Director had a 
material interest in any contract of any significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year other than a service 
contract or, in the case of the Non-Executive Directors, a letter of appointment.
Shareholding guidelines for Executives have been adopted, linked to the outturn from the PSP . At the time Awards vest under the 
PSP (or any other executive plan established in the future), Executives will be expected to retain no fewer than 50% of vested shares 
(net of taxes) until such time as a total personal shareholding equivalent to 100% of pre-tax base salary has been achieved.
This requirement will not be made of participants to the scheme other than the Executives.
It should be noted that currently all Executives hold shares worth significantly more than the shareholding guideline level.
On behalf of the Board 
Nathalie Schwarz 
Chairman of The Remuneration Committee 
18 September 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 45 45
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Wilmington Group plc 
We have audited the Financial Statements of Wilmington Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2013, which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance 
Sheets, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the 
related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company Financial Statements,  
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 27 and 28, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the Audited Financial Statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2013 
and of the Group’s profit and Group’s and Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted in the European Union; 
• the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted in the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Financial Statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 33 and 34 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Independent Auditors’ Report Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 46
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern;
• the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
18 September 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 47
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
   Notes  £’000 £’000
Revenue   3 85,048 85,326
Cost of sales    (26,064) (25,824)
Gross profit    58,984 59,502
 
Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets and non-recurring items 4 (42,252) (43,494)
Amortisation of intangible assets   4 (6,860) (6,046)
Operating expenses before non-recurring items    (49,112) (49,540)
Net gain on disposal of property   5 3,325 –
Impairment of goodwill   5 (4,500) –
Other non-recurring items   5 (1,325) (924)
 
Total net operating expenses    (51,612) (50,464)
Operating profit     7,372 9,038
Finance income   6 4 2
Finance costs   6 (2,260) (2,712)
Profit before tax    5,116 6,328
Taxation   7 (1,484) (1,274)
Profit for the financial year    3,632 5,054
Attributable to: 
Owners of the parent    3,537 4,884
Non-controlling interests    95 170
    3,632 5,054
Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent during the year:
Basic earnings per share   10 4.17p 5.81p
Diluted earnings per share   10 4.07p 5.63p
The notes on pages 53 to 90 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 48
     Year ended Year ended
    30 June 2013 30 June 2012
     £’000 £’000
Profit for the year    3,632 5,054
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations    51 13
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps     286 (926)
Fair value movements on net investment hedge    21 –
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense)    (80) 212
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax   278 (701)
Total comprehensive income for the year    3,910 4,353
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
– Owners of the Parent    3,815 4,172
– Non-controlling interests    95 181
    3,910 4,353
The notes on pages 53 to 90 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 49
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
   Group  Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 73,282 74,593 – –
Intangible assets 14 31,493 31,522 62 89
Property, plant and equipment 15 5,909 6,772 1,092 1,242
Investments in subsidiaries 16 – – 48,591 41,909
Deferred tax asset 24 887 639 507 382
Trade and other receivables 18 – – 70,169 71,844
  111,571 113,526 120,421 115,466
Current assets
Inventories 17 54 59 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 21,325 20,110 88 426
Cash and cash equivalents  7,803 3,954 47 1
  29,182 24,123 135 427
Non-current assets held for sale 15 657 888 – –
Total assets  141,410 138,537 120,556 115,893
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (39,254) (35,552) (3,199) (2,147)
Current tax liabilities  (1,533) (1,122) – –
Deferred consideration  (224) (160) (81) –
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (63) (26) (63) (6)
Bank overdrafts 21 (890) (2,159) (8,530) (9,227)
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests 22 – (1,808) – –
  (41,964) (40,827) (11,873) (11,380)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 21 (39,751) (37,218) (19,751) (37,218)
Deferred consideration – equity settled  (619) –  (619) –
Deferred consideration – cash settled  (261) (767) – –
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (1,096) (1,446) (1,096) (1,446)
Deferred tax liability 24 (5,822) (6,518) – –
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests 22 (183) (165) – –
  (47,732) (46,114) (21,466) (38,664)
Total liabilities  (89,696) (86,941) (33,339) (50,044)
Net assets  51,714 51,596 87,217 65,849
Equity
Share capital 25 4,305 4,305 4,305 4,305
Share premium 25 45,231 45,231 45,231 45,231
Treasury shares 25 (2,356) (4,008) (2,356) (4,008)
Translation reserve  59 93 – – 
Share based payments reserve  1,560 815 1,560 815
Retained earnings  2,770 5,160 38,477 19,506
Equity attributable to Owners of the Parent  51,569 51,596 87,217 65,849
Non-controlling interests 27 145 –  – – 
Total equity  51,714 51,596 87,217 65,849
The notes on pages 53 to 90 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. They were approved and authorised for issue by  
the Board and signed on their behalf on 18 September 2013.
A Foye 
Chief Finance Officer
Registered number: 3015847
Balance Sheets 
as at 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 50
      Non-
 Share  Share    controlling
 capital  option Translation Retained  interests Total
 (note 25) reserve reserve earnings Total (note 27) equity
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group
At 1 July 2011  45,771 820 91 6,164 52,846 50 52,896
Profit for the year  – – – 4,884 4,884 170 5,054
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – 2 – 2 11 13
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps – – – (926) (926) – (926)
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – 212 212 – 212
 45,771 820 93 10,334 57,018 231 57,249
Dividends to shareholders – – – (5,891) (5,891) (10) (5,901)
Share-based payments – (5) – 474 469 – 469
Issue of share capital 1,503 – – – 1,503 – 1,503
Obligation to issue shares (1,746)   243 (1,503)  (1,503)
Movements in non-controlling interests – – – – – (50) (50) 
Movements in offset of provisions for the future  
purchase of non-controlling interests – – – – – (171) (171)
At 1 July 2012 45,528 815 93 5,160 51,596 – 51,596
Profit for the year  – – – 3,537 3,537 95 3,632
Exchange differences on translation  
of foreign operations – – 51 – 51 – 51
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps – – – 286 286 – 286
Fair value movements on net investment hedge – – – 21 21 – 21 
Tax on other comprehensive income – – – (80) (80) – (80)
 45,528 815 144 8,924 55,411 95 55,506
Dividends to shareholders – – – (5,947) (5,947) (27) (5,974)
Share-based payments – 745 – 322 1,067 – 1,067
Translation reserve realised on disposal of  
overseas subsidiary – – (85) 85 – – –
Reissue of treasury shares 1,652 – – (614) 1,038 – 1,038
Movements in non-controlling interests – – – – – 80 80
Movement in offset of provisions for the  
future purchase of non-controlling interests – – – – – (3) (3)
At 30 June 2013 47,180 1,560 59 2,770 51,569 145 51,714
Statements of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 51
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
    Share  Share
    capital option Retained
    (note 25)  reserve earnings Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Company
At 1 July 2011    45,771 820 21,760 68,351
Profit for the year     – – 3,782 3,782
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps    – – (926) (926)
Tax on fair value movements on interest rate swaps    – – 212 212
    45,771 820 24,828 71,419
Dividends to shareholders    – – (5,891) (5,891)
Issue of share capital    1,503 – – 1,503
Obligation to issue shares    (1,746) – 243 (1,503)
At 1 July 2012    45,528 815 19,506 65,849
Profit for the year     – – 25,227 25,227
Fair value movements on interest rate swaps    – – 286 286
Tax on fair value movements on interest rate swaps    – – (75) (75)
    45,528 815 44,944 91,287
Dividends to shareholders    – – (5,947) (5,947)
Share-based payments    – 745 94 839
Reissue of treasury shares    1,652 – (614) 1,038
At 30 June 2013    47,180 1,560 38,477 87,217
The notes on pages 53 to 90 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 52
   Group  Company
  Year ended  Year ended Year ended Year ended
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 
  2013 2012 2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before non-recurring items 31 19,385 17,414 33,453 9,786
Net finance costs paid  (2,011) (2,347) (1,913) (2,412)
Tax paid  (2,926) (3,080) (2,078) (2,115)
Net cash inflow from operating activities  14,448 11,987 29,462 5,259
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of businesses 12 (1,151) (465) – –
Deferred consideration paid  (171) – – –
Purchase of subsidiaries 12 (5,523) – (5,523) –
Cash acquired on purchase of businesses 12 – 190 – –
Cash acquired on purchase of subsidiaries 12 547 – – –
Purchase of non-controlling interests 22 (1,707) – – –
Cash received from non-controlling interest 27 80 – – –
Net proceeds from disposal of businesses and subsidiaries  – 937 – –
Non-recurring costs  (1,224) (1,062) (545) –
Purchase of of property, plant and equipment 15 (1,217) (952) – (5)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment  4,450 55 – 19
Purchase of intangible assets  14 (764) (1,077) (28) (52)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets  – 39 – –
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (6,680) (2,335) (6,096) (38)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 9 (5,947) (5,891) (5,947) (5,891)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (27) (10) – –
Reissue of treasury shares 25 1,038 – 1,038 –
Increase/(decrease) in long-term loans 21 2,286 (2,000) (17,714) (2,000)
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (2,650) (7,901) (22,623) (7,891)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash  
equivalents net of bank overdrafts  5,118 1,751 743 (2,670)
Cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts  
at beginning of the year  1,795 44 (9,226) (6,556)
Cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts  
at end of the year  6,913 1,795 (8,483) (9,226)
Reconciliation of net debt
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  3,954 2,321 1 1
Bank overdrafts at beginning of the year  (2,159) (2,277) (9,227) (6,557)
Bank loans at beginning of the year  (38,000) (40,000) (38,000) (40,000)
Net debt at beginning of the year  (36,205) (39,956) (47,226) (46,556)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  
net of bank overdrafts  5,118 1,751 743 (2,670)
(Increase)/decrease in long-term loans  (2,286) 2,000 17,714 2,000
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  7,803 3,954 47 1
Bank overdrafts at end of the year 21 (890) (2,159) (8,530) (9,227)
Bank loans at end of the year 21 (40,286) (38,000) (20,286) (38,000)
Net debt at end of the year  (33,373) (36,205) (28,769) (47,226)
The notes on pages 53 to 90 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
 
Cash Flow Statements
for the year ended 30 June 2013 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 53
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
General Information
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. The address of its registered office is 
6-14 Underwood Street, London, N1 7JQ.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
1. Statement of Accounting Policies
The significant accounting policies applied in preparing the Financial Statements are as follows. These policies have been 
consistently applied for all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
a) Basis of preparation
The Consolidated and Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”), including International Accounting Standards (“IAS”) and interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) and its committees, and as adopted in the EU, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, except for certain financial 
instruments that have been measured at fair value. The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, the functional 
currency of Wilmington Group plc, the Parent Company. All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000s) except 
where otherwise indicated. 
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. The current economic conditions continue 
to create uncertainty, particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products, and (b) the availability of bank finance for the 
foreseeable future. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities. After making enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The 
Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information 
on the Group’s borrowings is given in note 21.
b) Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
amounts reported for income and expenses during the year, and that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities at the 
reporting date.
Business combinations
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in assessing the fair value of the net assets acquired on a business 
combination, in identifying and measuring intangible assets arising on a business combination, and in determining the fair value 
of the consideration. If the consideration includes an element of contingent consideration, the final amount of which is dependent 
on the future performance of the business, management assess the fair value of that contingent consideration based on their 
reasonable expectations of future performance. The sensitivity of the carrying amounts to the judgements, estimates and 
assumptions will vary depending on the nature and size of the acquisition, an indication of which is provided by note 12.
Goodwill
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in measuring the carrying amount of goodwill. In considering 
whether goodwill has been impaired, the recoverable amount of cash generating units has been determined based on value in use 
calculations. These calculations require management to estimate future cash flows, a long-term growth rate and a discount rate. 
The sensitivity of the carrying amount of goodwill to these variables is considered in note 13.
Share-based payments
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in calculating share-based payment costs. Vesting conditions, other 
than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the grant date fair value, so are instead taken into account 
each period in revising the estimate of the number of shares expected to vest and thus in determining the charge to the Income 
Statement for the period. The share-based payment charge can also be significantly impacted by share awards that do not vest. 
The sensitivity of the charge to the judgements, estimates and assumptions made is best ascertained by understanding the nature 
of the share-based payment arrangements concerned, which is set out in note 26.
Current and deferred income tax
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in assessing the current income tax due on its profits and in 
determining the amount of deferred income tax to be recognised. The Company and its subsidiaries engage in discussions with 
relevant authorities concerning tax computations and are subject to routine tax audits, the outcome of which cannot be determined 
with certainty and can take a number of years to resolve. Management therefore estimates tax based on professional advice and 
current discussions with the authorities. A sensitivity analysis in relation to the judgements, estimates and assumptions made is not 
practical, but notes 7 and 24 provide relevant information.
Notes to the Financial Statements Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 54
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
c) Basis of consolidation 
The Consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries. A subsidiary is an 
entity that is controlled by another entity, the parent; control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities, and is generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. 
Any interest in a subsidiary that not attributable to the parent, termed a non-controlling interest, is presented in equity, separately 
from the equity of the owners of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control. 
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned with the policies adopted by the Group. All intra-group 
transactions, including any gains, losses, balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
When the Group ceases to have control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between: (i) 
the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest, and (ii) the previous carrying 
amount of the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary and of any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that subsidiary are reclassified to profit or loss. The results of subsidiaries 
sold or businesses discontinued during the year are shown as discontinued operations in the Income Statement in accordance with 
IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’.
d) Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is applied in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The acquiree’s identifiable assets 
and liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and 
measured at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the fair values of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition. The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of the 
fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the 
acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
e) Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is assessed and its carrying amount is reduced to that amount if lower, and any impairment losses are 
recognised in the Income Statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and of the fair value less costs to sell, 
where the value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases due to a change in the estimates used to determine the 
asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed 
to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of 
amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. The reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised in the Income Statement.
Goodwill is not amortised, but it is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (“CGUs”) 
for the purpose of impairment testing, so that the value in use is determined by reference to the cash flows of the CGU. The cash 
flows considered are the expected pre-tax cash flows of the CGU, for projections over a three year period extrapolated using 
estimated long-term growth rates. The recoverable amount the CGU, as for an asset, is the higher of the value in use and the fair 
value less costs to sell. If a CGU is impaired, the impairment losses are allocated firstly against goodwill, and then on a pro-rata 
basis against intangible and other assets. An impairment of goodwill cannot be reversed.
f) Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in 
Sterling, which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the 
transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the Income Statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange for the year (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses 
are translated at the dates of the transactions). Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a 
separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation 
difference in the translation reserve that is associated with the undertaking is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal 
recognised in the Income Statement.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 55
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
f) Foreign currencies continued
Further information is provided in the financial instruments accounting policy in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies 
that are designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
g) Revenue 
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services, net of discounts 
and sales taxes. Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to 
the Group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured reliably. Subscription revenue is allocated to the 
relevant accounting periods covered by the subscription on a straight line basis or weighted in accordance with the timing of the 
service provided, event revenue is recognised in the month that the event takes place, hard copy advertising revenue is recognised 
on publication, and online directory advertising revenue is recognised over the period that the advertisement remains online. 
Subscriptions and fees in advance are carried forward in trade and other payables as ‘subscriptions and deferred revenue’ and are 
recognised over the period the service is provided. 
Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has despatched the goods to the customer, the customer has accepted the goods, 
and collectability of the related receivables is reasonably assured. 
h) Segmental reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Company’s Board of Directors 
( “The Board’’) which is considered as the Group’s chief operating decision maker and is responsible for allocating resources 
and assessing performance of the operating segments. The Board considers the business from both a geographic and product 
perspective. Geographically, management considers the performance of the Group between the UK, Europe, the North Americas 
and other overseas.
i) Non-recurring items 
The Group’s Income Statement separately identifies non-recurring items. Non-recurring items are those that in management’s 
judgement are one-off in nature and need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence. In determining whether 
an item or transaction is non-recurring, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or 
predictability of occurrence. This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to 
the Board. Non-recurring items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Non-recurring items include gains arising on the disposal of property and asset impairment charges.
 
j) Current and deferred income tax 
Current and deferred income tax is recognised as income or an expense and included in profit or loss for the period, except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date in the countries where the Company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluate 
positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted 
for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and law) that 
have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income 
tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net 
basis.
k) Dividends 
Dividend distributions are recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements when the shareholders right to receive payment is 
established. Final dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders, whilst interim 
dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which they are declared and paid. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 56
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
l) Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation. 
Publishing rights, titles and benefits are classified as intangible assets. They are initially recorded at cost and are amortised through 
the Income Statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding 20 years. 
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is classified as property, plant and equipment. All other computer 
software and also the cost of internally developed software and databases are classified as intangible assets. Computer software 
licences purchased from third parties are initially recorded at cost. Costs associated with the production of internally developed 
software are capitalised once it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits. Computer software intangible assets 
(including the cost of internally developed software and databases) are amortised through the Income Statement on a straight line 
basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years. 
m) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of 
the asset plus any costs of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is not provided on freehold 
land. On other assets it is provided at the following annual rates, on a straight-line basis, in order to write down each asset to its 
residual value over its estimated useful life. 
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Freehold property 2 per cent per annum
Long and short leasehold property Over the term of the lease to a maximum of 50 years
Leasehold improvements 10 per cent per annum or over the term of the lease if less than 10 years
Fixtures and fittings 10-20 per cent per annum
Computer equipment 25-33 per cent per annum
Motor vehicles 25 per cent per annum
Leasehold improvements are included in long or short leasehold property as appropriate.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered  
principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and  
fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
Income Statement.
n) Investments 
Fixed asset investments, which all relate to investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value. 
o) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes materials, direct labour and overheads appropriate 
to the relevant stage of production. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less all the further costs to completion 
and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs. 
p) Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as ‘loans and receivables’ for the purposes of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. Management determines the classification at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at 
each reporting date.
Loans and receivables:
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. They are subsequently carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the Income Statement.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 57
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
p) Financial instruments continued
Loans and receivables are classified as current assets if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are otherwise 
classified as non-current assets.
The Group’s “loans and receivables” comprise “trade and other receivables” and “cash and cash equivalents”, for which further 
information is provided below.
Trade and other receivables:
Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. 
They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant), less 
provisions made for doubtful receivables. Provisions are made specifically, where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment taking 
into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
If collection is expected in 12 months or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the particular business if longer), the trade or other 
receivable is classified as a current asset. It is otherwise classified as a non-current asset.
Cash and cash equivalents:
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions, and other short-term highly 
liquid investments which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have original maturities of three months or less. 
Cash and cash equivalents are offset against bank overdrafts and the net amount is reported in the Balance Sheet when there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts. Bank overdrafts are otherwise shown within current liabilities on the 
Balance Sheet.
Impairment of financial assets:
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Where there is 
objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on an asset carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced and 
the impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement. The impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying 
amount of the financial asset does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised 
at the date the impairment is reversed. The reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables:
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. They are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant).
If due within 12 months or less, the trade or other payable is classified as a current liability. It is otherwise classified as a non-current 
liability.
Loans and other borrowings:
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the amounts received net of transaction costs. They are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the income 
statement.
Further information is provided below in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are designated as a hedge of a 
net investment in a foreign operation.
Loans and other borrowings are classified as current liabilities if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are 
otherwise classified as non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, and it also has 
loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that correspond to investments in foreign operations.
Financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting:
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes. However, derivative financial 
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting (e.g. certain forward currency contracts held by the Group) are classified as 
‘held for trading’ for the purposes of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, so are initially recognised and 
subsequently measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the Income Statement. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 58
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
Financial instruments that do qualify for hedge accounting:
To qualify for hedge accounting, a financial instrument must be designated as a hedging instrument at inception, hedge 
documentation must be prepared and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective. The effectiveness of the hedge is then 
tested at each reporting date, both prospectively and retrospectively, and hedge accounting may be continued only if the hedge 
remains highly effective. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting, or if the Group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
A financial instrument designated for hedge accounting is initially recognised at fair value. For cash flow hedges (e.g. interest rate 
swaps), the gains or losses on re-measurement to fair value that correspond to the effective part of the hedge are recognised 
directly in equity; those that correspond to the ineffective part, if any, are recognised in the Income Statement. For net investment 
hedges (loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation), the 
translation differences that correspond to the effective part of the hedge are recognised directly in equity; those that correspond to 
the ineffective part, if any, are recognised in the Income Statement. When hedge accounting is discontinued, the cumulative gain or 
loss in equity is transferred to the Income Statement. 
q) Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests 
On the acquisition of less than 100% of certain subsidiary undertakings, the Group may enter into put and call options with the 
holders of the shares not owned by the Group, to purchase their interests at a later date. 
These written put options are gross-settled (i.e. the entity pays cash in return for the counterparty delivering shares), and hence are 
recognised as a financial liability at the discounted value of the amount payable. The liability recognised may be subject to a cap 
based on the individual agreements with the counterparties. 
As the price under the option is calculated using a formula based on the average audited profits for the previous two years at the 
time of exercise, the financial liability is re-measured at the year end based on the latest forecasts of profitability (consistent with 
those used in the impairment test on goodwill and discounted at a rate of 10% (2011: 10%) to reflect the time value of money) 
and assuming the put options are exercised at the first available opportunity. The unwinding of the discount on these provisions 
is reflected as a finance charge in the Income Statement over the discounting period. Any remaining change in value for legacy 
transactions is reflected in goodwill. 
Where the put option is ultimately exercised, the amount recognised as the financial liability at that date will be extinguished by  
the payment of the exercise price. Where the put option expires unexercised, the liability is reversed. 
r) Retirement benefits 
The Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme. 
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for a number of employees. Contributions to these arrangements 
are charged in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred. The Group has no further payment obligation once 
the contributions have been paid.
s) Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options and awards) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the options and awards is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the options and awards granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and 
performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a 
specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options and awards that 
are expected to vest. The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the 
specified existing conditions are to be satisfied. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options 
and awards that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the share option reserve within equity. 
The grant by the Company of options and awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiaries in the Group is 
treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is 
recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to equity in 
the parent entity Financial Statements.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options and awards is considered an integral part 
of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 59
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
t) Operating leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. 
Rentals incurred in respect of operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the Income Statement 
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
u) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (“Treasury Shares”), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 
until the shares are cancelled or reissued. 
v) New standards and interpretations applied 
The following new amendment to standards and interpretations, which does not have a material impact, is mandatory for the first 
time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012: 
• Amendment to IAS 1, “Presentation of Financial Statements” on Other Comprehensive Income effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2012. These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with this amendment.
w) New standards and interpretations not applied 
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective (or not effective 
in the EU) for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012 and have not been early adopted: 
• IFRS 9, “Financial instruments – classification and measurement of financial assets”, which has not yet been endorsed for 
adoption in the EU. 
• IFRS 10, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements”, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities”, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IAS 19 (revised 2011) “Employee benefits’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IAS 27 (revised 2011) “Separate Financial Statements’ ’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• IAS 28 (revised 2011) “Associates and joint ventures’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
• Amendment to IFRS 1, “First time adoption on government grants’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013. 
• Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2013. 
• Amendment to IAS 12 “Income taxes” on deferred tax, which is effective in the EU for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2013.
• “Annual improvements 2011’’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
 
Management will assess the impact on the Group of these standards prior to the effective date of implementation. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 60
2. Adjusted Profit
To provide shareholders with a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group, Adjusted Profit has been calculated 
as profit before tax after adding back:
• amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits,
• impairment of goodwill,
• unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration,
• unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests,
• share-based payments; and
• non-recurring items (including net gain on disposal of property).
This reflects an amendment to the definition of Adjusted Profit to exclude the add back of amortisation of computer software to be 
in line with current practice. It reconciles to profit on continuing activities before tax as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000 
     restated
Profit before tax     5,116 6,328
Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 14)    6,105 5,256
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13)    4,500 –
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 6) 16 188
Unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration (see note 6)    77 66
Share-based payments    888 464 
Net gain on disposal of property (see note 5)    (3,325) – 
Other non-recurring items (see note 5)    1,325 924
Adjusted profit before tax (“Adjusted Profit before Tax’’)    14,702 13,226
Net finance costs (excluding the unwinding of the discounts above)   2,163 2,456
Adjusted Profit before Tax and net finance costs (’’Adjusted EBITA’’)   16,865 15,682
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 15)    1,043 1,025 
Amortisation of computer software (see note 14)    755 790
Adjusted EBITA before depreciation (’’Adjusted EBITDA’’)    18,663 17,497
3. Segmental information
The Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal financial information provided to the Board, 
which represents the chief operating decision maker.
The Group’s organisational structure reflects the different professional markets to which it provides information, compliance and 
education. The six professional divisions (Pensions & Insurance, Banking & Compliance, Healthcare, Legal, Business Intelligence 
and Accountancy) are the Group’s reportable segments and generate substantially all of the Group’s revenue.
These are now six reportable segments (2012: two segments) as this more accurately reflects the way the Group is now being 
managed.
Other than the change to the definition of Adjusted Profit referred to in note 2, there is no change to any of the Group’s accounting 
policies and there is no restatement of either revenues or profitability, other than this revised segmentation by the six operating 
division headings.
The Board considers the business from both a geographic and product perspective. Geographically, management considers the 
performance of the Group split between the UK and overseas.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 61
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
3. Segmental information continued
(a) Business segments
  Revenue Contribution Revenue Contribution
  Year ended  Year ended Year ended Year ended
  30 June 2013 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Pensions & Insurance  14,629 6,093 12,481 5,227
Banking & Compliance  16,566 3,513 15,251 3,049
Healthcare  13,058 2,836 12,666 2,511
Legal  19,266 2,884 21,671 2,784
Business Intelligence  10,948 2,523 12,388 2,917
Accountancy  10,581 2,135 10,869 2,053
Unallocated central overheads  – (3,119) – (2,859)
  85,048 16,865 85,326  15,682
     
Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 14)   (6,105)  (5,256)
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13)   (4,500)   –
Net gain on disposal of property (see note 5)   3,325   –
Other non-recurring items (see note 5)   (1,325)  (924)
Share-based payments   (888)  (464)
Net finance costs   (2,163)  (2,456)
Unwinding of discounts   (93)  (254)
Profit for the year before tax   5,116  6,328
Taxation (see note 7)   (1,484)  (1,274)
Profit for the year    3,632  5,054
Unallocated central overheads represent head office costs that are not specifically allocated to segments.
Total assets and liabilities for each reportable segment are not presented, as such amounts are not provided to the Board.
 
(b) Segmental information by geography
The UK is the Group’s country of domicile and the Group generates the majority of its revenue from external customers in the UK. 
The geographical analysis of revenue is on the basis of the country of origin in which the customer is invoiced: 
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
UK    58,159 61,115
Europe, excluding the UK    13,070 11,364
North America    7,422 6,979
Rest of the World    6,397 5,868
Total revenue    85,048 85,326
4. Operating expenses
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Distribution and selling costs    15,814 17,408
Administrative expenses (excluding impairment of goodwill and amortisation of intangible assets )  26,438 26,086
    42,252 43,494
Amortisation of intangible assets (administrative expense)     6,860 6,046
Total operating expenses before non-recurring items    49,112 49,540 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 62
5. Profit from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting):
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 15)    1,043 1,025
Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 14)    6,105 5,256
Amortisation of computer software (see note 14)    755 790
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13)    4,500  –
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment    94 (11)
Rentals under operating leases    74 74
Net gain on disposal of property    (3,325)  –
Other non-recurring items (see below)    1,325 924
Share-based payments     780 408
Share-based payments – social security costs    108 56
Foreign exchange loss/ (profit) (including loss on forward currency contracts)   121 (66) 
Fees payable to the Auditors for the audit of the Company and Consolidated Financial Statements  65 80
Fees payable to the Auditors and its associates for other services: 
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    167 172
– Audit-related assurance services    17 33
– Tax compliance services    71 69
– Tax advisory services    31 19
Non-recurring items:
The following items have been charged/(credited) to profit or loss during the year but are of an unusual nature, size or incidence and 
so are shown as non-recurring items.
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Net gain on sale of property     (3,325)  –
Costs written off relating to both successful and abortive acquisitions   270 65
Restructuring and rationalisation costs    593 1,014
Impairment of freehold property and associated property, plant and equipment (see note 15)  325  –
Costs relating to rationalisation of publishing operations    339  –
Write down of print directories work in progress     – 692
Reduction in liability for deferred consideration    (440)  –
Termination costs of joint venture contract    238  –
Net profit from sale of businesses and subsidiaries     – (847)
Total other non-recurring costs    1,325 924
Restructuring and rationalisation costs comprise primarily redundancy and termination costs together with associated reorganisation 
costs.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 63
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
6. Finance income and costs 
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Finance income comprises:
Bank interest receivable    4 2
Finance costs comprise:
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts    (1,653) (1,967)
Facility fees    (267) (248)
Write off of loan arrangement fee    (247) (243)
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase  
of non-controlling interests (see note 22)    (16) (188)
Unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration    (77) (66)
    (2,260) (2,712)
7. Taxation
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at current rates on profits for the year    2,382 2,208
Adjustment in respect of previous years    30 (74)
    2,412 2,134
Foreign tax    854 639
Adjustment to foreign tax in respect of previous years    (4) 52
Total current tax    3,262 2,825
Deferred tax credit (see note 24)    (1,469) (1,021)
Adjustment to deferred tax in respect of previous years (see note 24)   (41) 15 
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (see note 24)   (268) (545)
Total deferred tax    (1,778) (1,551)
Taxation    1,484 1,274 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 64
7. Taxation continued
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year: 
The tax assessed is higher (2012: lower) than the average rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.75% (2012: 25.5%) for the year 
ended 30 June 2013. The differences are explained below: 
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Profit before Tax    5,116 6,328
Profit multiplied by the average rate of corporation tax in the year of 23.75% (2012: 25.5%)  1,215 1,614
Tax effects of:
Depreciation and amortisation in excess of capital allowances    124 241
Impairment not allowable for tax    1,069  –
Foreign tax rate differences    179 72
Adjustment in respect of previous years    26 (7)
Profit on sale of businesses and subsidiaries on which no tax is payable    – (229)
Profit on sale of property on which no tax is payable    (790)  –
Put option and deferred consideration discounts not deductible for tax    4 65
Other items not subject to tax    (75) 63
Effect on deferred tax of change of corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% (2012: 26% to 24%)  (268) (545)
Taxation    1,484 1,274
During the year, on 1 April 2013, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 24% to 23%. This change has been substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is included in these financial statements. As deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods of the reversal, deferred tax balances at 30 June 2013 have 
been calculated using a rate of 23% giving rise to a reduction in the net deferred tax liability of £268,000 (2012: £545,000). The 
Company’s profits for this accounting year are taxed at an effective rate of 23.75%.
On 2 July 2013, the government has enacted a further reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% by 1 April 2014 and 
to 20% by 1 April 2015. This future annual corporation tax reduction is expected to affect the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The actual impact will depend on the Group’s deferred tax position at that time.
8. Discontinued operations 
During the year ended 30 June 2013 and in the comparative year, no operations were classified as discontinued operations.
 
9. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year:
  Year ended Year ended
  30 June 30 June Year ended Year ended
  2013 2012 30 June 30 June
  pence pence 2013 2012
  per share per share £’000 £’000
Final dividends recognised as distributions in the year  3.5 3.5 2,973 2,946
Interim dividends recognised as distributions in the year  3.5 3.5 2,974 2,945
Total dividends paid    5,947 5,891
Final dividend proposed  3.5 3.5 2,974 2,946
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 65
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
10. Earnings per share
Adjusted Earnings per Share has been calculated using adjusted earnings calculated as profit after taxation and non-controlling 
interests but before: 
• amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits; 
•  impairment of goodwill;
•  unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration; 
•  unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests; 
•  share-based payments; and 
•  non-recurring items (including net gain on disposal of property). 
This reflects an amendment to the definition of Adjusted Profit to exclude the add back of amortisation of computer software to be 
in line with current market practice. Prior year comparatives have been restated.
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000 
     restated
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share   3,537 4,884
Add/(remove): 
Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits (net of non-controlling interest effect)  6,105 5,252
Impairment of goodwill    4,500  –
Net gain on disposal of property    (3,325)  –
Other non-recurring items    1,325 924
Share-based payments    888 464
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests  16 188
Unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration    77 66
Tax effect    (2,057) (1,927)
Adjusted earnings for the purposes of adjusted earnings per share   11,066 9,851
    Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic  
and adjusted earnings per share    84,727,804 84,107,422
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Future exercise of share options    1,992,729 2,611,551 
Deferred consideration to be settled by equity    156,550  –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted  
and adjusted diluted earnings per share    86,877,083 86,718,973
Basic earnings per share     4.17p 5.81p
Diluted earnings per share    4.07p 5.63p
Adjusted basic earnings per share (“Adjusted Earnings Per Share’’)   13.06p 11.71p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share    12.74p 11.36p
11. Results of Wilmington Group plc 
Of the results for the year, a profit of £25,227,000 (2012: £3,782,000) relates to Wilmington Group plc, the Parent Company. 
Pursuant to Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company’s own Income Statement and Statement of other 
Comprehensive Income are not presented separately in the Company Financial Statements, but they have been approved by  
the Board.  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 66
12. Acquisitions and disposals 
Business combinations
In February 2013, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of NHiS Limited for an initial cash consideration of £5.5m and 
a further deferred consideration of up to £3.75m subject to the business achieving challenging targets for the growth in underlying 
profit. The deferred consideration will be satisfied by issuing up to 1.5m new Wilmington Group plc shares in October 2016 
dependent inter alia upon NHiS’s audited future earnings for the years ended 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016. The number of new 
Wilmington Group plc shares to be issued in October 2016 will be determined by reference to the average of the closing mid-market 
price on the preceding five business days. 
NHiS has been in operation since 2007 and is a leading provider of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools and other 
services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK. Around 40% of its revenue is derived from subscriptions and the business has 
enjoyed high overall renewal rates as defined by customer spend in excess of 90%. Over 75% of NHiS revenue is delivered digitally.
The acquisition of NHiS is consistent with Wilmington’s strategy of acquiring businesses with high repeat revenues and strong, cash 
generative income streams in the Group’s key markets. 
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill for the acquisition are as follows:
     £’000
Purchase consideration:
Cash paid     5,523
Additional cash consideration to be paid     81
Deferred consideration – equity settled     595
Total purchase consideration     6,199
The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities recognised as a result of this acquisition are as follows:
     Provisional
     fair value
     £’000
Customer relationships     2,700
Data     1,010 
Brand     187 
Other intangible assets     407
Total Intangible assets (see note 14)     4,304
Property, plant and equipment (see note 15)     35
Trade and other receivables (net of allowances)     770
Cash and cash equivalents     547
Subscriptions and deferred revenue     (909)
Trade and other payables     (792) 
Net deferred tax liabilities     (1,047)
Net identifiable liabilities acquired     2,908
Provisional goodwill (see note 13)     3,291
Net assets acquired     6,199
 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 67
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
12. Acquisitions and disposals 
Business combinations continued
In March 2013, the Group acquired the trading assets of Inese, the leading provider of information and events to the insurance  
industry in Spain, from Reed Business Information (“RBI”) for a net consideration of €1.4m in cash. 
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill for the acquisition is as follows:
     £’000
Purchase consideration:
Cash paid     1,151
Total purchase consideration     1,151
The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities recognised as a result of this acquisition are as follows:
     Provisional  
     fair value 
     £’000
Customer relationships     900
Brand     178
Other intangible assets     402
Total Intangible assets (see note 14)     1,480
Trade and other receivables (net of allowances)     749
Subscriptions and deferred revenue     (927)
Trade and other payables     (151)
Net identifiable liabilities acquired     1,151
Provisional goodwill      –
Net assets acquired     1,151
Acquisition-related costs of £215,000 have been recognised in the Income Statement as part of the non-recurring items for the two 
acquisitions.
The acquired businesses contributed revenues of £2,108,000 and profit before divisional overheads, tax and amortisation, of 
£681,000 to the Group for the period from their date of acquisition to 30 June 2013. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 July 2012, 
consolidated revenue and consolidated adjusted profit before tax and amortisation for the twelve months ended 30 June 2013 would 
have been £88,450,000 and £15,876,000 respectively.
Non-controlling interests acquired
During the year, the Group acquired an additional 18.8% of the issued share capital of The Matchett Group Limited for £1,707,000, 
thus making it a wholly owned subsidiary.
Disposals 
In January 2013, the Group sold its interest in its subsidiary Ark Group Australia Pty Limited for a nominal consideration. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 68
13. Goodwill
     £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2011     77,431
Acquisitions      250
Change in provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 22)   (111)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 27)   (171) 
Revision to provisional fair value of prior year acquisition     (56)
At 1 July 2012     77,343
Acquisitions (see note 12)     3,291
Exchange translation differences      –
Change in provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 22)   (99)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 27)   (3)
At 30 June 2013     80,532
Accumulated impairment
At 1 July 2011 and 1 July 2012     2,750
Charge for the year     4,500
At 30 June 2013     7,250
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013     73,282
At 30 June 2012     74,593
At 1 July 2011     74,681
The £4.5m (2012: £nil) impairment charge for the year relates to Wilmington Professional Publishing (‘’WPP’’), a legacy print 
directories, charities, film and television business included within the Business Intelligence operating segment, which has 
experienced significant challenges including the transition from print and advertising based information to digital services.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment. The recoverable amount of the goodwill is determined from value in use 
calculations for each cash generating unit (“CGU”). These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets 
and forecasts approved by the Board covering a three year period. Cash flows beyond the three year period are extrapolated using 
estimated long-term growth rates. 
Key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, cash flow forecasts and long-term growth 
rates. Management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 12.3% (2012: 11.1%) across all CGUs except for the WPP CGU which had 
a pre-tax discount rate of 13.3% (2012: 11.1%) to reflect the greater market challenges and risks. These pre-tax discount rates 
reflect current market assessments for the time value of money and the risks associated with the CGUs as the Group manages its 
treasury function on a Group-wide basis. The same discount rate has been used for all CGUs except WPP , as the Directors believe 
that the risks are the same for each CGU. The long-term growth rates used are based on management’s expectations of future 
changes in the markets for each CGU and are 2.00% (2012: 1.25%). 
Management has performed sensitivity analyses on all impairment calculations, for all CGU’s except WPP , by reducing the growth 
rates by 1% and by increasing the pre-tax discount rate to 14.3%. These scenarios individually would not give rise to a further 
impairment charge.
For WPP , management performed individual sensitivity analyses by:
• increasing the discount rate by 1.0% to 14.3%;
• reducing the long-term growth rate by 1.0%;
• reducing the forecast cash flows by 5.0%.
The result of these revised tests individually, would be a further impairment of between £0.7m and £2.0m.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 69
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
14. Intangible assets
    Group Company
  Publishing
  rights, titles Computer  Computer
  and benefits software Total  software 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2011  59,914 3,288 63,202 554
Additions  13 1,064 1,077 52
Acquisitions  377 – 377 – 
Sale of subsidiary undertakings  – (184) (184) –
Disposals  (909) (3) (912) (47)
At 1 July 2012  59,395 4,165 63,560 559
Additions  262 764 1,026 28
Acquisitions (see note 12)  5,784 – 5,784 –
Exchange translation differences  21 – 21 –
At 30 June 2013  65,462 4,929 70,391 587
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2011  24,770 2,216 26,986 417
Charge for year  5,256 790 6,046 100 
Sale of subsidiary undertakings  – (121) (121) – 
Disposals  (873) – (873) (47)
 
At 1 July 2012  29,153 2,885 32,038 470 
Charge for year  6,105 755 6,860 55
At 30 June 2013  35,258 3,640 38,898 525
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013  30,204 1,289 31,493 62
At 30 June 2012  30,242 1,280 31,522 89
At 1 July 2011  35,144 1,072 36,216 137
The amortisation charge for the year includes an accelerated amortisation charge of £748,000 to reflect a reduction in the useful life 
of the Group’s legacy print businesses. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 70
15. Property, plant and equipment
  Long Short
 Freehold leasehold leasehold Fixtures Computer Motor
 property property property and fittings equipment vehicles Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2011 4,073 3,999 151 4,369 5,040 369 18,001
Additions – – 5 423 329 195 952
Acquisitions  – – – – 13 – 13
Sale of subsidiary undertakings – – – – (34) – (34)
Disposals – – – (173) (4) (95) (272)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1,022) – – (1,474) – – (2,496)
Exchange translation differences – – (8) (5) (24) – (37)
At 1 July 2012 3,051 3,999 148 3,140 5,320 469 16,127
Additions – – 22 550 528 117 1,217
Acquisitions (see note 12) – – – 23 12 – 35
Sale of subsidiary undertakings – – – (70) – – (70)
Disposals – – (31) (843) (2,000) (112) (2,986)
Transfer to assets held for sale  (1,049) (44) – (45) (34) – (1,172)
Exchange translation differences – – 10 10 27 – 47
At 30 June 2013 2,002 3,955 149 2,765 3,853 474 13,198
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 565 1,725 101 3,307 4,401 126 10,225
Charge for the year 49 175 2 447 251 101 1,025
Sale of subsidiary undertakings – – – – (34) – (34)
Disposals – – – (157) (5) (66) (228)
Transfer to assets held for sale (276) – – (1,332) – – (1,608)
Exchange translation differences – – (2) (1) (22) – (25)
At 1 July 2012 338 1,900 101 2,264 4,591 161 9,355
Charge for the year 65 161 2 341 369 105 1,043
Impairment 258 37  24 6 – 325
Sale of subsidiary undertakings – – – (68) – – (68)
Disposals – – (29) (789) (2,000) (76) (2,894)
Transfer to assets held for sale (391) (44) – (45) (34) – (514)
Exchange translation differences – – 9 4 29 – 42
At 30 June 2013 270 2,054 83 1,731 2,961 190 7,289
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013 1,732 1,901 66 1,034 892 284 5,909
At 30 June 2012 2,713 2,099 47 876 729 308 6,772
At 1 July 2011 3,508 2,274 50 1,062 639 243 7,776
Included in freehold property is £970,000 (2012: £970,000) of non-depreciated land. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to operating expenses within the Income Statement.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 71
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
 Long Short
 leasehold leasehold Fixtures Computer
 property property and fittings equipment Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2011 2,789 31 42 171 3,033
Additions – – – 5 5
Disposals – – – (27) (27)
At 1 July 2012 2,789 31 42 149 3,011
Disposals – (31) (8) – (39)
At 30 June 2013 2,789 – 34 149 2,972
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 1,423 29 36 123 1,611
Charge for the year 137 2 2 25 166
Disposals – – – (8) (8)
 
At 1 July 2012 1,560 31 38 140 1,769 
Charge for the year 142 – 1 4 147 
Disposals – (31) (5) – (36)
At 30 June 2013 1,702 – 34 144 1,880
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013 1,087 – – 5 1,092
At 30 June 2012 1,229 – 4 9 1,242
At 1 July 2011 1,366 2 6 48 1,422
Non-current assets held for sale
During the year, the Group made a decision to sell one of its freehold properties. This property is currently being marketed and is 
expected to be sold for a value close to its book value. The property, together with associated fixtures and fittings, is shown as held 
for sale at the year end.
Non-current assets held for sale comprise:
 
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000 
Freehold property    657 746 
Fixtures and fittings    – 142 
    657 888 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 72
16. Investments in subsidiaries
    Shares in subsidiary 
     undertakings
Company     £’000 
Cost less provision at 1 July 2011     43,621 
Transfer of investment in subsidiaries to one of its subsidiaries      (1,976)
Share-based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries     264
Cost less provision at 1 July 2012     41,909
Acquisitions (see note 12)     6,199
Share-based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries     483
Cost less provision at 30 June 2013     48,591
During the year, Wilmington Group Plc transferred at book value its investments in its subsidiaries to Wilmington Holdings  
No 1 Limited, a newly formed company. Wilmington Group Plc owns 100% of Wilmington Holdings No 1 Limited. 
The table below gives brief details of the Group’s principal operating subsidiaries at 30 June 2013. All have ordinary share capital 
and a year end of 30 June. Except where indicated, all of the principal subsidiaries were incorporated in and principally operated in 
Great Britain. Subsidiaries marked (*) are indirectly owned.
The Group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore includes only 
those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to 
the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
  Percentage 
Name of company Business owned
Training & Events
Adkins, Matchett & Toy (Hong Kong) Limited*  
(incorporated and operates in Hong Kong) Provision of professional training 100
Adkins & Matchett (UK) Limited* Provision of professional training 100
Adkins, Matchett & Toy Limited*  
(incorporated and operates in the USA) Provision of professional training 100
APM International SAS*
(incorporated and operates in France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
APM Media SARL*
(incorporated and operates in France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
Ark Conferences Limited* Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Ark Group Inc*
(incorporated and operates in the USA) Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Ark Group Limited* Holding company 100
Ark Singapore Pty Limited*
(incorporated and operates in Singapore) Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Axco Insurance Information Services Limited* Provision of international compliance and regulatory information for the 
 global insurance industry 100
Bond Solon Training Limited* Witness training and conferences 100
CLT International Limited* Certified professional training 100
Central Law Training Limited* Professional education, post qualification training and legal conferences 100
Central Law Training (Scotland) Limited* Professional education, post qualification training and legal conferences 80
International Company Profile FZ LLC*  
(Middle East) (incorporated and operates in Dubai) Provision of financial information  100
International Compliance Training Limited* Training courses in international compliance and money laundering 100
International Compliance Training (Singapore) Limited*
(incorporated and operates in Singapore) Training courses in international compliance and money laundering  100
International Compliance Training (Middle East) LLC*
(incorporated and operates in UAE) Training courses in international compliance and money laundering  100
John Matchett Limited* Provision of professional training and support services 100
La Touche Bond Solon Training Limited*
(incorporated and operates in Ireland) Witness and post qualification legal training 100
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 73
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
  Percentage 
Name of company Business owned
Mercia Group Limited* Training and support services to the accountancy profession 100
Mercia Ireland Limited*
(incorporated and operates in Ireland) Training and support services to the accountancy profession 60
Mercia NI Limited*
(incorporated and operates in Northern Ireland) Training and support services to the accountancy profession 60
NHiS Limited Provision of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools and other   
 services to the healthcare industry 100
Pendragon Professional Information Limited*  Provision of information for professionals in the pensions industry 100
Practice Track Limited* Marketing support services for the accountancy profession 100
Quorum Training Limited* Financial training courses 100
Smee and Ford Limited* Provision of legacy information 100
The Matchett Group Limited* Provision of professional training 100
Wilmington Business Information Limited  Holding company 100
Wilmington Healthcare Limited* Provision of reference information to the healthcare industry 100
Wilmington Holdings No 1 Limited Holding company 100
Wilmington Inese SL (incorporated and  
operates in Spain) * Provision of Spanish language subscription based publications 100
Wilmington Millennium Limited* Provision of legacy information 82.5
Wilmington Publishing & Information Limited * Provision of information and events for professional markets 100
Wilmington Shared Services Limited* Provision of shared services 100
Wilmington Training & Events Limited * Holding company 100
Wilmington Training & Events Limited owns 80% of Central Law Training (Scotland) Limited. Mercia Group Limited owns 60% of  
Mercia NI Limited and Mercia Ireland Limited. Wilmington Publishing & Information owns 82.5% of Wilmington Millennium Limited. 
During the year, Wilmington Training & Events Limited acquired additional shares in The Matchett Group Limited increasing its stake  
to 100%. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 74
17. Inventories 
     Group
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Raw materials    6 11
Work in progress    8 20
Finished goods - books for resale    40 28
    54 59
18. Trade and other receivables
   Group  Company
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Trade receivables  17,211 15,772 – –
Other receivables  1,968 1,116 4 –
Prepayments and accrued income  2,146 3,222 84 426
  21,325 20,110 88 426
Non-current
Amounts due from subsidiaries   – – 70,169 71,844
  21,325 20,110 70,257 72,270
Amounts due from subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and are not due for repayment within 12 months of the balance sheet 
date.
19. Derivative financial liabilities
   Group  Company
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current liabilities
Forward currency contracts  (63) (26) (63) (6)
Non current liabilities
Interest rate swaps  (1,096) (1,446) (1,096) (1,446)
Details of these derivative financial liabilities are set out in note 23.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 75
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
20. Trade and other payables
   Group  Company
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables  3,995 3,409 – –
Other payables  2,623 2,377 218 1,001
Social security and other taxes  3,591 3,240 – 69
Subscriptions and deferred revenue  18,563 17,310 – –
Accruals  10,482 9,216 1,380 1,060
Amounts due to subsidiaries   – – 1,601 17
  39,254 35,552 3,199 2,147
Amounts due to subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
21. Bank loans and overdrafts
   Group  Company
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current liability  
Bank overdrafts  890 2,159 8,530 9,227
Non-current liability
Bank loans  40,286 38,000 20,286 38,000
Facility fees  (535) (782) (535) (782)
Bank loans net of facility fees  39,751 37,218 19,751 37,218
Details of the Group’s bank facilities are set out in note 23.
22. Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests
     Group
    Current  Non current
    provisions  provisions 
    £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2011    – 1,896
Unwinding of discount (see note 6)    – 188
Change in value of existing provisions (see note 13)    – (111)
Non-current provisions that became current    1,808 (1,808)
At 1 July 2012    1,808 165
Amounts paid in respect of acquisitions of non-controlling interests   (1,707) –
Unwinding of discount (see note 6)    – 16
Change in value of existing provisions (see note 13)    (101) 2
At 30 June 2013    – 183
Provisions represent the estimated future cost (discounted to reflect the time value of money) required to settle put options held by 
non-controlling shareholders over non-controlling interest shares, should the put options be exercised. 
The actual settlement timing and value is dependent upon when (and if) the non-controlling shareholders choose to exercise their 
options and the profitability of the underlying companies at the date of exercise. For the purposes of estimating the above provision, 
it has been assumed that put options are exercised at the first available opportunity. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 76
23. Financial Instruments and risk management 
The Group’s financial instruments arise from its operations (for example, trade receivables and trade payables) from the financing 
of its operations (for example, loans and borrowings and equity) and from its risk management activities (for example, interest rate 
swaps and forward currency contracts). The risks to which the Group is exposed include interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, 
liquidity and capital risk, and credit risk.
This note expands on the summary information provided in the Treasury Policy section of the Financial Review. 
Interest rate risk
Risk
The Group financing arrangements include external debt that is subject to a variable interest rate. The Group is consequently 
exposed to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest rates applicable to that external finance. In particular, 
interest is charged on the £40m (2012: £37m) amount drawn down on the revolving credit facility (see below) at a rate of between 
2.00 and 2.75 per cent above LIBOR depending upon leverage. Cash flow volatility therefore arises from movements in the LIBOR 
interest rates.
Group policy
The Group policy is to enter into interest rate swap contracts to maintain the ratio of fixed to variable rate debt at a level that 
achieves a reasonable cost of debt whilst reducing the exposure to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest 
rates.
Risk management arrangements
The Group’s interest rate swap contracts offset part of its variable interest payments and replace them with fixed payments. In 
particular, the Group has hedged its exposure to the LIBOR part of the interest rate for a £35m portion of the loan facility via two 
interest rate swaps, as follows:
• A 5 year £15m interest rate swap commencing on 21 November 2011, whereby the Group receives interest on £15m based  
 on the LIBOR rate and is paid interest on £15m at a fixed rate of 2.68%; and
• A 3 year £10m interest rate swap commencing on 21 November 2011, whereby the Group receives interest on £10m based on  
 the LIBOR rate and is paid interest on £10m at a fixed rate of 2.12%.
These derivatives have been designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. The net settlement of interest on the 
interest rate swap, which comprises a variable rate interest receipt and a fixed rate interest payment, is recorded in interest expense 
in the income statement and so is matched against the corresponding variable rate interest payment on the revolving credit facility. 
The derivatives are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date. This gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is 
recognised in equity following the Directors’ assessment of the hedge’s effectiveness.
Sensitivity analysis
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated charge to the Income Statement and equity arising 
from a 1% increase in market interest rates applicable at 30 June 2013, with all other variables remaining constant. The sensitivity 
analysis makes the following assumptions: 
a) Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments.
b) Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates 
if they are recognised at fair value. 
c) Changes in market interest rates do not affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments 
and all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 77
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
23. Financial Instruments and risk management continued
Sensitivity analysis continued
    Income  Equity  
    Statement (before tax)
    100 bps  100 bps
    Increase Increase
    £’000 £’000 
Variable rate debt    (141) –
Interest rate swap    – 560
    (141) 560
Foreign currency risk
Risk
The currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates is Sterling, and this is also the currency in which 
the Group presents its Financial Statements. However, the Group has significant Euro and US dollar cash flows arising from 
international trading and overseas operations. The Group is consequently exposed to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in 
the applicable exchange rates for converting Euros and US dollars to Sterling. 
Group policy
The Group policy is to fix the exchange rate in relation to a periodically reassessed set percentage of expected Euro and US dollar 
net cash inflows arising from international trading, by entering into foreign currency contracts to sell a specified amount of Euros 
or US dollars on a specified future date at a specified exchange rate. This set percentage is approved by the Board as part of the 
budgeting procedures.
The Group policy is to finance investment in overseas operations from borrowings in the local currency of the relevant operation, so 
as to achieve a natural hedge of the foreign currency translation risk.
Risk management arrangements
On 12 March 2012, the Group sold forward US$0.5m to 30 November 2012 at a rate of 1.5614. On 15 March 2012, the Group 
sold forward a total of US$3.5m at rates between 1.5290 and 1.5860 which are determined on 3 dates (“the expiry dates”) between 
28 September 2012 and 27 March 2013. These contracts were entered into in order to provide certainty in Sterling terms of the 
Group’s net US dollar income.
On 12 December 2012, the Group sold forward €0.6m to 28 June 2013 at a rate of 1.2395. This contract was entered into in order 
to provide certainty in Sterling terms of the Group’s net Euro income.
On 22 April 2013, the Group sold forward $1.0m to 10 December 2013 at a rate of 1.5248. On 20 June 2013, the Group sold 
forward $2.0m to 31 October 2013 at a rate of 1.545, $1.0m to 28 February 2014 at a rate of 1.5419, and $2.5m to 31 March 
2014 at a rate of 1.5417. These contracts were entered into in order to provide certainty in Sterling terms of 80% of the Group’s net 
US dollar income. 
On 28 June 2013, the Group sold forward €0.5m to 30 September 2013 at a rate of 1.1673, €1.5m to 30 September 2013 at a rate 
of 1.1673,€1.0m to 29 November 2013 at a rate of 1.1664, and €0.5m to 28 February 2014 at a rate of 1.1655. These contracts 
were entered into in order to provide certainty in Sterling terms of 80% of the Group’s net Euro income.
The above derivatives are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date. This gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of 
which is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Group purchased, on 1 March 2013, the business and assets of Inese, an operation in Spain. The Group financed this 
acquisition via a €1.5m drawdown on the Group’s multi-currency revolving loan facility (see below). This debt has been designated 
as a currency hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation for accounting purposes. It is translated into Sterling at each 
reporting date, which gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is recognised in equity following the Directors’ 
assessment of the hedge’s effectiveness. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 78
23. Financial Instruments and risk management continued
Sensitivity analysis continued
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated charge to the Income Statement and equity arising from 
a 10% difference in the US Dollar to Sterling and Euro to Sterling exchange rates applicable at 30 June 2013, with all other variables 
remaining constant. The sensitivity analysis makes the assumption that changes in foreign currency rates only affect income, 
expense, assets and liabilities that are denominated in the relevant currencies. 
      
   Income  Equity
   Statement  (before tax)
  +10% -10% +10% -10%
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents  (249) 249 (528) 528
Trade receivables  – – (283) 283
Trade payables  – – 461 (461)
Foreign exchange impact on profit  (278) 278 (278) 278
  (527) 527 (628) 628
Liquidity and capital risk
Risk
The Group has historically expanded its operations both organically and via acquisition, financed partly by retained profits but also 
via external finance. As well as financing cash outflows, the Group’s activities give rise to working capital obligations and other 
operational cash outflows. The Group is consequently exposed to the risk that it cannot meet its obligations as they fall due, or can 
only meet them at an uneconomic price.
Group policy
The Group policy is to preserve a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to safeguard 
the future development of the business, but also to balance these objectives with the efficient use of capital. The Group has, in 
previous years, made purchases of its own shares (see note 25) whilst taking into account the availability of credit.
Risk management arrangements
The Group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, medium and long-term ﬁnancial instruments to support 
operational and other funding requirements. The Group determines its liquidity requirements by the use of short and long-term cash 
forecasts.
The Group has an unsecured committed bank facility of £65m (2012: £65m) to February 2016. The facility currently comprises a 
revolving credit facility of £60m (2012: £60m) and an overdraft facility of £5m (2012: £5m). At 30 June 2013, £40m of the revolving 
credit facility was drawn down (2012: £38m). Interest is charged on the amount drawn down at between 2.00 and 2.75 per cent 
above LIBOR depending upon leverage, and drawdowns are made for periods of up to six months in duration. Interest is charged 
on the overdraft facility at 2.25% above the Barclays bank base rate. The Group has complied at all times with the covenant 
requirements of the bank facility arrangement.
The Group had available undrawn committed bank facilities as follows:
      
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Expiring within one year    – –
Expiring after more than one year    19,714 22,000
    19,714 22,000
The following tables provide a maturity analysis of the remaining contractually agreed cash flows for the Group’s non-derivative 
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, which therefore differ from the carrying value and fair value.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 79
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
23. Financial Instruments continued
Group
 Within  1 – 2 2 – 5  More than
 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Total
At 30 June 2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 890 – – – 890
Bank loans including interest 1,108 1,108 41,025 – 43,241
Trade payables and accruals 17,100 – – – 17,100
Provisions for future purchase  
of non-controlling interests – 183 – – 183
 19,098 1,291 41,025 – 61,414
 Within  1 – 2 2 – 5  More than
 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Total
At 30 June 2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 2,159 – – – 2,159
Bank loans including interest 2,220 2,220 41,700 – 46,140
Trade payables and accruals 15,002 – – – 15,002
Provisions for future purchase  
of non-controlling interests 1,808 100 89 – 1,997
 21,189 2,320 41,789 – 65,298
Company 
 Within  1 – 2 2 – 5  More than Total carrying
 1 Year Years Years 5 Years amount
At 30 June 2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 8,530 – – – 8,530
Bank loans including interest 558 558 20,658 – 21,774
Trade payables, accruals and amounts  
due to subsidiary undertakings 3,199 – – – 3,199
 12,287 558 20,658 – 33,503
 Within  1 – 2 2 – 5  More than Total carrying
 1 Year Years Years 5 Years amount
At 30 June 2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts 9,227 – – – 9,227
Bank loans including interest 2,220 2,220 41,700 – 46,140
Trade payables, accruals and amounts  
due to subsidiary undertakings 2,078 – – – 2,078
 13,525 2,220 41,700 – 57,445
The Company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s bankers (see note 28).  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 80
23. Financial Instruments continued
Credit Risk
Risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are receivables and bank balances. The Group is consequently exposed to the risk that its 
customers or the bank cannot meet their obligations as they fall due.
Group policy
The Group policy is that the lines of business assess the creditworthiness and financial strength of customers at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. The Group also reviews the credit rating of the bank.
Risk management arrangements
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk 
because its trading is spread over a large number of customers. The payment terms offered to customers take into account the 
assessment of their creditworthiness and financial strength, and they are set in accordance with industry standards. 
The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for bad and doubtful receivables estimated by management 
based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic value. 
Set out below is an analysis of the Group’s trade receivables by due date prior to impairment. 
 Not due 0 – 30 days 30 – 60 days Over 60 days Total Allowances Net
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 June 2013 9,644 3,655 1,883 2,972 18,154 (943) 17,211
At 30 June 2012 8,114 4,433 1,691 2,817 17,055 (1,283) 15,772
Receivables within the 0-30 days category or above are past due, but the Group considers them to be collectable and not impaired 
except where specifically provided for.
Set out below is the movement for the year in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts relating to trade receivables.
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Allowances at 1 July 2012    1,283 694
Additions charged to Income Statement    182 180
Allowances made in respect of acquisitions     (198) 462
Allowances used    (107) (8)
Allowances reversed    (217) (45)
Allowances at 30 June 2013    943 1,283
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 81
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
23. Financial Instruments continued
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
The table below sets out the accounting classification and the carrying and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The carrying value and fair value are equal in all cases. None of the financial instruments have been reclassified during the 
year.
Group
   Financial
 Fair value  instruments  
 through  Loans and designated Amortised
 profit and loss receivables for hedging cost Other Total
At 30 June 2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 7,803 – – – 7,803
Trade and other receivables – 19,179 – – – 19,179
 – 26,982 – – – 26,982
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables – – – (17,100) – (17,100)
Bank overdrafts – – – (890) – (890)
Borrowings due after more than one year – – (1,167) (38,584) – (39,751)
Interest rate swaps – – (1,096) – – (1,096)
Forward currency contracts (63) – – – – (63)
Put options for non-controlling interests – – – – (183) (183)
 (63) – (2,263) (56,574) (183) (59,083)
 Fair value    Derivatives Other
 through  Available Loans and used for financial
 profit and loss for sale receivables hedging liabilities Total
At 30 June 2012 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 3,954 – – – 3,954
Trade and other receivables – 16,888 – – – 16,888
 – 20,842 – – – 20,842
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables – – – (15,002) – (15,002)
Bank overdrafts – – – (2,159) – (2,159)
Borrowings due after more than one year – – – (37,218) – (37,218)
Interest rate swaps – – (1,446) – – (1,446)
Forward currency contracts (26) – – – – (26)
Put options for non-controlling interests – – – – (1,973) (1,973)
 (26) – (1,446) (54,379) (1,973) (57,824) Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 82
23. Financial Instruments continued
Company
    Financial
  Fair value   instruments 
  through  Loans and designated  Amortised
  profit and loss receivables for hedging cost Total
At 30 June 2013  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  – 47 – – 47
Trade and other receivables  – 70,169 – – 70,169
  – 70,216 – – 70,216
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables  – – – (3,199) (3,199)
Bank overdrafts  – – – (8,530) (8,530)
Borrowings due after more than one year  – – – (19,751) (19,751)
Interest rate swaps  – – (1,096) – (1,096)
Forward currency contracts  (63) – – – (63)
  (63) – (1,096) (31,480) (32,639)
    Financial
  Fair value   instruments 
  through  Loans and designated  Amortised
  profit and loss receivables for hedging cost Total
At 30 June 2012  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  – 1 – – 1
Trade and other receivables  – 71,844 – – 71,844
  – 71,845 – – 71,845
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables  – – – (1,534) (1,534)
Bank overdrafts  – – – (9,227) (9,227)
Borrowings due after more than one year  – – – (37,218) (37,218)
Interest rate swaps  – – (1,446) – (1,446)
Forward currency contracts  (6) – – – (6)
  (6) – (1,446) (47,979) (49,431)
The ‘Put options for non-controlling interests’ refers to options between the non-controlling interest holders of subsidiaries and the 
Group. The options require the Group to purchase a non-controlling shareholding in accordance with its contractual obligation.  
The liability represents the costs to the Group of buying out these non-controlling interests should the put options be exercised by 
the non-controlling shareholders. The valuation upon exercise is dependent on the performance of the subsidiary undertakings at 
the date the options are exercised. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 83
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
23. Financial Instruments continued
Fair value measurement 
The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
• The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximates to fair value due to the short maturity of the amounts  
 receivable and payable.
• The fair value of the Group’s borrowings are estimated on the basis of the discounted value of future cash flows using  
 approximate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
• The fair value of the Group’s outstanding interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and put options for non-controlling  
 interest are estimated using discounted cash flow models and market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance  
 sheet date.
The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value via a valuation method. The different levels have been defined as:
Level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices); and
Level 3
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
Group
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 30 June 2013  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or Expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement  – 63 – 63
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging  – 1,096 – 1,096
Total liabilities  – 1,159 – 1,159
 
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 30 June 2012  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or Expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement  – 26 – 26
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging  – 1,446 – 1,446
Total liabilities  – 1,472 – 1,472 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 84
Company
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 30 June 2013  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or Expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement  – 63 – 63
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging  – 1,096 – 1,096
Total liabilities  – 1,159 – 1,159
 
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 30 June 2012  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or Expense
– Trading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement  – 26 – 26
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging  – 1,446 – 1,446
Total liabilities  – 1,472 – 1,472
24. Deferred tax
Movements on deferred tax are as follows:
    Group Company
    £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Asset at 1 July 2011    335 217
Deferred tax credit/(charge) in the Income Statement for the year    131 (14)
Write off of deferred tax asset on sale of business    (3) –
Prior year deferred tax adjustment    – 3
Deferred tax credit included directly in equity for the year    176 176
Asset at 1 July 2012    639 382
Deferred tax credit/(charge) in the Income Statement for the year    56 122
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate    (24) (16)
Deferred tax credit included directly in equity for the year    216 19
Asset at 30 June 2013    887 507
 
The Group deferred tax asset arises as a result of tax on share-based payments of £620,000 (2012: £292,000) and fair value interest 
rate swap losses of £267,000 (2012: £347,000).
The Company deferred tax asset arises as a result of tax on share-based payments of £240,000 (2012: £35,000) and fair value interest 
rate swap losses of £267,000 (2012: £347,000). It is anticipated that the Company will make sufficient taxable profit to allow the benefit 
of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 85
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
24. Deferred tax continued
Movements on deferred tax are as follows:
    Group Company
    £’000 £’000
Non-current liabilities
Liability at 1 July 2011    7,938 –
Deferred tax (credit) in the Income Statement for the year    (890) –
Prior year deferred tax adjustment    15 –
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate    (545) –
Exchange translation differences    – –
Liability at 1 July 2012    6,518 –
Deferred tax (credit) in the Income Statement for the year    (1,413) –
Deferred tax liabilities arising on acquisition of businesses (see note 12)   1,047 –
Prior year deferred tax adjustment    (41) –
Effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate    (292) –
Exchange translation differences    3 –
Liability at 30 June 2013    5,822 –
The deferred tax liability arises as a result of accelerated tax depreciation and amortisation.
25. Share capital
 Number  Share Obligation
 of ordinary  Ordinary premium to issue Treasury
 shares shares account shares shares Total
 of 5p each £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Authorised
At 1 July 2012 110,000,000 5,500
At 30 June 2013 110,000,000 5,500
 
Issued and fully paid  
ordinary shares
At 1 July 2011 84,813,981 4,241 43,792 1,746 (4,008) 45,771
Shares issued during the year 1,289,156 64 1,439 (1,746) – (243)
At 1 July 2012 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 – (4,008) 45,528
Treasury shares reissued  
during the year – – – – 1,652 1,652
At 30 June 2013 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 – (2,356) 47,180
During the year, no ordinary shares were issued in respect of share options and awards exercised by members of staff (including 
Directors) (2012: nil). 
The Company sold 800,000 treasury shares during the year (2012: nil). At 30 June 2013, 1,142,000 shares were held in Treasury 
(2012: 1,942,000), which represents 1.3% (2012: 2.3%) of the called up share capital of the Company. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 86
26. Share based payments
Details of Directors’ share options and awards are set out in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration. Employees of the Group 
(including Directors) hold options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:
a) Under the Wilmington Group plc 1999 Approved Share Option Scheme
   Number of shares    Number of shares 
   for which options Options Options for which options 
Year of  Subscription Period within which outstanding at  exercised lapsed outstanding at  
grant price per share options exercisable 1 July 2012 during year during year 30 June 2013
2004 118.5p Mar 2007-Mar 2014 47,500 – – 47,500
The increase in Adjusted Earnings per Share of the Company must be at least as great as the growth in the FTSE All Share Index 
over the same period. For options granted since March 2003 the increase in Adjusted Earnings per Share must have grown by a 
percentage which is not less than the percentage increase during the relevant period in the Retail Price Index plus 2% or 3% for 
each year up to the exercise date. If options remain unexercised after a period of 7 years from the date of the grant, the option 
expires. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 
The options were valued using the Black Scholes model with the following assumptions: 
Expected volatility (%) 25
Expected life (years) 5
Risk free rate (%) 5
Expected dividends (%) 3
Expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the Group’s share price. The expected life used in the 
model is the mid-point of the exercise period.
  Year ended 30 June 2013 Year ended 30 June 2012
   Weighted   Weighted
   average   average
   exercise price  exercise price 
  Number (pence) Number (pence)
Outstanding at 1 July  47,500 118.50 65,100 132.42
Lapsed  – – (17,600) 170.00
Outstanding at 30 June  47,500 118.50 47,500 118.50
Exercisable at 30 June  47,500 118.50 47,500 118.50
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 87
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
26. Share based payments continued
  Year ended 30 June 2013 Year ended 30 June 2012
 Weighted  Weighted Weighted  Weighted
 average   average average  average
 exercise    remaining  exercise   remaining 
 price Number of contractual life price Number of contractual life
Range of exercise prices (pence) shares (years) (pence) shares (years)
100p - 199p 118.50 47,500 0.75 118.50 47,500 1.75
b) Under the Wilmington Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan
   Number of    Number of
   shares for    shares for
   which awards Awards Awards Awards which awards
 Awards price  Date of outstanding at granted vested lapsed outstanding at
Year of Grant per Share vesting 1 July 2012  during year during year during year 30 June 2013
2009 Nil Sept 2012 520,514 – – (520,514) –
2010 Nil Sept 2013 1,326,159 – – – 1,326,159
2011 Nil Oct 2014 911,959 – – – 911,959
2012 Nil Oct 2015 – 444,198 – – 444,198
Details of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 41 to 44.
These awards were valued using the Monte Carlo method with the following assumptions:
Expected volatility (%) 26 to 36
Expected life (years) 3
Expected dividends (%) Nil
Expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the Group’s share price. The expected life used in the 
model is the mid-point of the exercise period.
27. Non-controlling interests
   Non-controlling Non-controlling
   interests –  interests –
   share of  provisions for Net Non-
   results and  future controlling
   funds acquisition  interests
   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2011   1,356 (1,306) 50
Profit for the year   170 – 170
Dividends paid   (10) – (10)
Exchange translation difference   11 – 11
Acquisition of non-controlling interests during the year   (364) 364 –
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries sold during the year   (56) 6 (50) 
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 13) – (171) (171)
At 1 July 2012   1,107 (1,107) –
Profit for the year   95 – 95
Dividends paid   (27) – (27)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests during the year   (982) 982 –
New contribution from non-controlling interest   80 – 80
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (see note 13) – (3) (3)
At 30 June 2013   273 (128) 145 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 88
28. Contingencies and commitments 
Contingencies 
Company 
The Company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s bankers in respect of the net £5 million overdraft 
facilities extended to certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. At 30 June 2013, the Company’s gross contingent liability in respect of 
this facility was £1,981,000 (2012: £3,953,000).
Commitments 
a) The Group had, in relation to property, plant and equipment, capital commitments contracted but not provided for at 30 June 2013 
of £nil (2012: £nil).
b) Total future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
   Group  Company
  Property Property
   30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
   2013 2012 2013 2012
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
One year   351 459 12 50
Between two and five years   722 950 – 12
After five years   163 233 – –
   1,236 1,642 12 62
29. Related party transactions 
The Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings offer certain Group-wide purchasing facilities to the Company’s other 
subsidiary undertakings whereby the actual costs are recharged. 
The Company has made recharges totaling £1,024,000 (2012: £3,000,000) to its subsidiaries in respect of management services. In 
addition, it has recharged at cost certain administrative expenses totaling £422,750 (2012: £761,300) to its subsidiary undertakings. 
Amounts due from and to subsidiary undertakings by the Company are set out in notes 18 and 20 respectively.
During the year, the Company received dividends of £30,100,000 from subsidiaries (2012: £6,050,000).
30. Staff and their pay and benefits
a) Employee costs (including Directors) were as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries    30,877 31,794
Social security costs    3,876 3,734
Pension costs    613 784
Share-based payments (including social security costs) (see note 5)   888 464
    36,254 36,776
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 89
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
30. Staff and their pay and benefits
b) Remuneration of key management personnel that held office for part or all of the year (2013: 10 people: 2012; 10 people),  
which includes the directors and other key management personnel, is shown in the table below:
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits    2,181 1,718
Pension costs    75 93
Share-based payments    427 113
    2,683 1,924
More detailed information concerning director’s remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlement, share options and other long-
term incentive plans is shown in the audited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 44, which forms part of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
c) The average number of employees (including Directors) employed by the Group was as follows:
    Year ended Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    Number Number
Selling and distribution    249 260
Production    191 182
Administration    364 377
    804 819
Total full time equivalents at 30 June 2013 were 742 (2012: 737). 
d) Retirement benefits
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes. Total contributions to the schemes during the year were £613,000 
(2012: £784,000).  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 90
31. Cash generated from operations
   Group  Company
  Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
  30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit from continuing operations before income tax  5,116 6,328 24,576 3,606
Net gain on disposal of property (see note 5)  (3,325) – – –
Non-recurring items (see note 5)  1,325 924 728 42
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 15)  1,043 1,025 147 166
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13)  4,500 – – –
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 14)  6,860 6,046 55 100
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (see note 5) 94 (11) – –
Share-based payments (including social security costs) (see note 30) 888 464 280 83
Net finance costs (see note 6)  2,256 2,710 2,064 2,460
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  18,757 17,486 27,850 6,457
Decrease in inventories  5 77 – –
Decrease in receivables  59 1,831 4,606 3,348
Increase/(decrease) in payables  564 (1,980) 997 (19)
Cash generated from operations before non-recurring items  19,385 17,414 33,453 9,786
There were no discontinued operations during the year (2012: nil).
Cash conversion is calculated as a percentage of cash generated by operations to Adjusted EBITA as follows:
    Year ended  Year ended
    30 June 30 June
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Adjusted EBITA (see note 2)    16,865 15,682
Amortisation of computer software    755 790 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    1,043 1,025 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment    94 (11)
Operating cash before movement in working capital    18,757 17,486 
Net working capital movement    628 (72)
Funds from operations before non-recurring items    19,385 17,414
Cash conversion    115% 111%
32. Events after the reporting period
 On 15 August 2013, the Group acquired Compliance Week for $11.2m. Compliance Week focuses on regulatory and compliance 
issues related to financial reporting, regulatory enforcement, corporate governance, enterprise risk management, and related global 
issues, from consumer privacy to data management. It is located in Boston, USA, and will provide a base for selective further US 
expansion and investment, in particular for our Axco insurance and risk products and for our Compliance businesses.
The acquisition of Compliance Week is consistent with Wilmington’s strategy of acquiring businesses with high repeat revenues 
and strong, cash generative income streams in the Group’s key markets. The business will form part of Wilmington’s Banking & 
Compliance division. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 91
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 £m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue 86.3 78.4 83.8 85.3 85.0
Cost of sales (27.1) (24.8) (25.5) (25.8) (26.0)
Gross profit 59.2 53.6 58.3 59.5 59.0 
Operating expenses (44.6) (39.4) (44.0) (43.6) (42.3)
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment  
of goodwill and intangible assets and non-recurring items 14.6 14.2 14.3 15.9 16.7
Operating non-recurring items (1.7) (0.1) (0.7) (0.9) 2.1
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment  
of goodwill and intangible assets 12.9 14.1 13.6 15.0 18.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (5.0) (4.9) (5.7) (6.0) (6.9) 
Impairment of Goodwill (2.8) – – – (4.5)
Profit from operations before finance costs and taxation 5.1 9.2 7.9 9.0 7.4
Finance costs (2.2) (1.9) (1.8) (2.7) (2.3)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2.9 7.3 6.1 6.3 5.1
Taxation (1.9) (2.5) (1.5) (1.2) (1.5)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1.0 4.8 4.6 5.1 3.6
Adjusted Profit before Tax (restated) 12.8 12.6 12.9 13.2 14.7
Operating cash inflows 13.9 15.5 15.8 17.4 19.4
Basic earnings per ordinary share from     
continuing operations (pence) 0.46 5.38 5.20 5.81 4.17
Diluted earnings per ordinary share from     
continuing operations (pence) 0.45 5.30 5.07 5.63 4.07
Adjusted Earnings per ordinary share from     
continuing operations (pence) (restated) 10.07 10.16 11.38 11.71 13.06
Interim and proposed final dividend per share (pence) 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00
Return on Equity (%) (restated) 22.27 23.95 24.75 25.31 28.08
Return on Sales (%) (restated) 16.40 17.79 17.27 18.38 19.83
The above is based on information extracted from the Company’s Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
Pro-forma Five Year
Financial Summary (Unaudited) Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 92
Corporate calendar 
Annual General Meeting
5 November 2013
Announcement of Interim Results
February 2014
Announcement of Final Results
September 2014
Financial Advisers and 
Joint Stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited 
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
 
Canaccord Genuity
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 9QR
 
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
 
Solicitors
Lawrence Graham LLP
4 More London Riverside 
London SE1 2AU
 
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing BN99 6DA
 
Shareholder helpline
0871 384 2855 (UK)
+44 121 415 7047 (Overseas)
Registered Office
6-14, Underwood Street, 
London, N1 7JQ
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7490 0049
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7422 6822
Company Registration No. 3015847
Incorporated and domiciled in the UK
www.wilmington.co.uk
 
Advisers and Corporate Calendar The paper used for this report comes from 
sustainable forests and is fully recyclable and 
biodegradable. The manufacturers of the paper 
and the printer are accredited with ISO 14001 
environmental management system.
Design & production
www.carrkamasa.co.uk Wilmington Group plc
6-14, Underwood Street, London, N1 7JQ
Tel: +44 (0)20 7490 0049 Fax: +44 (0)20 7422 6822
www.wilmington.co.uk
Wilmington Group plc   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
