 Information,
compliance 
and education
for professional 
markets
2014
WILMINGTON GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 30 June 2014
Stock Code: WIL Wilmington Group plc
Wilmington is a collaborative 
group of companies with a 
common aim. We transform 
potential into performance.
Our businesses enable professionals and their organisations to perform better 
by providing quality, relevant and reliable information, compliance and education. 
We share ideas and successes across the Group, harness shared resources and 
focus on our customers’ needs. Wilmington has an entrepreneurial, supportive 
and creative culture, so initiatives can be realised quickly.
Read more in 
our Chairman’s Statement
08
REASONS TO INVEST
•
 High proportion of subscription and repeatable revenues
•
 
High conversion of operating profits into cash
•
 
Strong positions in well-funded professional markets 
•
 
Increasing international opportunities
Read more in 
our Chief Executive’s Review
12 Investor website 
Our corporate website at  
www.wilmington.co.uk contains a wide  
range of information of interest to institutional  
and private investors including:
•	 Latest news and press releases
•	 Annual Reports and investor presentations
STRATEGIC REPORT – PAGES 04 TO 33
Financial and Operational Highlights 04
Group at a Glance 06
Chairman’s Statement 08
Question and Answer with Pedro Ros 10
03
COMPANY OVERVIEW
Giving a comprehensive 
picture of the business and 
where it is going
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Our People and Case Studies 16
Corporate, Environment and Social Responsibility 24
12
BUSINESS REVIEW
A review of operational 
performance in 2013/2014
Operational Targets 26
Financial Review 28
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 30
Board of Directors 36
Directors’ Report 38
Corporate Governance Report 40
Audit Committee Report 46
Nomination Committee Report 48
Directors’ Remuneration Report 49
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 64
Independent Auditors’ Report   68
Financial Statements   72
Pro Forma Five Year Financial Summary 113
Shareholder Notes 114
Advisers and Corporate Calendar 115
26
OUR PERFORMANCE
A review of Financial 
performance in 2013/2014
35
OUR GOVERNANCE
Presents information on the 
Board and its activities and 
those of the Committees
67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fully audited results 
for the year
CONTENTS
Getting around this report
Read more in this 
Bond Solon
18
Read more online 
www.wilmington.co.uk
www.wilmington.co.uk
01
Stock Code: WIL  Talent, expertise, 
professionalism 
and commitment
Our People
We are committed to developing our people, to realising their 
potential and investing in training and development initiatives. We 
encourage a continuous development ethos that is underpinned 
by tailored development across our business.
Read more in 
Our People 
16
03
STRATEGIC REPORT
Giving a comprehensive 
picture of the business and 
where it is going.
04  Financial and Operational Highlights
Strengthening the quality of our income streams.
06  Group at a Glance
Continued expansion of the Group’s global  
income streams.
08  Chairman’s Statement
Building a higher quality business.
10  Question and Answer with Pedro Ros
Find out more about our incoming Chief Executive,  
Pedro Ros. Strengthening the quality  
of our income streams
FINANCIAL AND  
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Group Revenue £m
90.0 +6%
(2013: 85)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
90
85
85.3
83.8
78.4
Adjusted EBITA
1
 £m
18.7 +11%
(2013: 16.9)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
18.7
16.9
15.7
15.8
15.6
Adjusted Profit before tax £m
16.6 +13% 
(2013: 14.7)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
16.6
14.7
13.2
12.9
12.6
Profit before tax £m
8.6 +13% 
(2013: 5.1)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
8.6
5.1
6.3
6.1
7.3
Adjusted EBITA margins 
improved to
20.8%
(2013: 19.8%)
Adjusted Earnings per Share
14.79p +13%
(2013: 13.06)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
14.79
13.06
11.71
11.38
10.16
Basic Earnings per Share
7.59p +82%
(2013: 4.17p)
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
7.59
4.17
5.81
5.20
5.38
Financial Highlights
Notes
1. Adjusted EBITA – see note 2 to the financial statements.
2. Adjusted EBITA margins – Adjusted EBITA divided by Revenue.
3. Adjusted Profit before Tax – see note 2 to the financial statements. 
4. Adjusted Earnings per Share – see note 9 to the financial statements.
5. Net debt : EBITDA – Net debt divided by Adjusted EBITDA – see note 2 to  
 the financial statements.
Net debt: EBITDA  
reduces to
1.6 times
(2013: 1.8 times)
Final dividend 
increased to
3.7p
(2013: 3.5p)
Total dividend
7.3p
(2013: 7.0p)
04
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Operational Highlights
•	 Appointment of new Group Chief Executive
•	 Strong momentum from Pensions & Insurance and  
Banking & Compliance
•	 Subscription and repeatable information sales at 79% of  
total revenue (2013: 79%)
•	 Growing international revenues; now 37% of total revenue 
(2013: 32%) 
•	 Successful acquisition and integration of Compliance Week
Current Trading
•	 Trading in line with management expectations, outlook for 2015 
remains unchanged
Read more in 
Chief Executive’s Review
12
Read more in 
Operational Targets
26
“Our strategy has been to 
sytematically transform Wilmington 
into a high quality information, 
compliance and education 
provider servicing 
major professional 
markets. ”
Charles Brady 
Chief Executive
Well positioned for the next 
stage in the Group’s evolution
www.wilmington.co.uk
05
STRATEGIC REPORT
Stock Code: WIL Continued expansion of the 
Group’s global income streams
GROUP AT  
A GLANCE
The Group’s continued overseas acquisition trail has increased further the income 
streams that originate outside of the UK. This diversifies the Group’s offering and 
helps to establish a solid platform for further expansion.
1
9
12
6
8
11
2
3
10
4
5
7
Revenue
£17.4m
(2013: £19.3m)
Sector  
The division provides training, 
conferences, professional support 
services and information including 
legal continuing professional 
development (CPD), expert witness 
training, databases, magazines and 
specialist reports.
Read more on 
Bond Solon
18
Principal Businesses   
– Ark & Legal Information
–  Central Law Training 
(‘CLT’)
–  Central Law Training 
Scotland
– Bond Solon
– La Touche
Revenue
£13.7m
(2013: £13.1m)
Sector  
This division includes Agence 
de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), 
the French language medical 
news agency, Binley’s, the UK 
healthcare information business, 
and NHiS, a provider of business 
intelligence and data analysis to the 
pharmaceutical industry.
Principal Businesses   
– APM
– Binley’s
– NHiS
Healthcare Legal
Revenue
£21.9m
(2013: £16.6m)
Sector
The Banking & Compliance 
division provides corporate finance 
and capital markets training and 
accredited programmes in anti-
money laundering, compliance, 
wealth management, financial 
crime and trust management 
along with subscription information 
and events. This division serves 
primarily tier one banks, the 
international financial services 
industry and major multinational 
companies.
Read more on 
Compliance week
20
Principal Businesses   
–  Inter national Compliance 
Training (‘ICT’)
– AMT
– Compliance Week
– CLT International
Revenue
£17.0m
(2013: £14.6m)
Sector 
This division, which includes Axco, 
Pendragon, Inese and International 
Company Profile (‘ICP’), 
provides in-depth regulatory and 
compliance information, market 
intelligence, events, training, 
analysis and workflow tools for the 
international insurance markets 
and the UK pensions industry.
Principal Businesses
– Axco
– Pendragon
– Inese
– ICP
Pensions & Insurance (‘P&I’) Banking & Compliance (‘B&C’)
Revenue
£9.6m
(2013: £10.9m)
Sector  
This division includes our Data 
Suppression and Fraud Prevention 
services as well as our Charities, 
Fund Management and Film & TV 
services
Principal Businesses   
– Charities Choice
– Caritas
– Smee & Ford
– Millennium
– AP Pensions
– Film & TV
Revenue
£10.4m
(2013: £10.6m)
Sector  
The Accountancy division is 
the leading provider of training, 
technical support and marketing 
services to UK Accountancy firms 
and accountants in commerce and 
industry.
Principal Businesses   
– Mercia
– Mercia Ireland
– Practice Track
Business Intelligence (‘BI’) Accountancy
06
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW
Revenue Analysis
Revenue can be analysed by segment as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
● Pensions & Insurance 19%
● Banking & Compliance 24%
● Healthcare 15%
● Legal 19%
● Business Intelligence 11%
● Accountancy 12%
 
Revenue can be analysed by geography as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
● UK 63%
● Europe (excluding the UK) 17%
● North America 12%
● Rest of the World 8%
GROUP AT A GLANCE
1
9
12
6
8
11
2
3
10
4
5
7
The Group has its  
main offices in the  
following locations:
Key
 
1
 
Belfast
 
2
 
Birmingham
 
3
 
Boston
 
4
 
Chicago
 
5
 
Dubai
 
6
 
Dublin
 
7
 
Hong Kong
 
8
 
London (Head Office)
 
9
 
Madrid
 
10
 
New York
 
11
 
Paris
 
12
 
Singapore
The Group’s largest  
revenue generating 
countries are:
Key
 
Austria
Bermuda 
Channel Islands 
France
Germany
Hong Kong (China) 
Japan
Morocco
Republic of Ireland 
Russia
Singapore
Spain
Switzerland
UK
United Arab Emirates 
US
www.wilmington.co.uk
07
STRATEGIC REPORT
Stock Code: WIL I am pleased to present my report on Wilmington’s results for the 
twelve months ended 30 June 2014. It has been a successful year in 
the ongoing development of Wilmington as we continue to make good 
progress and have again achieved solid earnings growth.
I am pleased that the Group has produced another year of solid growth 
in adjusted profit. This is testament to our strategy of building a quality 
business focused on providing information, compliance and education 
to professional markets. In an increasingly regulated world we are seeing 
many exciting opportunities. Wilmington’s businesses, which have 
become increasingly digital and international, are based on long-term 
client relationships with a high proportion of subscription and repeatable 
revenues.
Revenues in the year ended 30 June 2014 increased by 6% to £90.0m 
(2013: £85.0m). Adjusted EBITA was up 11% (£1.8m) to £18.7m (2013: 
£16.9m), reflecting strong organic growth in our Banking & Compliance 
and Pensions & Insurance divisions. I am also pleased to report a maiden 
profit contribution of £0.9m from Compliance Week (acquired in August 
2013) and a full year profit contribution from Inese and NHiS acquired 
earlier in 2013. The growth from our higher margin businesses, combined 
with the discontinuation of low margin activities and tight control of 
overheads has resulted in an improvement of 100 bpts in Adjusted EBITA 
Margin to 20.8% (2013: 19.8%). The growth in Adjusted EBITA combined 
with a reduced interest charge translated into Adjusted Profit before Tax 
up a pleasing 13% (£1.9m) to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m).
Although the year was successful overall, as previously indicated we have 
experienced challenging trading conditions in our Legal and Healthcare 
divisions which both suffered from adverse competitive pressures and as 
a result saw some underlying revenue and profit decline. In response we 
have made significant changes to the respective management teams and 
repositioned and strengthened our client offerings.
At 30 June 2014 net debt was broadly unchanged on the prior year 
at £33.7m (2013: £33.4m) despite investing £7.3m of net cash on the 
acquisition of Compliance Week at the beginning of the year. Gearing as 
calculated by Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA has reduced to 1.6 times 
(2013: 1.8 times) and Cash Conversion
6
 remained strong at 108%  
(2013: 115%).
In the year we have invested in a number of initiatives designed to 
enhance the quality of our prospects. I reported in February that the 
Group is investing in Salesforce.com
©
, as a new Group-wide CRM. 
In doing so we are taking the opportunity to review and improve all of 
the processes which operate across our businesses to establish best 
practice and maximise efficiency. These reviews and investments will 
provide the foundation for future development, materially enhance the 
way in which we interact with our customers and transform the way we 
run our businesses. These projects are progressing well.
Acquisitions
In August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week for £7.3m in cash. This 
investment is consistent with our strategy of growth through selective 
value adding acquisitions. It also increases our exposure to the growing 
corporate risk management and compliance markets as well as giving us 
a significantly larger presence in North America. 
Compliance Week is the leading provider of governance, risk and 
compliance information and events for public companies and large 
enterprises primarily in the US. Compliance Week has started to work 
with other Wilmington Group companies, providing access to their North 
American customers and markets as well as opportunities for developing 
new revenue streams. Wilmington is well placed to support Compliance 
Week’s ambitions to grow outside of the US and in October 2013 the 
Group successfully launched ‘Compliance Week Europe’ in Brussels.
Building a higher 
quality business
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
“The Group is well 
positioned to move to  
the next stage of its 
development; we have 
wider geographical 
presence, and invested 
in new strategic 
systems. ”
Mark Asplin  
Chairman
08
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Business Strategy
Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by delivering sustainable and 
growing profits from servicing the information, compliance and education 
requirements of the global professional business markets.
We continue to progress our strategic aims of moving towards 
higher quality and more sustainable income streams. Revenue from 
subscriptions and repeatable revenue were maintained at 79% of Group 
turnover (2013: 79%).
In addition, we have actively sought to increase our income streams from 
outside the UK where we see good prospects for long-term sustainable 
growth in many of the major professional markets we operate in. Revenue 
outside the UK has grown to 37% of total revenue compared to 32% 
last year. Alongside cost savings and product development which have 
already been implemented this should result in further progress being 
made in 2014/15. 
This strategy has delivered a portfolio of businesses with a significant 
proportion of revenues derived from subscriptions to products which 
disseminate content-rich, high-value information digitally along with 
certificated education and compliance programmes. Tighter regulatory 
control and more complex legislation in many of our key markets will 
continue to drive the demand for our products and services globally.
Board Changes
As reported earlier this year, Charles J Brady (‘Charlie’) has announced 
his intention to retire as Chief Executive. At the request of the Board 
Charlie has agreed to stay on in a part time capacity as an Executive 
Director and to continue in his role in our Banking & Compliance division 
as Chairman of the International Compliance Association (‘ICA’). Charlie 
has been a part of the ICA since its inception 12 years ago. We are 
pleased that he has agreed to continue to assist in the development of 
our growing international compliance training business.
We undertook a rigorous process to find a successor to Charlie, 
supported by external recruitment consultants and led by the Nomination 
Committee. I am delighted that Pedro Ros has joined the Board and will 
take Wilmington to the next level in its development as our new Chief 
Executive. Pedro is a highly experienced executive who previously held 
senior Board positions at WPP plc and TNS plc. Pedro brings to the 
Group a wealth of international acquisition, market research and social 
media experience together with a proven ability to grow information and 
professional services businesses. 
I would now like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Board to 
formally thank Charlie for his leadership over the last 12 years and for 
handing over the business in such a strong position as his legacy. Charlie 
spearheaded Wilmington’s digital transformation, shifting the Group from 
a predominantly print based trade magazine publisher to the multinational 
digital provider of high quality information compliance and education it is 
today. Charlie will ensure an orderly handover to Pedro and will step down 
as Chief Executive on the 1 October 2014.
Pedro, working with the executive management team and the Board is 
currently undertaking a review of our business and will provide an update 
in December 2014. I am confident that he will bring a new perspective 
and fresh ideas, all of which should make for an exciting future.
Richard Cockton, the Company Secretary, has also indicated that he will 
retire at the AGM in November 2014. I am delighted to announce that 
Linda Wake will become Company Secretary in succession to Richard, 
whilst maintaining her role as Deputy Finance Director. On behalf of myself 
and the Board I would like to thank Richard for his excellent contribution 
to the Group, both as Company Secretary and as Chief Accountant over 
the past 16 years.
Dividend
I am proud of the Group’s record of maintaining its dividend over the 
recent years. It reflects our confidence in the strategy and resilience of 
our business models. The improved financial performance has reflected in 
increased dividend cover.
7
 I am pleased to confirm that the final dividend 
for this year will be 3.7p (2013: 3.5p) per share making a total dividend of 
7.3p (2013: 7.0p) per share for the year an increase of 4%. The dividend 
cover following for this year is 2.0 times (2013: 1.9) and it is the Board’s 
intention to maintain its progressive dividend policy whilst ensuring that a 
suitable dividend cover is maintained.  
The final dividend of 3.7p per share will be paid on 10 November 2014 to 
shareholders on the share register as at 17 October 2014.
Wilmington’s People
As a digital information, compliance and education company, operating 
in dynamic and competitive markets, we are fundamentally reliant on 
the quality and professionalism of our people. I would once again like to 
express my own and my fellow Board members’ appreciation of the hard 
work and dedication of our people.
Outlook and Current Trading
I am pleased to report that the new financial year has started in line with 
our expectations.
The Group is well positioned to move to the next stage of its 
development; we have widened our geographical presence, strengthened 
our back office and operational management teams and invested in new 
strategic systems. The business continues to offer good opportunities for 
us to generate attractive returns over the long term.
The macro economic climate is still changing slowly for the better and 
the Group is in a good position to take advantage of this. We are seeing 
tighter regulatory control and more complex legislation implemented in 
our key markets and remain confident that these changes will continue to 
drive the demand for our products and services globally. 
Mark Asplin  
Chairman 
17 September 2014
Notes
6. Cash conversion – see note 28 to the financial statements.
7. Dividend cover – Adjusted Earnings per Share divided by the Dividends in respect of the year.
www.wilmington.co.uk
09
STRATEGIC REPORT
Stock Code: WIL What attracted you to Wilmington?
Pedro: My first impressions of Wilmington were very positive. I saw 
a strong company, growing and actively acquisitive, with a highly 
capable management team. The Group had successfully managed its 
transition from print to digital, and there was clear potential for continued 
development and growth.
I saw in particular opportunities in continued focus on the development 
of high-value insight products that meet clients’ evolving needs; in 
implementing a class-leading digital strategy; and in continuing to identify 
value-additive acquisition targets, particularly in international markets.
These opportunities are directly in line with the Group’s business strategy 
of servicing the information, compliance and education requirements of 
professional business markets, while increasing income streams from 
outside the UK. Today having had a chance to look in more detail my 
belief in Wilmington’s potential is, if anything, even stronger.
Read more in 
Business Review
12
Where does your experience align most closely with the 
Group’s objectives?
Pedro: Wilmington’s management team has achieved excellent results 
over the years. I bring to the table substantial experience of leading 
international businesses in related markets; I have a track record of 
initiating and completing acquisitions that deliver exceptional growth.
I have worked in many different geographies, running successful 
organisations in the business-intelligence, market-information and 
business-to-business knowledge sectors. I enjoy leading teams, setting 
clear objectives and motivating people to achieve exceptional results.
My passion for new technologies and digital innovation will be more 
evident as we shape the Group’s future direction. Achieving our 
demanding objectives for the coming years requires attracting and 
retaining the very best talent and I will continue to promote Wilmington as 
an employer of choice.
Following your appointment in July, what do you consider the key 
strengths that will help Wilmington going forward?
Pedro: Wilmington’s content and information brands have made the 
transition from print to digital without any loss of reputation or brand 
strength. This leaves the Group in an excellent position to exploit the 
opportunities that their market positions present and to engage effectively 
and profitability with the professional communities that comprise the bulk 
of our client base.
Wilmington’s training businesses enjoy good market positions. These 
businesses are evolving into value added multi-format resources for our 
clients increasingly underpinned by technology.
Wilmington employs exceptional people across all areas of the Group. It 
is particularly noteworthy that many of the talented entrepreneurs who 
joined us at the time of their businesses’ acquisition have remained in 
post, often moving in time to more senior roles within the Group.
Media has been through an evolution with the transition from print 
to digital. Where do you think the industry will go next and what 
challenges the Group might face?
Pedro: The major challenge publishing businesses faced over the last 
decade was the transition from print to digital. We have successfully 
navigated this challenge and in doing so, we also created a much higher 
quality business based overwhelmingly around subscription information 
with only a small proportion of advertising revenues.
Over the coming years, in the face of data ubiquity or big data we will see 
increasing demands for tools which make sense of large and complex 
data and are likely to see some falling in demand for simple data supply. 
Wilmington has been preparing for this over recent years and much 
of what we sell is now imbedded into the workflow of our clients. We 
will continue to invest in the people, products and technology to take 
advantage of the opportunities which will arise in the future and to give 
our clients tools which will help them to achieve their objectives.
We know that you are a keen sports fan; can you share  
your sporting passions?
Pedro: For many years I played basketball and it became a way of life that 
I enjoyed to the full. It taught me a lot about team spirit and developing a 
strong work ethic; I also learned why it’s right sometimes to sacrifice your 
personal ambition for the good of the team.
I also love football and I have supported Espanyol, Barcelona’s less-
well-known team, since I was a child. Although Espanyol is not a strong 
contender in international club competitions, it is still my team and I 
remain an enthusiastic supporter even though I live in the UK.
My friends in London tell me that I should also choose an English team to 
support, but I’m undecided . . . and open to suggestions!
QUESTION AND ANSWER  
WITH PEDRO ROS
“My first impressions 
of Wilmington were 
very positive. I saw a strong 
company , growing and 
highly acquisitive with 
a highly capable 
management team. ”  
Pedro Ros  
Executive Director
10
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW
QUESTION AND ANSWER WITH PEDRO ROS
www.wilmington.co.uk
11
STRATEGIC REPORT
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Operational Review
Our strategy has been to systematically transform Wilmington into a high 
quality information, compliance and education provider servicing major 
professional markets.
By focusing on the fundamentals of our business we are able to improve 
the quality of our earnings. By investing in higher growth businesses and 
exiting from structurally challenged businesses and, in particular, reducing 
the drag from legacy print products we have created a Group with more 
predictable revenues, higher margins, growth prospects and strong 
cash flows. The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides the 
momentum for organic and acquisition investment. 
During the year, Wilmington produced another strong performance with 
Adjusted EBITA up 11% to £18.7m from £16.9m in 2013. Adjusted 
Profit before Tax was up 13% to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m). Adjusting 
for acquisitions, currency fluctuations and the termination of non-core 
activities, underlying Adjusted EBITA growth was 4%.
Group revenues in the year ended 30 June 2014 were up 6% to £90.0m 
(2013: £85.0m), reflecting full year contributions from the two acquisitions 
made in 2013 and the more recent acquisition of Compliance Week. 
Adjusting for acquisitions, currency fluctuations and the termination of 
non-core activities underlying revenue was up slightly on the same period 
last year.
The two largest divisions, Pensions & Insurance and Banking & 
Compliance, both continue to perform very well with strong organic 
revenue and contribution growth. It is in these areas where we see the 
best opportunities and where we are investing most heavily. However, as 
previously highlighted we have continued to witness more challenging 
conditions in our Healthcare and Legal divisions.
On 15 August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week, the leading provider 
of governance, risk and compliance information and events for public 
companies and large enterprises primarily in the US, which contributed 
£3.2m to revenue and £0.9m to operating profit in the year.
Pensions & Insurance 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
19% 31%
This division, which includes Axco, Pendragon, Inese and 
International Company Profile (‘ICP’) provides in-depth regulatory 
and compliance information, market intelligence, events, training, 
analysis and workflow tools for the international insurance markets 
and the UK pensions industry.
Divisional revenue grew 16% (£2.4m) helped by a full year revenue 
contribution of £2.7m (2013: £1.1m) from Inese, a provider of Spanish 
language subscription based publications, events and online services 
for the Spanish insurance market, which was acquired in March 2013. 
Underlying revenue growth was 7% after adjusting for adverse currency 
movements. As expected the divisional margin was a little lower than the 
previous year due to the full year impact of the acquisition of Inese which 
has operating profit margins of just under 30%.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
“By focusing on the fundamentals 
of our business we are able to 
improve the quality 
of our earnings. ”
Charles Brady  
Chief Executive
Transforming potential  
into performance
12
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Axco, which provides subscription information, market and regulatory 
intelligence, workflow tools and analytics for the multinational insurance 
market reported an 8% constant currency sales growth. Sales, which 
are driven predominantly by demand for in depth insurance market and 
regulatory information for all countries globally, benefited from increased 
demand for our new ‘Insight’ delivery platform which provides clients 
with tailored information which can be integrated into their own systems. 
We maintained our commitment to invest in and develop Axco content, 
products and services as well as continued investment in technology for 
content management and product delivery. In July 2014 we launched 
Insight Risk Manager, a regulatory intelligence service for the risk 
managers in multinational firms. This launch was supported by the major 
global insurance brokers and Airmic, the UK Risk Managers Association.
Pendragon, the leading digital regulatory information service for the 
UK pension industry, maintained its market leading position in the UK 
pensions market and recorded revenue growth of 4%. The business is 
investing in new delivery technology for launch later this year which will 
help strengthen the backbone of its information offerings for the future.
ICP , the leading provider of credit insurance reports for developing 
markets, has enjoyed another successful year with continued increase in 
demand for credit insurance reports, particularly in the Middle East. ICP 
recorded revenue growth of 9%.
Inese, which was acquired in March 2013, had a good year with 
revenue of £2.7m and a contribution of £0.7m to operating profits. This 
contribution of £0.7m when added to last year’s contribution of £0.4m 
represents a very satisfactory pre-tax return on our acquisition cost of 
£1.2m. The integration of Inese has gone very well and we are now 
focusing on investing in their products and services, which will include 
the implementation of new CMS and delivery technology based on the 
systems developed this year for Compliance Week.
Overall the division’s contribution grew by 11% to £6.8m (2013: £6.1m). 
Adjusting for acquisitions and currency fluctuations underlying profits 
were up 8% on 7% underlying revenue growth.
Banking & Compliance 
 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
24% 25%
The Banking & Compliance division provides corporate finance and 
capital markets training and accredited programmes in anti-money 
laundering, compliance, wealth management, financial crime and 
trust management along with subscription information and events. 
This division serves primarily tier one banks, the international 
financial services industry and major multinational companies.
The division continued to show strong revenue growth momentum 
with an increase of 32% compared to 2013 helped by £3.2m of new 
revenues from Compliance Week. Growth drivers included increased 
demand for Compliance and Anti Money Laundering programmes to 
international banks. Underlying revenue growth was 14% after adjusting 
for adverse currency movements. Margins grew from 21% to 25% helped 
by a contribution of £0.9m (28% margin) from Compliance Week and 
increased margins from our compliance training programmes. Underlying 
contribution grew by 34%.
International Compliance Training (‘ICT’) which provides accredited 
training programmes in Anti Money Laundering, Compliance and Financial 
Crime has continued to secure major in-house training assignments 
during the year and has a strong and growing pipeline of projects into 
the 2014/15 financial year. Growth drivers for this division include the 
provision of major anti-money laundering programmes to international 
banks. Demand for accredited face to face training is growing and we 
anticipate significant revenue growth from this area moving forward. 
We also continue to see opportunities in emerging markets with recent 
initiatives in Malaysia and Poland. To support this revenue growth we are 
investing in significantly more training and administrative capacity. 
The financial year 2013/14 was a record year for Adkins Matchett & Toy 
Group (‘AMT’), which provides corporate finance and capital markets 
training to major international investment banks. AMT saw revenue grow 
10% and contribution up 9% on 2013. AMT has benefited from significant 
investments in its client offerings and is increasingly using technology to 
support and supplement its core face to face courses. Initiatives included 
a cross divisional Massive Online Open Course (‘MOOC’) system for a 
global client covering fundamental banking skills. Elsewhere AMT Online 
is now an integral part of client offerings allowing for structured online self-
study, complete assessments and online exams with detailed feedback 
and reporting to the learning and development function.
AMT has had an excellent start to the 2014/15 financial year with its 
graduate entrant training for investment banks in its main centres of New 
York, Hong Kong and London. As AMT generates 50% of its revenue in 
the first quarter of the financial year this again bodes well for the rest of 
the year.  
Compliance Week has integrated well into the business since its 
acquisition in August and the redevelopment of its key content, 
management and delivery technology has been successfully completed. 
With the assistance of some of our UK based businesses Compliance 
Week also launched their first event outside of the US with the inaugural 
‘Compliance Week Europe’ which was held in October 2013 in Brussels. 
www.wilmington.co.uk
13
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
Healthcare 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
15% 13%
This division includes Agence de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), the 
French language medical news agency, Binley’s, the UK healthcare 
information business, and NHiS, a provider of business intelligence 
and data analysis to the pharmaceutical industry.
The division has experienced challenging market conditions in the 
period and although revenue was up 5% (£0.6m) adjusting for currency 
fluctuations and the full year of contribution from NHiS (acquired February 
2013) of £2.2m (2013: £0.9m) underlying revenue was down 6%. 
Contribution was maintained at the same levels as 2013 but underlying 
profits were down £0.3m (11%). 
APM has had another strong year with underlying revenue up 3%. APM 
has one of the highest proportions of subscription income in the Group 
at over 95%, with renewal rates also in excess of 95%. All of APM’s 
revenues are delivered digitally. Despite a difficult economic backdrop in 
France, the quality of APM’s editorial content has ensured its continued 
growth.
Binley’s underlying revenue was down 12% (£0.8m) due mainly to the 
fall-off in lower margin mailing services as reported in our half year 
results and the reduction in expenditure by some of our pharmaceutical 
clients. The business mitigated the impact on its profits by reducing its 
associated overhead base to offset some of the revenue loss. Onmedica, 
our permissioned GP email market access service, had a good year with 
revenue up 13% albeit from a relatively small base.
NHiS, a provider of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools 
and other services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK, which was 
acquired in February 2013, recorded revenue of £2.2m. NHiS has seen 
a shift towards consultancy led analytical assignments over the last few 
months as our clients seek deeper insight into the changing requirements 
of the NHiS. We are investing in the next generation of data visualisation 
subscription products as well as developing integrated solutions with 
Binley’s to our major pharmaceutical clients. We are also exploring some 
potentially exciting international opportunities where the NHiS technology 
and processes are very compatible. 
During the year we have significantly strengthened the Healthcare 
management team, with five senior appointments. I am optimistic that this 
team will bring new momentum and expertise to the division.
Legal 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
19% 10%
The division provides training, conferences, professional support 
services and information including legal continuing professional 
development (CPD), expert witness training, databases, magazines 
and specialist reports.
As previously indicated the Legal Division’s revenue was reduced by 10% 
(£1.9m) in the year. Underlying revenue decline was 8% adjusting for the 
disposal of Ark Australia in 2013. 
Central Law Training has continued to experience difficult trading 
conditions in its legal CPD courses. Legal CPD training is undergoing 
significant changes with the regulations governing minimum CPD 
requirements being relaxed by the Solicitors’ Regulatory Authority. This 
will mean that solicitors will, over the next 18 months, have to reassess 
how they undertake CPD to ensure that they are “Competent”. We 
believe that this change may bring positive future opportunities for the 
Group, but will also result in a period of less activity whilst solicitors 
reassess their training objectives and requirements. We have also 
experienced strong price competition and have seen the exit of some 
competitors from the market. Legal CPD revenue represents less than 
30% of the overall division’s turnover.
Central Law Training’s course programmes have been modified to reflect 
current market conditions. We have also changed the management team, 
with a number of executives leaving the Group. New appointments have 
been made, including the MD of Bond Solon taking over as Divisional MD 
and the promotion of new senior executives appointed at Central Law 
Training. These changes inter alia resulted in reorganisation costs  
of £0.2m.
Other than legal CPD the division has performed well. We have seen 
good growth in Bond Solon, our witness familiarisation business, which 
enjoyed a record sales year with revenue up 7% in the UK and 13% in 
Ireland. We have also seen a 27% increase in revenue from our Scottish 
legal training business.
Overall, despite the £1.9m (10%) decrease in revenue the impact on 
contribution from the division was mitigated due to good cost control to 
show a reduction of £0.6m. Margins had dropped slightly to 13%.
14
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Business Intelligence 
 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
11% 11%
This division includes our Data Suppression and Fraud Prevention 
services as well as our Charities, Fund Management and Film & TV 
services.
Over recent years the division has undergone the most significant 
transformation of all our businesses, with the transition from a print and 
advertising based business to digital services, subscription information 
products and workflow tools.
Overall revenue was down 12% (£1.3m) but £0.8m of this reduction was 
due to exiting non-core activities including the low margin list brokerage 
service operated by Millennium. As previously reported we are seeing the 
expected decline in legacy print revenues being partially offset by growth 
of new, higher margin digital businesses. This has allowed us to increase 
overall margins from 23% to 26%.
The remainder of the division — our fund data, charities, data 
suppression, fraud prevention services and legacy notification businesses 
— have seen underlying stable revenue and improved profit performance. 
Overall contribution was maintained at £2.5m.
Accountancy 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
12% 10%
The Accountancy division is the leading provider of training, 
technical support and marketing services to UK Accountancy firms 
and accountants in commerce and industry.
Overall revenues declined by 1% in what was expected to be a quiet year 
in terms of legislation and regulation change. We saw a slight drop off 
in face to face training as a result. We are very pleased that despite the 
reduction in revenue contribution has been maintained at last year’s levels 
as a result of good cost control.
A growing percentage of the division’s revenue is generated from 
technical and marketing support for accountancy clients. Technical 
support initiatives include our market leading accountancy firm website 
platform and SEM solutions optimised for specialist accountancy 
practices.
Regulation and deregulation provide opportunities in the Accountancy 
market. With audit exemption limits continuing to rise and the introduction 
of micro-entity accounting simplification this is likely to be a constraining 
factor on short term revenue growth. However, offsetting this are 
opportunities from the implementation of IFRS to UK entities and the 
demand for more sophisticated technical and marketing support.  
Operating profits and margins were maintained at £2.1m and 20 percent 
respectively.  
Group Overheads
Group overheads, which include Board and head office salaries as well as 
unallocated central overheads, increased by 5% to £3.3m.
Charles J Brady  
Chief Executive 
17 September 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
www.wilmington.co.uk
15
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Our People
Integral to Wilmington’s growth and success is the talent, expertise, 
professionalism and commitment of our people. During the year we have 
continued to build towards our goals of becoming an employer of choice 
and ensuring we remain a great place to work. Our dynamic changing 
markets continue to present challenges and in order to achieve our 
growth plans we are committed to ensuring we attract and retain the right 
and best talent.
Talent management is a key priority. We are committed to developing 
our people, to realising their potential and investing in training and 
development initiatives. We encourage a continuous development ethos 
that is underpinned by tailored development across our businesses.
We respond appropriately to employment legislation and regulatory 
requirements across our increasingly international Group. Last year 
investment was committed to update our HR systems and we have 
successfully implemented auto enrolment in the year. Compliance with 
the Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation continues to be an on-going 
priority and training on Wilmington policies and procedures is delivered to 
all staff using Bond Solon’s on line training platform.
CASE STUDY
INTERNATIONAL COMPANY PROFILE – 
LEADERS IN A GLOBAL NICHE 
INFORMATION MARKET
Established in 1982, International Company Profile (ICP) 
was set up to provide credit reports on companies in 
emerging markets.
It has grown into one of the key credit reporting agencies in the 
world and specialises in regions such as the Middle East and 
Eastern Europe which lack the coverage of larger company 
information providers. ICP reports provide our customers in the 
global credit insurance industry with information on company 
ownership, management, legal status, history, operations, financial 
performance and credit appraisal. ICP services its global client 
base through offices in London and Dubai along with specialist 
researchers operating in many countries across the world.
ICP has a multilingual research team with 15 languages spoken 
including French, Spanish, Polish, German, Croatian, Russian, Hindi, 
Gujarati, Turkish, Arabic and Portuguese. 
The Managing Director and senior team have all been with ICP for 
over 15 years. The team’s unique experience and deep knowledge 
of specialist credit reporting help to maintain ICP’s reputation as the 
market leader in its sector.
OUR PEOPLE 
AND CASE STUDIES
Committed to 
developing our people
16
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR PEOPLE
17
Stock Code:WIL www.wilmington.co.uk CASE STUDY
BOND SOLON
Cleaning up in the 
Regulatory and 
Enforcement 
Training Market
In January 2014 Bond Solon won 
a five year contract to deliver a 
comprehensive range of legal and 
investigative training courses for 
the Environment Agency (‘EA’). The 
training programmes are being rolled 
out to approximately 1,500 of their 
staff who have regulatory/enforcement 
responsibilities. As statutory warranted 
officers, without this training EA staff are 
unable to carry out their duties.
Bond Solon were successful in winning the contract based on a 
number of factors including their reputation as the leading provider of 
Enforcement training and qualifications in the UK and their position as 
the training provider for the majority of central government agencies. 
In particular, they were influenced by Bond Solon’s strong presence 
across DEFRA agencies including the Water Services Regulation 
Authority, Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories, Centre for 
Environment, Fisheries and Environment Research Agency, The Food 
and Environment Research Agency, the Rural Payments Agency and 
the Drinking Water Inspectorate. 
The EA were also impressed with Bond Solon’s ability to design 
and contextualise the training programmes by fully incorporating the 
EA’s range of enforcement and regulatory work, strategy, powers, 
procedures and technological resources. This means that each 
training solution is fully supported by a series of thematic case studies 
and exercises, practical scenarios and course materials which fully 
reflect the day-to-day enforcement work of their staff.
Over 16 different bespoke training programmes are being designed 
ranging from two days to eight days in duration covering a wide range 
of topics including Investigative Interviewing, Evidence Gathering, 
Search and Seizure, Courtroom Skills and Senior Investigating Officers 
Training. A number of these courses are already being rolled out 
across England at a number of EA sites.  
This contract strengthens Bond Solon’s position as the leading 
provider of Enforcement Training and Qualifications in the UK working 
extensively across both central and local government. STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CASE STUDIES
Pictured 
The Bond Solon team, led by  
Piers Lawson (far left).
www.wilmington.co.uk
19
Stock Code: WIL
CASE STUDY Successful acquisition and 
integration of an overseas 
business
In August 2013 the Group completed 
the acquisition of Boston based 
Compliance Week (‘CW’), the leading 
governance, risk and compliance 
(‘GRC’) information and event provider 
to the US corporate market.
CW is a business that we had tracked for a number of years as it 
built a very successful digital subscription business based around 
compliance news and information for large US corporations and the 
companies who support and advise them.
Over a number of years CW had also developed its main US 
conference, held in May each year in Washington, into the leading 
annual event for senior compliance professionals in the US. It 
subsequently added a West Coast event serving the specialist needs 
of the technology dominated corporations in this region.
We considered the acquisition a great opportunity both to expand 
our compliance interests and also to gain greater access to the key 
US market for all of our businesses. We were fortunate to acquire a 
great team with the business including some of the leading experts on 
corporate compliance issues, many of whom had worked for CW for 
several years. 
The last year has seen a period of intense activity and investment as 
we successfully redesigned and redeveloped all of the technology 
and systems used by CW to manage its business, its content and to 
deliver digital services to its customer base.
Now that we have strengthened the CW platform we plan to focus 
on the development of new information services to provide to CW’s 
audience of large US Corporations to support them in increasingly 
complex compliance pressures.
With the assistance of some of our UK based businesses CW also 
launched their first event outside of the US with the inaugural ‘CW 
Europe’ which was held in October 2013 in Brussels. The event was a 
great success and a larger event is taking place in Brussels in October 
2014. We will continue to look at opportunities for further international 
expansion for both the events and the information offerings. 
Our investment in CW has also provided a platform to support other 
Group activities as we have established corporate, financial and 
HR structures and systems. Our Axco division has already taken 
advantage of the opportunity to base a new senior US employee 
at the Boston office and we are confident that we will see further 
development and growth from this base over the coming years.
CASE STUDY 
COMPLIANCE WEEK CASE STUDIES
STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
www.wilmington.co.uk
21
Stock Code: WIL
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY 
SALESFORCE.COM
©
Supporting future growth
Major investment in Salesforce.com
©
, a 
CRM system to provide a single, world 
class platform for all of our businesses
Over recent years the Group has made significant investments to 
ensure that we have the technology to develop and deliver market 
leading digital services to our customers.
However, the evolution of the Group’s divisions has meant that we 
currently use a number of different systems for the management of 
customer databases, CRM, invoicing, management reporting and 
associated systems.
As Wilmington has become an increasingly focused business the 
benefits of combining, coordinating and harmonising our approach 
to our markets has grown. In 2014 we therefore took the decision to 
embark on an ambitious, multi-year project to deploy a single, global 
CRM system which replace all of our legacy systems and provide a 
single platform of the highest quality.
In addition to replacing our CRM technology we are taking the 
opportunity to review and improve all of the processes and related 
systems which we operate across our businesses to establish best 
practice, maximum efficiency and automation in the way we run our 
business. The resulting efficiency savings will mitigate the costs of 
deploying Salesforce.com
©
 but the principle benefit is a common 
platform from which to support future growth. We are also taking the 
opportunity to review, cleanse and expand the databases which drive 
our CRM.
Our Salesforce.com
©
 instance will also integrate with our other 
customer facing and administrative technology. Compliance Week 
was the first division to deploy the new solution and it is integrated into 
the subscriber website (managing customer access and preferences) 
and also into our email solution (generating automated customer 
communications). This is an ambitious project, and it will take a 
number of years to finalise but we have already begun to see the 
benefits in areas where it has been deployed. We are confident that 
it will eventually have a transformative impact on the way that we run 
our businesses. STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
www.wilmington.co.uk
23
Stock Code: WIL
CASE STUDY STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Wilmington seeks to be a socially responsible Group of businesses that 
have a positive impact on the communities within which it operates.
We seek to employ a workforce that reflects both the diversity of our 
customers and the communities where we have a presence. We do 
not discriminate on grounds of age, sex, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual 
orientation or disability. We strive to provide all our employees the 
opportunity to grow and develop whilst employed at Wilmington. This 
includes providing excellent working conditions, the latest technology 
and appropriate training and development to help and encourage our 
employees fulfil their potential.
Our apprentice and intern investments have also continued to grow 
during this time, across different businesses and key geographical 
locations, developing further the Group’s community and people 
investment over and above the commitment we make to our employees.
Wilmington continued to support in www.charitychoice.co.uk, a website 
which supports charities and raises awareness of their fundraising 
activities. The online donation service saw donations during the year of 
£881k for various charities.
Environmental policies
The Board recognises that Wilmington’s business has an impact on the 
environment, principally through the use of energy, waste generation, 
and paper use and print and production technologies. We are committed 
to reducing the impact wherever possible and to utilising sustainable 
materials and technology. We seek to ensure that Wilmington’s divisions 
are compliant with relevant environmental legislation and require, where 
possible, our suppliers and contractors to meet the same objectives. 
Furthermore, our progress towards a digitally based business is reducing 
our environmental impact. Accordingly whilst environmental issues are 
important we do not believe that they constitute a risk for the Group.
The Head of Facilities Management is responsible for managing and 
monitoring environmental issues across the Group.
Our policies are to:
•	 meet or exceed the requirements of current environmental legislation 
that relates to the Group;
•	 minimise energy and water usage in our buildings, vehicles and 
processes and improve the efficient use of those resources;
•	 apply the principles of continuous improvement in respect of air, water, 
noise and light pollution from our premises, and reduce any impacts 
from our operations on the environment and local community;
•	 minimise our waste and then reuse or recycle as much of it as possible;
•	 as far as possible, purchase products and services that do the least 
damage to the environment and encourage others to do the same;
•	 ensure environmental and energy performance issues are considered in 
the acquisitions, refurbishment, design, location and use of buildings;
•	 assess the environmental impact of any new processes of products we 
intend to introduce in advance;
•	 ensure understanding of our environmental policy internally and 
externally and communicate its performance on a regular basis, and 
encourage feedback;
•	 set and monitor KPIs for our environmental performance at least 
annually; and
•	 update our environmental policy regularly.
Paper
Paper is sourced from a chain of custody certified suppliers to ensure 
only sustainable raw materials are used within its production. The vast 
majority of paper is produced at mills with ISO 14001 accreditation and 
Environmental Management System (‘EMAS’) registration.
Printers
All our major print suppliers are ISO 14001 certified or encouraged to 
work towards a minimum of this standard. Many now also utilise FSC 
or PEFC chain of custody certification. All our printers work in a digital 
environment, with the resultant reduction in transport, courier and energy 
utilising activities.
CORPORATE, ENVIRONMENT  
AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Making a 
positive impact
24
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE, ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Packaging
For magazines we use recyclable polythene with a thickness of 25 
microns. Where possible we are also converting to exo-biodegradable 
and potato starch forms of polythene.
Offices
The Group’s activities are primarily based in office accommodation and, 
wherever practicable, the Group adopts energy saving policies. Any new 
and replacement air conditioning units being sourced from the energy 
efficient range and show a 70% saving in energy consumption. With 
regard to the office environment, the Group encourages the recycling 
of materials such as paper, cardboard, toners and cartridges wherever 
possible. The Group also ensures the correct disposal of electrical 
equipment and fluorescent tubes is compliant with the Waste Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment Directive (‘WEEE’).
Over the past few years, we have reduced our property portfolio by 
43,000 square feet, representing approximately a third of our previous 
occupancy space. We have also installed occupancy detection lighting 
and eco-friendly WCs and basin taps in a number of areas around  
the Group.
Travel
The introduction of video conferencing technology in the Group’s 
offices has significantly reduced the requirements for travel, particularly 
when dealing with overseas offices and clients. The success of training 
webinars has also seen the additional benefit of reducing delegate 
travel to venues. Wilmington is also continuing its cycle incentive 
incorporating the Cycle to Work scheme which is within the guidelines of 
the Government’s green travel plan. As part of the scheme Wilmington 
provides employees with a loan for cycle and safety equipment up to a 
maximum of £1,000. To further support the cycle scheme, Wilmington 
has also arranged for free cycle parking facilities for employees based in 
its London offices.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting
The release of greenhouse gases (GHG), notably carbon dioxide (CO2) 
generated by burning fossil fuels, has an impact on climate change 
which, either directly or indirectly, presents considerable risks both to 
the business and the planet. The Group is committed to monitoring and 
reducing its GHG emissions.
Global CO
2
 emissions data for period  
1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014
Thousand 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
Emissions from
Emissions from
Scope 1 – Direct CO
2
 emissions 66
Scope 2 – Indirect CO
2
 emissions 619
Total emissions
CO
2
 ratio (thousand tonnes of CO
2
 per employee 0.85
Methodology
Wilmington Group’s GHG emissions (detailed above) were calculated 
using activity data from the Group’s management accounting system 
(verified by third party supplier invoicing), and emission factors from 
Defra’s Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 for converting 
energy usage to carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2
e) emissions. We have 
followed the methodology in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition). The analysis has used an 
operational control approach – please note that this means that certain 
sites which have a service agreement for utilities have not been included 
in the footprint.
This assessment takes into account of all of the emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations 2013. We do not have any responsibility for any 
emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
www.wilmington.co.uk
25
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR PERFORMANCE
1. Adjusted Profit before Tax
This measure indicates the trading profits of the Group, after bank and 
interest charges, but before amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets and goodwill, adjusting items, the unwinding of discounts on the 
provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and share-
based payments. Amortisation of publishing rights, titles and benefits 
and impairment are non-cash technical adjustments which do not 
necessarily reflect the inherent change in value of assets. See note 2 for 
the calculation of Adjusted Profit before Tax.
In the year ended 30 June 2014, Adjusted Profit before Tax increased by 
13% to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m).
2. Adjusted Earnings per Share
This key measure indicates the underlying profit attributable to individual 
shareholders. It measures not only trading performance, but also the 
impact of treasury management, capital structure, bank and interest 
charges, as well as the efficient structuring of the Group to appropriately 
manage tax. Our business and financial strategies are directed at 
delivering consistent adjusted earnings per share growth and our 
incentive programmes are designed to support this strategy.
For the year ended 30 June 2014, Adjusted Earnings per Share increased 
by 13% to 14.79p per share (2013: 13.06p). The increase was due to 
better overall financial performance achieved by the businesses.
3. Cash Conversion
The quality of the operating profits is underpinned by the associated  
cash flow. The Group’s business is strongly cash generative; Operating 
Cash Flow for the year ended 30 June 2014 of £20.2m represented 
108% of adjusted operating profit before interest and amortisation (2013: 
£19.4m, 115%).
4. Free Cash Flow
8
Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of resources available for 
payment of the Dividend and for support of our acquisition strategy. 
Free Cash Flow, which is calculated after deduction from operating cash 
flow of capital expenditure, payment of corporation tax and payment of 
interest, increased by 7% to £13.2m (2013: £12.4m).
OPERATIONAL 
TARGETS
At a Group level, we have  
seven key financial and  
operational targets
Adjusted profit before tax £m
+13%
(2013: +11%)
16.6
14.7
13.2
2014 2013 2012
Free cash flow £m
+7%
(2013: +22%)
Cash conversion %
-7bp
(2013: +4bp)
Adjusted earnings per share p
+13%
(2013: +12%)
13.1
12.4
10.2
2014 2013 2012
108
115
111
2014 2013 2012
14.79
13.06
11.71
2014 2013 2012
26
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
At Divisional level we maintain a number of KPIs specific to the 
performance of each business within the division,
Each of the operating divisions monitors a number of key performance 
indicators. This year we delivered an improved performance against the 
majority of our financial and operational targets. By continuing to focus 
on these benchmarks, we have been able to concentrate on mitigating 
the adverse effects of the global recession and produce good results 
whilst establishing a more resilient and efficient platform to support future 
growth.
5. Consistent and Sustainable Revenue Streams
The disposal of non-core assets in recent years has allowed the Group 
to focus on a portfolio of assets based in key professional markets, with 
the emphasis on provision of information, compliance and education to 
these markets. This push towards more robust and sustainable revenue 
streams has resulted in a strong portfolio of offerings, which includes:
•	 data, information, intelligence and solution sales;
•	 professional education, training, events and services; and
•	 professional accreditation and assessment.
The Group has continued to increase the supply of its products and 
services online and digitally, but remains conscious of the needs of 
markets, which continue to prefer some products produced in hard copy 
format or in person. Our businesses are supported by management and 
delivery systems utilising appropriate technology. We have continued 
to invest considerable resources in the improvement of our operating 
systems and online services which will deliver benefits in the current year 
and beyond.
Group Turnover: subscriptions and repeatable revenue
79%
(2013: 79%)
Subscriptions and repeatable revenue represent 79% of Group turnover 
compared to 79% in the prior year.
6. Adjusted operating margin (‘Return on sales’)
Adjusted operating margin or return on sales (‘ROS’) is defined as 
Adjusted EBITA (see note 2) expressed as a percentage of revenue. 
During the year ended 30 June 2014 ROS was 20.8% compared to 
19.8% in the prior year.
Return on Sales: subscriptions and repeatable revenue
20.8%
(2013: 19.8%)
7. Return on equity (‘ROE’)
ROE is defined as the Adjusted Profit before Tax (see note 2) expressed 
as a percentage of the average equity attributable to the owners of the 
parent during the year. ROE was 31.9% for the year to 30 June 2014, 
compared to 28.5% in the prior year.
Return on equity
31.9%
(2013: 28.1%)
Notes
8.
 
Free cash flow – see note 28 to the financial statements.
www.wilmington.co.uk
27
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR PERFORMANCE
2014
£m
2013
£m
Change 
%
Revenue
90.0 85.0 6
Adjusted EBITA
18.7 16.9 11
Adjusted EBITA Margin 20.8
19.8
Adjusted results
Reference is occasionally made in this financial review to adjusted 
results. Adjusted results in the opinion of the Directors provide a more 
comparable indication of the Group’s underlying financial performance 
and exclude adjusting items set out in note 2. 
Revenue
Revenue for the twelve months to 30 June 2014 increased by £5.0m to 
£90.0m (2013: £85.0m). On a like-for-like basis (excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, foreign exchange and disposals) underlying revenue was up 
slightly.
Net operating expenses
Net operating expenses, excluding adjusting items, were £71.3m (2013: 
£68.2m), up 5% reflecting the impact of acquisitions made in 2013 and in 
the period.
Amortisation of Intangible assets
Amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software) increased 
from £6.1m to £6.3m reflecting the acquisitions of the businesses made 
in the period offset by assets which had been fully amortised in previous 
years. Also included in the 2013 comparative is £0.8m of accelerated 
amortisation in respect of intangibles within our Business Intelligence 
division.
Adjusting items
The Group incurred other adjusting items of £0.8m compared to a net 
cost of £1.3m in 2013. £0.4m of other adjusting items relate to costs 
of acquisitions made or aborted in the year and £0.1m in respect of the 
recruitment costs of the new Chief Executive. £0.2m of these costs were 
associated with a reorganisation of the Legal division.
Interest payable
Interest payable was down 5% from £2.3m to £2.1m supported by strong 
cash flow in the period. The Group had seen cash inflows associated with 
the sale of assets including a surplus freehold property at net book value 
for £0.7m, and strong operational cash inflows, offset by the acquisition 
of businesses and the purchase of minority interests. This resulted in net 
debt of £33.7m by the year end (2013: £33.4m). A dividend of £6.1m 
(2013: £5.9m) has been paid in the year.
Taxation
Taxation increased by £0.5m (37%) from £1.5m to £2.0m. The increase 
in the tax expense is due to larger deferred tax credits in 2013 and the 
non-tax deductibility of the impairment provision which is partly offset by 
the tax free property disposal in 2013.
The underlying tax rate which ignores the tax effects of adjusting items 
decreased from 24.7% to 24.0%. This reduction reflects inter alia the 
reduction in UK corporation tax rates during the year.
FINANCIAL 
REVIEW
“Revenue increased by £5.0m to 
£90.0m and operating profit was 
up from £7 .4m to £10.7m. ”
Anthony M Foye 
Chief Finance Officer
Transforming potential  
into performance
28
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Operating profit
Operating profit was up from £7.4m to £10.7m largely due to the 
impairment charge of £4.5m in 2013 (offset by the profit on disposal 
of property of £3.3m). Adjusted EBITA was up 11% at £18.7m (2013: 
£16.9m) and Adjusted EBITA margins were up 100 bpts to 20.8% (2013: 
19.8%). Acquisitions in the year contributed £0.9m to operating profits.
Profit before taxation 
Profit before taxation was up from £5.1m to £8.6m. This reflects higher 
operating profits and a small net reduction in finance costs. Adjusted 
Profit before Tax increased by 13% to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m). 
Earnings per share
Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share increased by 13% to 14.79p (2013: 
13.06p). Basic earnings per share increased to 7.59p from 4.17p and 
diluted earnings per share increased to 7.39p from 4.07p.
Goodwill 
Goodwill increased by £3.6m to £76.9m due to additions from 
acquisitions in the year (£4.0m) offset by exchange rate movements  
of £0.4m.
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets declined £2.7m reflecting amortisation, offset by £4.0m 
from acquisitions made in the year. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment decreased by £0.2m to £5.7m reflecting 
additions to tangible fixed assets of £0.9m (2013: £1.2m) offset by 
depreciation and disposals.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables within trade and other receivables increased by £0.7m 
compared to 30 June 2013 reflecting acquisitions made during the year.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables which include deferred income were up £1.4m 
compared to 30 June 2013 reflecting the increase in deferred income and 
acquisitions made in the year.
Subscriptions and deferred income, which represents revenue received 
in advance, increased by 6% from £18.6m in 2013 to £19.6m. Included 
in this category was £1.0m which related to Compliance Week acquired 
during the year. The underlying position was flat; however, subscription 
information subscriptions were up 5% offsetting declines in lower margin 
training revenue received in advance. 
Net debt
Net debt, which includes cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and 
bank overdrafts, was £33.7m (2013: £33.4m), an increase of £0.3m 
despite spending a net £7.3m in cash on acquisitions in the period. 
Operating cash flow and strong cash conversion supplemented by £0.7m 
from the disposal of a surplus freehold property helped towards the debt 
reduction. Free cash flow increased to £13.2m from £12.4m.
The net debt at 30 June represented just over half of our debt and 
overdraft facility of £65m.
Cash received on disposal of property
In October 2013 the Group disposed of one of its freehold properties for 
£0.7m in cash.
Treasury shares 
During the year 716,410 shares were reissued in settlement of shares 
vesting under the Group’s profit share plan and share option scheme. 
This resulted in a transfer to share capital at the weighted average cost of 
shares held in treasury. 
Dividend
It is the Board’s intention to pay a progressive dividend whilst ensuring 
a cover of at least two times the Group’s adjusted earnings per share 
over the dividend per share in respect of the year. A final dividend of 3.7p 
per share (June 2013 final 3.5p) will be paid on 10 November 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 17 October 2014.
Anthony M Foye  
Chief Finance Officer 
17 September 2014
www.wilmington.co.uk
29
Stock Code: WIL RISK MANAGEMENT AND 
INTERNAL CONTROL
STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR PERFORMANCE
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
AND UNCERTAINTIES
RISK DESCRIPTION TREND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
STAFF RECRUITMENT  
AND RETENTION
Wilmington is a people-based 
business; failure to attract or 
retain key employees could 
seriously impede future growth.

•	 Failure to recruit or retain key staff 
could lead to reduced innovation 
and progress in the business
•	 The Group operates a competitive remuneration 
package.
•	 Just as importantly, the Group operates a culture where 
each individual can maximise his or her potential.
•	 Management Development Programmes enhance the 
skills of executives and managers needed in their current 
and future roles.
•	 The introduction of a dedicated Recruitment Manager 
and ongoing evaluation processes will assist high quality 
hiring and development.
COMPETITION
The Group operates in highly 
competitive markets that are 
constantly challenging the 
boundaries of technological 
advances, regulation and 
legislation, and which have 
new competitors entering the 
market.

•	 Loss of market share due to 
changing markets
•	 Reduced financial performance 
arising from competitive threats
•	 By empowering and resourcing innovation in local 
operations to respond to changing market needs, the 
potential adverse effects of competition can be mitigated 
and growth can be maintained.
•	 The Group operates in specialised global niche markets 
offering high barriers to entry.
CYBER SECURITY/INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY/BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION
Group and operational 
management depend on timely 
and reliable information from 
our software systems. We 
seek to ensure continuous 
availability, security and 
operation of those information 
systems.

•	 Delay or impact on decision 
making through lack of availability 
of sound data 
•	 Reduced service to customers due 
to poor information handling or 
interruption of business
•	 Global threats to systems and 
critical information increase each 
year
•	 During the year Group has outsourced the hosting of all 
websites improving resiliency, efficiency and scalability.
•	 There is back-up built into Group-wide systems and we 
are increasingly using Cloud based solutions.
•	 We have a central team, Wilmington Group Support, to 
provide day to day IT & Systems support for users.
•	 We provide and assist Group companies with strategic 
IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security policies are 
used across the Group.
•	 We carry out regular IT audits and we have 
comprehensive IT systems monitoring in place.
•	 We have a comprehensive IT induction for employees 
to ensure they are aware of security risks and how to 
combat them.
•	 We regularly test our network and we have 
comprehensive IT disaster recovery solutions in place 
should we, in the unlikely event, suffer a disaster at an 
office or location.
   Lower risk     Higher Risk    No change
30
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
RISK DESCRIPTION TREND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
ACQUISITIONS
The identification and purchase 
of businesses which meet our 
demanding financial and growth 
criteria are an important part 
of our strategy for developing 
the Group, as is ensuring the 
new businesses are rapidly 
integrated into the Group.

•	 Failure to deliver expected results 
resulting from poor acquisition 
selection 
•	 Reduced financial performance 
arising from failure to integrate 
acquisitions into the Group 
•	 Unforeseen liabilities arising from 
a failure to understand acquisition 
targets fully
•	 We acquire businesses whose technology and 
markets we know well. The Executive Management 
Board together with Divisional Managing Directors  
(‘DMDs’) are responsible for finding and completing 
acquisitions in their business sectors, subject to Board 
approval, supported by central resources to search 
for opportunities. We employ detailed post-acquisition 
integration plans.
•	 Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination 
of in-house and external experts to ensure that a 
comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, legal and 
financial position of every target is obtained.
•	 Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which 
are value-enhancing from day one.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS
Group operations are subject 
to wide-ranging laws and 
regulations including business 
conduct, employment, 
environmental and health and 
safety legislation. There is also 
exposure to product litigation 
and contractual risk. The laws 
and regulations we are exposed 
to as our businesses expand 
around the world increase each 
year.

•	 Diversion of management 
resources creating opportunity 
costs 
•	 Penalties arising from breach of 
laws and regulations
•	 Loss of revenue and profit 
associated with contractual 
disputes
•	 The Group’s emphasis on excellent internal controls, 
high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality 
management resources and the strong focus on quality 
control over products and processes in each operating 
business help to protect us from product failure, litigation 
and contractual issues.
•	 Health and Safety policies, guidance and monthly 
reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing 
reporting and governance requirements and to 
enhance compliance. Our well-established policies on 
bribery and corruption have been maintained during 
the year to ensure continued compliance with best 
practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and 
externally, via appropriate clauses included in third-party 
agreements.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 
AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
STRATEGY
New products are critical to our 
organic growth and underpin 
our ability to earn high margins 
and high returns over the long 
term.
Protection of our intellectual 
property builds competitive 
advantage by strengthening 
barriers-to-entry. Our intangible 
resources include data, 
processes, technological 
know-how, branding and our 
workforce.

•	 Loss of market share resulting from 
product obsolescence and failure 
to innovate to meet customer 
needs
•	 Loss of market share resulting from 
a failure to protect key intellectual 
property
•	 New product development ‘best practice’ is shared 
between Group companies and return on investment 
of past and future innovation projects is tracked. This 
ensures that the collective experience and expertise of 
the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
•	 Large R&D projects, especially those which are 
capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that 
the Group’s significant projects are aligned to overall 
strategy. Such projects are overseen by the newly 
appointed Chief Technology Officer.
•	 Workforce quality and retention is a central objective. 
This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and 
grow within the business.
•	 Operating businesses are actively encouraged to 
develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
•	 Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the 
Group, inter alia, via the Wilmington Awards.
www.wilmington.co.uk
31
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
OUR PERFORMANCE
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
AND UNCERTAINTIES
RISK DESCRIPTION TREND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION
INFORMATION AVAILABILITY
Freely available information 
principally via the internet 
poses a potential risk for the 
Group. The risk resides largely 
with government agencies and 
not-for-profit organisations that 
may make information publicly 
available at no cost.

•	 Free to access or inexpensive 
information may compete directly 
with paid for, value added 
information supplied by the Group
•	 Wilmington offers enriched, value added data and 
information in innovative ways that can be read in an 
easy to use format.
DATA CONFIDENTIALITY
The Group is increasingly 
required to comply with strict 
privacy and data protection 
legislation.

•	 Adherence to an increasing 
compliance landscape can 
increase costs
•	 Failure to comply with the 
regulations could result in a fine 
and/or a loss of reputation
•	 The need to comply with the 
regulations can restrict the Group’s 
ability to create and utilise its 
databases.
•	 To ensure that the Group was compliant with the 
relevant data protection legislation, we commissioned 
an extensive external audit of the Group’s data 
management systems and we have adopted procedures 
to ensure compliance with best practice.
•	 We have a dedicated Data Compliance Manager who 
works alongside DMD’s to monitor our adherence to the 
regulations.
REMOTENESS OF OPERATIONS 
AND GLOBALISATION
A key operational risk emanates 
from remoteness of operations 
from Head Office and the 
increasing global spread of our 
businesses.

•	 Weakening of financial control and 
divergence from overall Group 
strategy in remote operations, 
leading to unexpected financial 
outcomes
•	 Failure to comply with local laws 
and regulations in unfamiliar 
territories, leading to legal or 
regulatory disputes
•	 Reputational risk 
•	 Control is exercised locally in accordance with the 
Group’s policy of autonomous management. We seek to 
employ local high quality experts.
•	 The Group’s acquisition model ensures retention of 
management and staff in acquired businesses meaning 
that local expertise is maintained.
•	 DMD’s ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled 
through an on-going review of the businesses. The right 
balance between autonomy and adherence to the overall 
objectives of the Group is a key function of the DMD’s.
•	 Regular visits by senior management, finance staff and 
internal audit support local control.
•	 Working with established local partners.
Other matters
The Group has no known issues relating to human rights matters. The welfare of all the Group’s stakeholders, including the community, is carefully 
considered to ensure that such parties are not adversely affected by the Group’s actions in the course of its day to day business.
The information forming the strategic report on pages 04 to 33 was approved and authorised for issue by the Board and signed on their behalf on  
17 September 2014.
Anthony M Foye  
Chief Finance Officer
32
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
33
Stock Code: WIL www.wilmington.co.uk  The next level  
of development
Chief Executive
New Chief Executive Pedro Ros brings experience of leading 
international businesses in related markets, and a track record 
of initiating and completing acquisitions that deliver exceptional 
growth.
Read more in 
Board of Directors
36
35
OUR GOVERNANCE
Presents information on the 
Board and its activities and 
those of the Committees.
36  Board of Directors
38  Directors’ Report
40  Corporate Governance Report
46  Audit Committee Report
48  Nomination Committee Report
49  Directors’ Remuneration Report
64  Directors’ Responsibility Statement OUR GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF  
DIRECTORS
Ensuring we remain a  
great place to work
Mark Asplin
Non-executive Chairman
Appointment to the Board
April 2005 
Committee membership
Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee 
Key areas of prior experience
Mark Asplin, aged 54, is a 
Chartered Accountant and joined 
the Board in April 2005. Mark 
was appointed Chairman in 
November 2011. He was until 
2002 a partner at KPMG. During 
his time at KPMG he helped build 
its Corporate Finance practice, 
undertaking roles which included 
Head of M&A and Head of 
Valuations, both for the central 
region of the UK. He left KPMG to 
set up Jasper Corporate Finance, 
an independent corporate finance 
practice.
Charles J Brady
Chief Executive
Appointment to the Board
November 1999
Committee membership
Nomination Committee
Key areas of prior experience
Charles J Brady, aged 59, is a 
solicitor and was a law lecturer 
before founding in 1985 the 
business which is now CLT. CLT 
was acquired by Wilmington in 
June 1999. Charlie joined the 
Board in November 1999 and 
was appointed Chief Executive 
in February 2002. Charlie 
announced his intention to retire 
as Chief Executive in February 
2014 and will hand over to Pedro 
Ros on 1 October 2014.
Pedro Ros
Chief Executive designate
Appointment to the Board
July 2014
Committee membership
None
Key areas of prior experience
Pedro Ros, aged 52, joined the 
board of Wilmington on 14 July 
2014 and will assume the role 
of Chief Executive, succeeding 
Charles J Brady, on 1 October 
2014. Pedro joined Wilmington 
from Creston plc, where he was 
Head of Strategic Insight. He was 
until June 2012, Chief Executive 
Officer and then Chairman of 
TNS, a global subsidiary of 
WPP plc, a world leader in 
market information and business 
analysis. Pedro has a degree in 
Economics from the Universidad 
Autonoma de Barcelona, and 
has completed Management 
Programmes at Michigan 
University/IESE and Stanford 
University.
Anthony M Foye
Chief Finance Officer
Appointment to the Board
September 2012
Committee membership
None
Key areas of prior experience
Anthony M Foye, aged 52, is a 
Chartered Accountant. Between 
1987 and 2004 Tony was Finance 
Director of Taylor & Francis Group 
plc. On a merger in May 2004 
with Informa plc, Tony became 
Group Finance Director of the 
enlarged Group, a position he 
held until December 2007. From 
January 2008, Tony worked on a 
number of projects with various 
private equity groups. Between 
May 2009 and March 2011 Tony 
was Chief Finance Officer and 
Chief Operating Officer of Critical 
Information Group plc. He was 
also a Non-Executive Director of 
YouGov plc from March 2005 to 
June 2009.
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
36 OUR GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board Composition at 30 June 2014
Executive
43%
Non-executive
57%
*  Excludes Pedro Ros, appointed on 14 July 2014
Board Tenure at 30 June 2014
0–4 years
57%
4+ years
43%
Neil E Smith
Chief Operating Officer
Appointment to the Board
December 2011
Committee membership
None
Key areas of prior experience
Neil E Smith, aged 43, is 
Wilmington’s Chief Operating 
Officer and joined the Board in 
December 2011. Neil E Smith 
has worked in the media industry 
for 22 years. In 1997 he led an 
MBO of the Business Information 
division of Macmillan which 
was backed by Wilmington 
and he subsequently led the 
development of the Group’s 
Business Intelligence division 
prior to his appointment as Chief 
Operating Officer. Neil has been 
a member of the Wilmington 
Executive Board since 2004 and 
in 2005 he gained a Masters in 
Finance (with distinction) from 
London Business School.
Derek Carter
Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board
December 2011
Committee membership
Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee (Chairman) and 
Remuneration Committee.
Key areas of prior experience
Derek Carter, aged 65, was 
previously Chief Executive of 
Emap Communications for 11 
years, where he led Emap’s 
growth into a market leading 
mixed media business built on 
powerful information, events 
and magazine brands and 
its subsequent sale to Apax/
Guardian Media Group in 2008. 
Derek, who was previously 
Chairman of DocuGroup, a 
leading European information 
business serving the construction 
sector, is the Senior Independent 
Director (‘SID’).
Terence B Garthwaite
Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board
June 2005
Committee membership
Audit Committee (Chairman), 
Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee.
Key areas of prior experience
Terence B Garthwaite, aged 69, 
is a Chartered Accountant and 
enjoyed a distinguished career 
in finance and industry including 
a period as Finance Director of 
engineering Group Senior plc. 
He is currently a Non-executive 
Director of Brammer plc, a 
European power transmissions 
supplier.
Nathalie Schwarz
Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board
December 2011
Committee membership
Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee (Chairman).
Key areas of prior experience
Nathalie Schwarz, aged 44, 
was formally the Commercial 
and Corporate Development 
Director on the Board at Channel 
4 Television and was Strategy 
and Development Director on 
the Board of Capital Radio plc. 
Nathalie qualified as a solicitor 
with Clifford Chance.
www.wilmington.co.uk
37
Stock Code: WIL The Directors present their report together with the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 June 2014.
General information
The Company is public limited and is incorporated and domiciled in the 
UK. The Company is premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.  
The Company’s registered address is 6–14 Underwood Street, London, 
N1 7JQ.
Branches outside the UK
The Group operates one branch outside the UK in Singapore.
Future developments
Future developments have been incorporated in the Strategic Report on 
pages 04 to 33.
Dividends
The Directors recommend that a final dividend for the year of 3.7p per 
ordinary share be paid on 10 November 2014 to Shareholders on the 
register on 17 October 2013, which together with the interim dividend of 
3.6p per ordinary share already paid makes a total dividend for the year of 
7.3p (2013: 7.0p) – an increase of 4% per ordinary share.
Research and development activities
The Group has designed and developed a range of data, information 
and education services to professionals and businesses. The Group has 
successfully transitioned the vast majority of its traditional print business 
publications to feature rich, online digital information and analysis 
services. This transition has only been possible through the novel use 
of technology. The Group looks to continue to research and develop in 
technological areas that support the Group’s strategy. Initiatives included 
a cross divisional Massive Online Open Course (‘MOOC’) system for a 
global client covering fundamental banking skills.
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year (2013: nil).
Post balance sheet events
The Nomination Committee searched for a successor tor the Chief 
Executive following the announcement on 25 February 2014 that Charles 
J Brady intended to retire. The Committee considered internal and 
external candidates for the role and, after a rigorous recruitment process, 
was pleased to announce that Pedro Ros was appointed on 14 July 2014 
and will assume the role of Chief Executive from 1 October 2014.
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors who have served during the year and up to the date of this 
report are set out on pages 36 and 37 which include brief biographical 
details. Their remuneration and interests in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
49 to 63.
All Executive and Non-executive Directors offer themselves for re-election 
at each Annual General Meeting as a result of the Company deciding to 
adopt best practice guidelines and the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code.
None of the Directors had any material interest in any contract, other than 
their employment contract, that was significant in relation to the Group’s 
business at any time during the year.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment and 
interests in the shares of the Company are shown in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 49 and 63.
Directors’ third party indemnity provisions
To preclude the possibility of the Company incurring expenses which 
might arise from the need to indemnify a Director or Officer from claims 
made against him or her or the cost associated with their defence, the 
Group has effected Directors’ and Officers’ qualifying third party liability 
insurance as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, which has been in 
force throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements.
Wilmington’s people
The Group’s policy is to consider all job applications on a fair basis 
free from discrimination in relation to age, sex, race, ethnicity, religion, 
sexual orientation or disability not related to job performance. Every 
consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled 
persons, where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered 
by a disabled person. Where existing employees become disabled, 
it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing 
employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training 
and career development wherever appropriate.
The Group places a great deal of importance on communicating its 
plans and objectives to its entire staff and, where appropriate, consulting 
with them. Each of the Divisions is run by a number of experienced 
business managers, many of who are shareholders in the Company or 
its subsidiary undertakings and whose remuneration is linked to revenue 
and/or profit achievements.
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
Communicating our  
plans and objectives
OUR GOVERNANCE
38
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s treasury policies and existing financial 
instruments is set out in note 20 of the Financial Statements. 
Purchase of own shares and sale of treasury shares
The Group has, in previous years, purchased its own shares and holds 
such shares in treasury. No shares have been purchased during the year 
to 30 June 2014. If a purchase of own shares is proposed the Company 
seeks authority from its shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to 
purchase its own shares.
During the year, 47,500 shares held in treasury were reissued for cash 
of £55,000 to settle vested share options awards. In addition, 668,910 
shares held in treasury were reissued at nil cost to settle vested share 
awards. Further details of both transactions are set out in note 22. 
At 30 June 2014, 425,590 shares were held in Treasury (2013: 
1,142,000), which represents 0.5% (2013: 1.3%) of the called up share 
capital of the Company.
Contracts of significance with shareholders
The Company and its subsidiary undertakings do not have any 
contractual or other arrangements with any continuing shareholders 
which are essential to the business of the Company.
Takeover directive disclosures
As at 30 June 2014, the Company had only one authorised class of 
share, namely ordinary shares of 5p each, of which there were in issue 
86,103,137 (2013: 86,103,137). There are no special arrangements 
or restrictions relating to any of these shares, whether in terms of 
transfers, voting rights, or relating to changes in control of the Company. 
The Company does not have any special rules in place regarding the 
appointment and replacement of Directors, or regarding amendments to 
the Company’s articles of association.
Under the terms of the Company’s banking arrangements, in the event 
that a person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the 
Company, the lending banks may require, by giving not less than 30 days’ 
notice, the repayment and cancellation of the facilities.
Except for share awards, there are no special conditions or agreements 
in place which would take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a 
takeover. Subject to various conditions, if the Company is taken over, all 
share awards will vest and may be exercised. Apart from the interests of 
the Directors disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the 
substantial interests listed on page 53, there are no individuals or entities 
with significant holdings, either direct or indirect, in the Company.
Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
to be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, London, 
EC2V 7QR on 6 November 2014 will be sent out with this Annual Report 
and Financial Statements.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found in 
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 45 of these financial 
statements. The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this 
Directors’ Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Going concern
As highlighted in note 20 to the Financial Statements, the Group meets its 
day-to-day working capital requirements through an overdraft facility and 
a revolving credit facility which are due for renewal in February 2016.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, in particular, over:
•	 the level of demand for the Group’s products; 
•	 the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar and the Euro; 
and 
•	 the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s budgets and forecasts, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be 
able to operate within the level of its current facility and covenants.
After reviewing the Group’s budget and forecasts for the 18 months 
to 31 December 2015 and its medium-term plans, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future. Therefore, they have 
adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Mark Asplin  
Non-Executive Chairman
17 September 2014
www.wilmington.co.uk
39
Stock Code: WIL What does it mean to Wilmington?
The Board of Wilmington is committed to maintain appropriate 
standards of corporate governance and have implemented in full the 
changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced in 2012.
The Directors and I see good governance as fundamental to effective 
management of the business and delivery of long-term shareholder 
value.
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted to the 
Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’), published by the Financial Reporting 
Council. The Board fully supports the principles set out in the Code 
and confirms that it has complied with all of the provisions of the Code 
throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2014.
This report sets out Wilmington’s governance policies and practices and 
includes details of how the Group applies the principles and complies 
with the provisions of the Code.
Composition and independence
The board reviews Non-executive Director independence on an annual 
basis and takes into account the individual’s professional characteristics, 
their behaviour at Board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and 
independent debate. All of the Non-executive Directors are considered by 
the Board to be independent.
We are aware that, for some investors, length of Non-executive Directors’ 
service beyond nine years may prejudice their independence. Terence 
Garthwaite has served on the Board since 2005. The Board believe that 
Terence Garthwaite continues to exercise a degree of rigorous enquiry 
and intellectual challenge in respect of his role as Non-executive Director 
and continue to regard him as independent. His continuity of service 
has been, and continues to be, of considerable benefit to the Company 
through a period of significant change in the Executive Directors and 
provides an important knowledge link with the past and an in-depth 
understanding of the Company which is considered to be highly beneficial 
to the Board.
The Board consisted of a majority of independent Non-executive 
Directors throughout the year.
Biographical details of all the current Directors are set out on pages 36 
and 37.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors 
will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Diversity
Wilmington believes that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving its 
success.
As at 30 June 2014, the Wilmington Board had one female Non-executive 
Director, Nathalie Schwarz, representing 14.0% of Board membership. 
The Executive Committee known as the Executive Management Board 
(responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company) had one 
female member, Linda Wake, representing 20.0% of this Committee’s 
membership. Nathalie and Linda both bring invaluable skills and 
experience to Wilmington. The Group’s employees are split between 62% 
female and 38% male.
Board evaluation and re-election
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance 
and that of each individual Director. As in previous years, and in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all of the Directors 
will be offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in November 2014.
Shareholder engagement
The Board regards it as important to maintain an active dialogue with 
our shareholders. Further details regarding this engagement with our 
shareholders are set out on page 45.
Mark Asplin 
Non-Executive Chairman
17 September 2014
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE REPORT
“The Board of Wilmington is 
committed to maintain appropriate 
standards of corporate governance 
and have implemented in 
full the changes to 
the UK. ”
Mark Asplin  
Chairman
OUR GOVERNANCE
40
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
LEADERSHIP
The Board
The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which, at 
30 June 2014, comprised three Executive and four Non-executive 
Directors. Short biographies of each Director are set out on pages 36 
and 37. The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of 
effective business controls and review of business performance.
The Board meets as often as necessary to discharge its duties effectively. 
In the financial year ended 30 June 2014, thirteen Board meetings were 
scheduled and the Directors’ attendance record is set out on page 43.
The Board has three formally constituted Committees, the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination 
Committee, each of which operates with defined terms of reference. 
The terms of reference of the three Committees are available on the 
Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk. The Audit Committee met 
three times during the year, the Remuneration Committee met twice 
during the year and the Nomination Committee met four times during 
the year.
There is an Executive Committee known as the Executive Management 
Board that is responsible for the day-to-day management of the 
Company’s business within a framework of delegated responsibilities. It is 
chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the Chief Finance Officer, the 
Chief Operating Officer, Deputy Finance Director and Chief Technology 
Officer.
Governance framework
30 June 2014
CHAIRMAN
BOARD: NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, THREE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THREE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD: THREE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, DEPUTY FINANCE DIRECTOR 
AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
DIVISIONAL OPERATING BOARDS*
* Each operating segment has a divisional operating board.
Linda Wake
Executive Management Board Director
Appointment to the Executive Management Board
October 2010
Committee membership
None
Key areas of prior experience
Linda Wake, aged 37, qualified as a Chartered management accountant in 2000, 
having worked in the media industry since 1995. She joined Wilmington in 2004 
and was quickly promoted to Divisional Finance Director. She joined the Executive 
Management Board in October 2010 in the role as Deputy Finance Director. Linda 
has recently been appointed as the Company Secretary and is due to take over 
from Richard Cockton, the current Company Secretary, on 6 November 2014.
Chris Jelley
Executive Management Board Director
Appointment to the Executive Management Board
April 2014
Committee membership
None
Key areas of prior experience
Chris Jelley, aged 45, joined Wilmington in November 2011. A British Computer 
Society Chartered IT professional, Chris has spent the last 25 years in the digital 
space working in a variety of senior roles and delivering cutting-edge solutions in 
the finance, insurance and e-commerce sectors. Chris obtained his Doctorate in 
Applied Mathematics and Computing from Cranfield University in 1997 and joined 
the Wilmington Executive team in the role as Chief Technology Officer in April 2014.
www.wilmington.co.uk
41
Stock Code: WIL CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE REPORT
Length of tenure of Directors
30 June 2014
15 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
Mark Asplin
Charles Brady
Anthony Foye
Neil E Smith
Derek Carter
Terry B Garthwaite
Nathalie Schwarz
1
Executives
Years
Non-executives
Balance of Directors
30 June 2014
● Female 14%
● Male 86%
● Executive 43%
● Non-executive 57%
The Directors
As at the date of this report the Directors of the Company are:
Non-executive Chairman
Mark Asplin
Executive Directors
Charles J Brady 
Pedro Ros* 
Anthony M Foye 
Neil E Smith
Non-executive Directors
Derek Carter (Senior Independent Director) 
Terence B Garthwaite 
Nathalie Schwarz
* Pedro Ros was appointed to the Board on 14 July 2014 as an Executive Director with the 
intention of taking over as Chief Executive from 1 October 2014 following the announcement 
of the intention to retire by Charles J Brady on 25 February 2014.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and that of the Chief Executive are held 
by separate individuals and the Board has clearly defined their 
responsibilities. The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective 
working of the Board, ensuring that each Director, particularly the 
Non-executive Directors, is able to make an effective contribution and 
provide constructive comments on the business. The Chief Executive has 
responsibility for all operational matters which includes the implementation 
of Group strategy and policies approved by the Board.
Non-executive Directors
All the Non-executive Directors are independent of the Company’s 
Executive management and free from any business or other relationship 
that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. The Non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing 
independent and objective judgement and scrutiny of all matters before 
the Board and its Committees, using their substantial and wide-ranging 
experience.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal 
business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has, or had at any time during the year, any interest in a 
contract with any Group company, except for their service arrangements.
All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the 
Company’s affairs, and all Directors, in accordance with the Articles of 
Association, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three 
years. At Wilmington Directors are submitted for re-election every year.
Senior Independent Director
Derek Carter is the Senior Independent Director (‘SID’). His role as SID 
includes:
•	 Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Finance Officer has 
failed to resolve (no such requests were received from shareholders 
during the year); and
•	 Meeting with the other Non-executive Directors on the Board once a 
year to assess the Chairman’s performance as Chairman, taking into 
account the views of the Executive Directors.
OUR GOVERNANCE
42
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
EFFECTIVENESS
Meetings
There were thirteen meetings of the Board in the year. The Board has a 
formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision which it 
reviews periodically. This includes approval of acquisitions and disposals 
and major capital expenditure. The Board also reviews the Register of 
Risks. At each Board meeting the Chief Executive provided a review of 
the business and how it was performing together with strategic issues 
arising. In the year the range of subjects discussed included:
•	 The strategy of the Group in response to changing economic 
conditions;
•	 Key business areas, including the challenging market conditions in the 
legal division;
•	 The integration of recent acquisitions;
•	 The Group’s debt and capital structure;
•	 The Group’s financial results;
•	 Dividend policy;
•	 Regulatory and governance issues;
•	 The development of the Group’s people;
•	 The Risk Assessment register; and
•	 Insurance Policy and Cover.
In addition to the thirteen meetings described above, the Board has 
two off-site strategy meetings each year at which the Group’s strategic 
direction, three year plan and significant projects are discussed.
Where meetings are required between Board meetings and a full 
complement of Directors cannot be achieved, a Committee of Directors 
considers the necessary formalities.
Attendance table
Board 
meetings 
attended
Board 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-executive Chairman) 13 13
Charles J Brady (Chief Executive) 13 13
Anthony Foye 13 13
Neil E Smith 13 13
Terry B Garthwaite (Non-executive) 12 13
Derek Carter (Non-executive) 13 13
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-executive) 13 13
Information flow
The Chairman, together with the Company secretary, ensures that the 
Directors receive clear information on all relevant matters in a timely 
manner. Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings 
for them to be thoroughly digested to ensure clarity of informed debate. 
The Board papers contain the Chief Executive’s written report, high 
level papers on each business area, key metrics and specific papers 
relating to agenda items. The Board papers are accompanied by a 
management information pack containing detailed financial and other 
supporting information. The Board receives updates throughout the 
year and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular relevance or 
importance.
Time commitment
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-executive 
Directors committed sufficient time during the year to enable them to 
fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company. None of the Non-executive 
Directors has any conflict of interest.
Induction and professional development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training are 
provided to each Director and for organising the induction process and 
regular updating and training of Board members.
Training and updating in relation to the business of the Group and the 
legal and regulatory responsibilities of Directors was provided throughout 
the year by a variety of means to Board members including presentations 
by Executives, visits to business operations and circulation of briefing 
material. Individual Directors are also expected to take responsibility for 
identifying their training needs and to ensure they are adequately informed 
about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director. The Board is 
confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience 
to perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
Access to independent advice
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary who ensures that Board processes are followed and good 
corporate governance standards are maintained. Any Director who 
considers it necessary or appropriate may take independent, professional 
advice at the Company’s expense. None of the Directors sought such 
advice in the year.
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance 
and that of each individual Director. As part of its evaluation, a 
questionnaire was approved by the Board. Directors submitted their 
completed questionnaires to the Chairman of the Audit Committee who 
reviewed their responses. These were subsequently discussed in an 
open session. The exercise, which is undertaken on a regular basis, was 
viewed positively by the Board. No major areas were highlighted within 
this review process but the Board intend to continue to develop themes 
arising from previous reviews, specifically on:
•	 strategic messaging;
•	 Board information; and
•	 succession.
The Chairman has carried out a review of the performance of individual 
members of the Board. In all cases the performance of the Directors was 
considered to have reached a high standard.
www.wilmington.co.uk
43
Stock Code: WIL CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Board and its Committees will monitor progress and continue their 
critical review of its effectiveness during the year ahead. In accordance 
with the prevailing recommendations of the Code, it is the current 
intention of the Board that an external facilitation of the Board evaluation 
will be carried out in 2015.
Re-election of Directors
Notwithstanding that the Company’s articles of association require the 
Directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three 
years, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code all of 
the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in 
November 2014. In light of the performance evaluations summarised 
above and the provisions of the Company’s articles of association, the 
Board recommends that all of the Directors be re-elected.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee and the Board seek to maintain an 
appropriate balance between the Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
The Committee is chaired by Derek Carter as SID and comprises all 
the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, and the Chief 
Executive. It has full responsibility for reviewing the Board structure and 
for interviewing and nominating candidates to serve on the Board as 
well as reviewing senior Executive development. Suitable candidates, 
once nominated, meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The 
candidates are then put forward for consideration and appointment by 
the Board as a whole. The Committee has access to external professional 
advice at the Company’s expense as and when required.
The Nomination Committee reviews on a continuing basis the 
composition of both the Board and the Executive management 
Board making recommendations where appropriate. Further details 
of Nomination Committee’s activities can be found in the Nomination 
Committee Report on page 48.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is composed of all the Non-executive Directors 
including the Chairman. The Board is satisfied that Terence B Garthwaite, 
who chairs the Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in 
written terms of reference and are available on the Company’s website 
www.wilmington.co.uk.
Details of Audit Committee’s policies and activities can be found in the 
Audit Committee Report on pages 46 and 47.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Internal control
In line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the Board maintains 
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant 
risks faced by the Group. The Board regularly reviews this process, which 
has been in operation from the start of the year to the date of approval 
of this report. The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of 
these systems. These systems are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. 
Also, in line with the Turnbull Report recommendations, the Board 
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control. The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management. It is based 
principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether 
significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled.
Further details of specific risks such as interest rate risk, liquidity risk and 
foreign currency risk are given in the Financial Statements in note 20. 
The Group has a Data Protection Officer to co-ordinate the Group’s data 
protection activities.
The key features of the internal financial control system that operated 
throughout the period under review are as follows:
i) Financial reporting
The Board reviewed the Annual Report, together with the annual and half-
year results announcements.
The Board considered the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting 
policies, critical accounting estimates and key judgements. It reviewed 
accounting papers prepared by management on areas of financial 
reporting judgement. This included a consideration of the carrying value 
of goodwill based on Executive management’s expectations of future 
performance.
The Board considered and is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and that it provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
ii) Management information systems
Effective planning, budgeting and forecasting systems are in place, as 
well as a monthly review of actual results compared with budget and the 
prior year. The annual budget, updated three times per year, is reviewed 
by the Board. Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral 
part of this process. Monthly reports on performance are provided to the 
Board and the Group reports results to shareholders twice a year.
Each area of the business carries out risk assessments of its operations, 
and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
Insurance cover for the Group, as well as individual operating companies, 
has been procured where it is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Board has identified key strategic risks faced by the 
Group, which have been prioritised and are set out in the Strategic Report 
on pages 30 to 32.
OUR GOVERNANCE
44
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
iii) Internal audit
The Group has implemented a limited embryonic internal audit process 
during the year which performs relevant reviews as part of a programme 
approved by the Audit Committee. The Committee considers any issues 
or risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate actions can 
be undertaken for their satisfactory resolution. The internal audit manager 
has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
iv) Acquisitions, disposals and treasury
The Board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact of 
major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing. All 
such proposed substantial investments are considered by all Directors. 
The Board is also responsible for reviewing and approving the Group’s 
treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest rates 
and foreign exchange rates.
Organisations
There are well-structured financial and administrative functions at both 
the Group and operating company level staffed by appropriately qualified 
staff. The key functions at Group level include: Group accounting, 
corporate planning, Group treasury, Human resources, Company 
secretarial, internal audit and Group taxation.
REMUNERATION
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nathalie Schwarz and 
consists of all the Non-executives and the Chairman. It is responsible 
for recommending to the Board the framework and policy for Executive 
Directors’ remuneration. Given the small size of the Board, the 
Committee recognises the potential for conflicts of interest, and has 
taken appropriate measures to minimise the risk. The Committee meets 
not less than once a year, and takes advice from the Chief Executive 
as appropriate. In carrying out its work, the Board itself determines the 
remuneration of the Non-executive Directors. The Committee has the 
power to seek external advice, and to appoint consultants as and when 
required in respect of the remuneration of Executive Directors. Further 
details of the Group’s policies on remuneration and service contracts can 
be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 63.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Company and its institutional shareholders by means of 
a programme of meetings with major shareholders, fund managers 
and analysts each year. The Company also makes presentations to 
analysts and fund managers following publication of its half-year and 
full-year results. A copy of the presentation slide show is available on 
the Company’s website www.wilmington.co.uk. As referred to earlier, 
the ‘SID’ is available to shareholders if they have concerns which other 
contacts have failed to resolve.
The Chairman or one of the other Non-executive Directors is available on 
request to attend meetings with major shareholders. In the past year, the 
Chairman attended such meetings. The Board regularly receives copies of 
analysts’ and brokers’ briefings.
The Group’s website includes a specific and comprehensive investor 
relations section containing all RNS announcements, share price 
information, annual documents available for download and similar 
materials.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting is being sent 
out with this Report and Financial Statements. Separate votes are held 
for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the Remuneration 
Policy included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 
63. At the Annual General Meeting, after the formal business has been 
concluded, the Chairman will welcome questions from shareholders. All 
Directors attend the meeting at which they have the opportunity to meet 
with shareholders. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting on 6 November 2014 and an explanation of the items 
of special business can be found in the circular that contains the notice 
convening the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 August 2014, the Company is aware of the following interests 
amounting to 3.0% or more in the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital:
Number 
of ordinary 
shares %
Liontrust Asset Management
12,188,698 14.2
Aberdeen Asset Management
10,883,259 12.6
Standard Life Investments 5,450,412
6.3
Herald Investment Management 4,386,501
5.1
Schroder Investment Management 4,175,000
4.8
GVO Investment Management 4,080,879
4.7
M&G Investment Management 3,602,085
4.2
Mr Brian David Gilbert 3,222,223
3.7
Mr Rory Conwell 3,083,170
3.6
Charles J Brady 3,056,429
3.6
Threadneedle Investments 2,849,741
3.3
Baillie Gifford 2,809,095
3.3
Approved by order of the Board
Mark Asplin 
Non-executive Chairman
17 September 2014
www.wilmington.co.uk
45
Stock Code: WIL Dear Shareholder
It is my pleasure to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 
30 June 2014.
Committee meetings
The Committee met three times during the year. The meetings are 
attended by Committee members and, by invitation, the Chief Finance 
Officer and representatives from the external auditors. Once a year, 
the Committee meets separately with the external auditors and with 
management without the other being present.
Roles and responsibilities
•	 Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements, 
the accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate governance 
statements;
•	 Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting 
policies and practices;
•	 In conjunction with the Board reviewing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk-management 
systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and 
reporting all key risks;
•	 Managing the limited embryonic internal audit process and approving 
their forward audit plan;
•	 To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment 
and removal of the external auditors and to approve their remuneration 
and terms of engagement;
•	 To review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration, relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
•	 To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant 
ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the 
external audit firm, and to report to the Board, identifying any matters in 
respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and 
making recommendations as the steps to be taken;
•	 To report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities; and
•	 To oversee the whistle blowing provisions of the Group to ensure that 
they are operating effectively.
Activities of the Committee
•	 Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the key accounting 
considerations and judgements reflected in the Group’s results for the 
six month period ended 31 December 2013;
•	 Reviewed and agreed the external auditors’ audit plan in advance of 
their audit for the year ended 30 June 2014;
•	 Discussed the report received from the external auditors regarding 
their audit in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014, which included 
comments on their findings on internal control and a statement on their 
independence and objectivity;
•	 Reviewed the Group’s whistle blowing policy and satisfied themselves 
that this met FCA rules and good standards of corporate governance;
•	 Received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of the 
Group’s operations, controls and processes; and
•	 Reviewed and approved the non-audit assignments undertaken by the 
external auditors in the year ended 30 June 2014.
Significant areas
The significant areas considered by the Committee and discussed with 
the external auditors during the year were:
i) Management override of internal controls: 
The Committee considered the inherent risk of management override 
of internal controls as defined by auditing standards. In so doing, the 
Committee reviewed the robustness and effectiveness of the overall 
control environment of the Group, including consideration of the Group’s 
whistle blowing arrangements and the review conducted by the internal 
and external audits and, was satisfied that there were no issues arising.
ii) Goodwill impairment: 
The Committee received reports from management on the carrying 
value of the Group’s businesses, including goodwill. The Committee 
reviewed management’s recommendations, which were also considered 
by the external auditors, including evaluation of the appropriateness of 
the assumptions applied in determining asset carrying values and the 
appropriateness of the identification of cash generating units. After review, 
the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements 
applied by management and concluded that no impairment of carrying 
values was required.
AUDIT COMMITTEE  
REPORT
“The Audit Committee  
considered and discussed  
four significant areas”
Terry B Garthwaite  
Chairman of the Audit Committee
OUR GOVERNANCE
46
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
iii) Revenue recognition: 
The Committee considered the inherent risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition as defined by auditing standards and was satisfied that there 
were no issues arising.
iv) Acquisition accounting: 
The Committee considered the acquisition accounting for Compliance 
Week, focusing on the judgements and assumptions used by 
management in determining the acquired intangible asset valuation. 
After review, the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and 
judgements applied by management.
External audit
The Group’s external auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . The 
Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors, and ensuring this is safeguarded 
notwithstanding any provision of any other services to the Group.
The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor objectivity 
and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor independence is 
not compromised:
•	 The Audit Committee carries out each year a full evaluation of the 
external auditor as to its complete independence from the Group 
and relevant officers of the Group in all material respects and that it is 
adequately resourced and technically capable to deliver an objective 
audit to shareholders. Based on this review the Audit Committee 
recommends to the Board each year the continuation, or removal and 
replacement, of the external auditor;
•	 The external auditors provided audit related services such as regulatory 
and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholders 
and other circulars;
•	 The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and 
provide assistance on tax matters given its knowledge of the Group’s 
businesses. Such provision will however be assessed on a case-
by-case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained. The Audit 
Committee monitors the application of policy in this regard and keeps 
the policy under review;
•	 The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, 
and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing the reasonableness 
of fees, value of delivery, and any independence issues that may have 
arisen or may potentially arise in the future;
•	 The external auditors’ report to the Directors and the Audit Committee 
confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards. 
In addition to the steps taken by the Board to safeguard auditor 
objectivity, the Audit Practice Board Ethical Standard 3 requires audit 
partner rotation every five years for listed companies; and
•	 Different teams are utilised on all other assignments undertaken by the 
auditors. Before any such assignments can commence teams must 
obtain approval of the Audit Committee. This approval confirms that 
sufficient and appropriate safeguards are put in place to ensure that 
auditor independence is retained.
The Audit Committee give careful consideration before appointing 
the auditors to provide other services. The Group regularly use other 
providers to ensure that independence and full value for money are 
achieved. Other services are generally limited to work that is closely 
related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a 
detailed understanding of the business is necessary.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as auditors for 
6 years following a tender process in 2009. As part of its review the 
Committee notes that the Group Audit Partner was rotated in 2013 and 
the current audit partner’s five year term will end in 2017. After careful 
review the Committee believes that a tender is not in the Group’s interests 
at this time. During this year, £72,000 and £17,000 was paid by the 
Group to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for taxation services and other 
assurance services respectively.
Attendance table
Board 
meetings 
attended
Board 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-executive Chairman)
3 3
Terry B Garthwaite (Non-executive)
3 3
Derek Carter (Non-executive) 3
3
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-executive) 3
3
Approved on behalf of the Board by:
Terence B Garthwaite 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
17 September 2014
www.wilmington.co.uk
47
Stock Code: WIL NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholder
It is my pleasure to present the Nomination Committee report for the year 
ended 30 June 2014.
Key responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
•	 Review the size, balance and constitution of the Board including the 
diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Non-
executive Directors;
•	 Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior 
Executives;
•	 Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates to fill 
Board vacancies;
•	 Review annually the time commitment required of Non-executive 
Directors; and
•	 Make recommendations for the Board, in consultation with the 
respective Committee chairman regarding membership of the audit and 
remuneration Committees.
Main activities of the Committee during the year and subsequent to 
the year end
The Committee met four times during the year to 30 June 2014. The key 
matters considered at these meetings were:
i) Board composition
The Committee searched for a successor for the Chief Executive following 
the announcement on 25 February 2014 that Charles J Brady intended to 
retire. The Committee considered internal and external candidates for the 
role and, after a rigorous recruitment process, was pleased to announce 
that Pedro Ros was appointed as a Director on 14 July 2014 and will 
assume the role of Chief Executive from 1 October 2014. The Committee 
reviewed the composition of the Board including the range of skills, 
level of experience and balance between Executive and Non-executive 
Directors. The Committee used Independent Search Partnership LLP , 
an External Search Consultancy, in assisting with the search for a 
successor for the Chief Executive role. Independent Search Partnership 
LLP has no connection with the Group. The Committee also reviewed the 
membership of the various Board Committees.
ii) Succession planning
The Committee kept under review the succession plans for both 
the Executive and Non-executive Directors and the level of senior 
management immediately below Board level.
The Nomination Committee was also pleased to confirm that Chris Jelley, 
the Group’s Chief Technology Officer, has been promoted to the Group’s 
Executive Management Board, effective from 1 April 2014.
Richard Cockton, the Group Company Secretary, has indicated that he 
will retire at the AGM on 6 November 2014. The committee is delighted 
to announce that Linda Wake will become Group Company Secretary 
in succession to Richard, whilst maintaining her role as Deputy Finance 
Director.
Attendance table
Board 
meetings 
attended
Board 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Mark Asplin (Non-executive Chairman)
4 4
Charles J Brady (Chief Executive)
4 4
Terry B Garthwaite (Non-executive) 4
4
Derek Carter (Non-executive) 4
4
Nathalie Schwarz (Non-executive) 3
4
Approved on behalf of the Board by:
Derek Carter 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
18 September 2014
“The Board is delighted to 
welcome Pedro Ros to Wilmington. 
His global experience combined 
with his proven ability to grow 
information and professional 
services businesses both organically 
and through successfully 
integrated acquisition 
make him a natural 
choice for us. ”
Derek Carter  
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee
OUR GOVERNANCE
48
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE  
CHAIRMAN’S ANNUAL STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Remuneration report 
for the period ended 30 June 2014. 
To reflect the requirements of the revised remuneration reporting 
regulations, this report is presented in two sections: the Annual Report on 
Remuneration and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the amounts 
earned in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014 and how the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy will be operated for the year commencing 1 July 
2014. This is subject to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets out the forward-looking 
remuneration, recruitment and termination policy. It will also be subject 
to a binding vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and subject to 
shareholder approval, shall take binding effect from the close of that 
meeting.
Review of 2014
As described in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report, 
Wilmington has performed well across all key financial and operational 
measures. The Group has made progress as evidenced by the improved 
financial performance in 2014 and consequently an annual bonus to 
Executive Directors of 88.6% of base salary is due for performance 
against targets set by the Committee for the 2014 financial year. 
Consequently, 91.8% of the 2011 PSP has therefore vested based on 
performance to 30 June 2014.
Outlook for 2015
For the current financial year: 
•	 An increase of 2.0% in annual salary is being awarded to the Executive 
Directors for the new financial year.
•	 The annual bonus potential for Executive Directors remains unchanged 
at up to a maximum of 100% of base salary dependent on key financial 
performance indicators. There are clear financial targets based on the 
achievement of adjusted profit, return on equity and return on sales 
and the Committee is satisfied that these are challenging and, in order 
for the maximum bonus to be earned, will demonstrate significant 
further improvement in the profit performance of the business;
•	 The Committee will continue to monitor the performance conditions 
for any future PSP awards to ensure that the conditions continue to be 
appropriate for the Company and the prevailing market and reflect the 
application of a ‘pay for performance’ philosophy in the best interests 
of the Company and shareholders; and
•	 It is intended that PSP awards in 2014/15 will be made on a similar 
basis to the 2013/14 awards. The maximum award to all Executive 
Directors will be 100% of base salary.
•	 The Chief Executive (designate), Pedro Ros, was recruited in July 2014 
and his on-going remuneration package has been set in accordance 
with the recruitment policy.
•	 Charles Brady is expected to remain on the Board in a part time 
capacity as an Executive Director. His remuneration consists of base 
salary and taxable benefits set at a level which reflects his part time 
status. Charles Brady will not participate in the annual bonus scheme 
or be eligible for future grants of awards under the PSP .
•	 The Committee intends to review the remuneration policy during the 
year to ensure it remains aligned to the business strategy and delivery 
of shareholder value.
Approved on behalf of the Board by:
Nathalie Schwarz 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 September 2014 “The Annual Report on 
Remuneration provides details on 
the amounts earned in respect of 
the year ended 30 June 2014 
and how the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy 
will be operated for 
the year commencing 
1 July 2014. ”
Nathalie Schwarz  
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
www.wilmington.co.uk
49
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Certain details set out on pages 50 to 63 of this report have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
Introduction (unaudited information)
The Committee has an established policy on the remuneration of Executive and Non-executive Directors. The key principles are as follows:
•	 Remuneration is directly aligned with the performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders. It is designed to reward, motivate, incentivise 
and retain Executives of the highest calibre, without paying more than is necessary.
•	 A significant proportion of Executives’ potential remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to annual and long-term Group performance targets, 
which are reviewed annually. Targets are calibrated appropriately so as to ensure that they cannot encourage excessive risk.
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited information)
The tables below report the total remuneration receivable in respect of qualifying services by each Director during the year.
2014
Total salary 
and fees
(a)
£’000
Taxable 
benefits
(b)
£’000
Annual 
bonus
(c)
£’000
PSP
(d)
£’000
Pensions 
related 
benefits
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
Charles J Brady 369 29 302 243 — 943
Anthony M Foye 252 25 205 — — 482
Neil E Smith 283 23 231 154 — 691
Non-executive Directors
Mark Asplin 79 — — — — 79
Terence B Garthwaite 41 — — — — 41
Derek Carter 41 — — — — 41
Nathalie Schwarz 41 — — — — 41
2013
Total salary 
and fees
(a)
£’000
Taxable 
benefits
(b)
£’000
Annual 
bonus
(c)
£’000
PSP
(d)
£’000
Pensions 
related 
benefits
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive Directors
Charles J Brady 369 29 273 264 — 935
Anthony M Foye (appointed on 3 September 2012) 210 21 154 — — 385
Neil E Smith 283 23 208 94 — 608
Non-executive Directors
Mark Asplin 79 — — — — 79
Terence B Garthwaite 41 — — — — 41
Derek Carter 41 — — — — 41
Nathalie Schwarz 41 — — — — 41
(a)  Total salary and fees — the amount of salary/fees received in the year. The 2013 amount includes salary of £25k and £10k for Charles J Brady and Neil E Smith that was sacrificed to an individual 
pension scheme.
(b) Taxable benefits — the taxable value of benefits received in the year (i.e. car allowance and private medical insurance).
(c) Annual bonus — the cash value of the bonus earned in respect of the year. A description of performance against the objectives which applied for the financial year is provided on page 51.
(d) PSP – the value of performance related incentives vesting in respect of the financial year.
For the year ended 30 June 2014:
•	 EPS growth in excess of RPI was 7.1%, ROE (for PSP)
9
 was 30.0% the Company’s TSR was positioned 40th out of 156 comparator companies for 
the three year performance period ending 30 June 2014 and 91.8% of maximum LTIP award will vest (these amounts represent the Group’s best 
estimates and are subject to final confirmation from the Committee’s adviser Aon Hewitt Limited due to be finalised shortly after the finalisation of 
these accounts);
•	 The value shown for PSP includes the value of dividends that would have accrued on vested shares during the performance period that will 
subsequently be paid to the participants; and
•	 The PSP awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (vesting date), the estimated value of the vested shares shown above is based 
on the three month average share price to 30 June 2014.
9.  ROE (for PSP) – The three year average Adjusted EBITA, less impairment, add amortisation of intangible assets – computer software divided by the average equity attributable to the owners of  
the parent.
OUR GOVERNANCE
50
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ended 30 June 2013 comparative figures:
•	 EPS growth in excess of RPI was 6.1%, ROE (for PSP) was 28.5% the Company’s TSR was positioned 90th out of 163 comparator companies for 
the three year performance period ending 30 June 2013, therefore 55.0% of maximum LTIP award vested; and
•	 The value shown for PSP includes the value of dividends accruing on vested shares during the performance period, subsequently paid to the 
participants.
Total salary and fees (audited information)
For the year ended 30 June 2014
Total salary and fees are based on the need to retain the skills and knowledge that the Executive and Non-executive Directors bring to the Company. 
The salaries and fees are set at a level that is consistent in businesses of the Company’s size and nature. Executive Directors’ salaries remained 
unchanged in 2013/14 compared to 2012/13. Non-Executive Directors’ fees also remain unchanged during the same period.
For the year ended 30 June 2015 (unaudited information)
It is intended that the Executive Director salaries will be increased by 2.0% for 2014/15. The fee for Mark Asplin, a Non-Executive Director, is being 
increased to £100,000 with effect from 1 July 2014 in order to reflect his increased work load and to align his fees with those of similar roles across the 
market.
Annual bonus (audited information)
For the year ended 30 June 2014
Annual bonus payments were based on the Company’s performance against targets based on linear ranges of adjusted profit, ROE (for Annual bonus) 
and ROS, set at the start of the year. In relation to the bonuses payable, these were based on the following level of achievement against each of the 
three metrics:
•	 Up to 60% of salary for the adjusted profit measure;
•	 Up to 20% of salary for the ROE (for Annual bonus) measure; 
•	 Up to 20% of salary for the ROS measure;
•	 Linear scales of bonus for each metric were set at the start of the financial year;
•	 Annual bonus payments are pro-rated to match service periods where a Director only served for part of the year;
•	 Adjusted profit is profit before adjusting items, impairment of goodwill, amortisation of publishing rights, title and benefits, unwinding of the discount 
on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests, unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration, provision for the 
Executives’ bonuses, share-based payments and after deducting the interest of non-controlling shareholders in such profits;
•	 The profit element of ROE (for Annual bonus) is based on Adjusted Profit before Tax after other adjusting items; and
•	 The profit element of ROS is based on Adjusted EBITA after impairment.
The following provides the adjusted profit, ROE (for Annual Bonus) and ROS target reference points together with the bonus pay-outs to the Executive 
Directors for 2013/14:
Minimum 
target set
Maximum 
target set
Performance 
out-turn
Resulting pay 
out as a % of 
base salary
Adjusted profit £15,279,000 £17,570,000 £17,137,000 48.6%
ROE (for Annual bonus) 25.0% 27.0% 30.5% 20.0%
ROS 17.5% 19.5% 20.8% 20.0%
Total 88.6%
For the year ending 30 June 2015 (unaudited remuneration)
The Committee has agreed that the metrics used to determine the annual bonus for 2014/15 remain unchanged and the maximum bonus opportunity 
will remain at 100% of base salary. The bonus will be subject to stretching targets. The Committee believes that the targets for the financial measures 
for the forthcoming financial year are commercially sensitive and that to disclose them may damage the Company’s competitive position. Targets 
will be published retrospectively in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report or at such point that the Remuneration Committee considers that the 
performance targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
www.wilmington.co.uk
51
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
PSP (audited information)
Awards vesting in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014
The PSP awards granted on 19 October 2011 that are due to vest on 19 October 2014 were subject to EPS growth, ROE (for PSP) and relative TSR 
performance against the FTSE SmallCap over a three year period to 30 June 2014. The performance conditions for these awards were as shown in the 
table below:
One-third of award —  
Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 3% per annum 0.0%
3% per annum 25.0%
Between 3% per annum and 9% per annum On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
9% per annum or more 100.0%
One-third of award — ROE (for PSP) Percentage of Award Vesting
Less than 25.0% 0.0%
25.0% 25.0%
Between 25.0% and 29.0% On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
29.0% or above 100.0%
One-third of award — TSR versus FTSE SmallCap Percentage of Award Vesting
Below median 0.0%
Median 25.0%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 25.0% and 100.0%
Upper quartile or above 100.0%
The table below details the Company’s performance against these objectives for the three year performance period:
Element Target Range 
Performance 
out-turn
Shares vested 
as a % of 
maximum
EPS Growth 3.0% – 9.0% 7.1% 25.51%
ROE (for PSP)
25.0% – 
29.0% 30.0% 33.33%
TSR
Median or 
above 40 out 156 33.00%
Total 91.84%
Awards granted during the year
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2014 the following PSP awards were granted on 19 September 2013:
Name Type of award
Number of 
shares
Face value at 
grant
% of award 
vesting at 
minimum 
threshold
Charles J Brady PSP 94,165 185,128 25.0%
Anthony M Foye PSP 63,722 125,277 25.0%
Neil E Smith PSP 71,953 141,460 25.0%
The face value is based on a price of 196.6 pence being the average share price from the five business days immediately preceding the award which 
was made on 19 September 2013. The awards vest on 19 September 2016. The performance conditions for these awards are the same as the 
performance conditions detailed in the table above. The number of shares awarded represents 50% of each individual’s salary.
The Committee determined that all participants (including Executives) will be required to hold no less than 50% of any vested shares (net of taxes) for a 
minimum of two years.
OUR GOVERNANCE
52
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
For the year ending 30 June 2015 (unaudited remuneration)
It is intended that awards in 2014/15 will be made on a similar basis to the 2013/14 awards. The maximum award to all Executive Directors will be 
150% of base salary. No changes are proposed to the performance conditions detailed in the table above.
Shareholding guidelines and statement of Directors’ share awards (audited information)
Shareholding guidelines for Executives have been adopted, linked to the out-turn from the PSP . At the time Awards vest under the PSP (or any other 
Executive plan established in the future), Executives will be expected to retain no fewer than 50% of vested shares (net of taxes) until such time as a 
total personal shareholding equivalent to 100% of pre-tax base salary has been achieved. This requirement will not apply to participants to the scheme 
other than the Executives.
It should be noted that at 30 June 2014 all Executives held shares worth significantly more than the shareholding guideline level.
The holdings of the Executive Directors and their families as at 30 June 2014 are as follows:
Beneficial/
Non-Beneficial
At 1 July 2013 
(or date of 
appointment)
Movement in 
year
At 
30 June 2014
At 
30 June 2014 
Percentage
Charles J Brady Beneficial 3,412,151 (355,722) 3,056,429 3.55%
Anthony M Foye Beneficial 435,000 — 435,000 0.51%
Neil E Smith Beneficial 379,609 21,729 401,338 0.47%
Mark Asplin Beneficial 41,390 — 41,390 0.05%
Derek Carter Beneficial 10,000 — 10,000 0.01%
Terence B Garthwaite Beneficial 5,000 — 5,000 0.01%
No changes have occurred between the shareholdings as described above and the date of issuance of this report.
As at 30 June 2014 the Company’s share price was 195.25p and its highest and lowest share prices during the year ended 30 June 2014 were 290.25p 
and 160.00p respectively. Interests are shown as a percentage of shares in issue at 30 June 2014.
Executive Directors’ interests under share schemes (audited information)
Awards held under the PSP by each person who was a Director at 30 June 2014 are as follows: 
Award date
Number of 
shares at 
 1 July 2013
Granted 
during the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the year
Number of
shares at 
30 June 2014*
Date which 
awards vest
Charles J Brady 20 Oct 2010 202,374 — (91,068) (111,306) — 20 Oct 2013
Charles J Brady 19 Oct 2011 112,301 — — — 112,301 19 Oct 2014
Charles J Brady 17 Oct 2012 122,400 — — — 122,400 17 Oct 2015
Charles J Brady 19 Sep 2013 — 94,165 — — 94,165 19 Sept 2016
Anthony M Foye 17 Oct 2012 183,111 — — — 183,111 17 Oct 2015
Anthony M Foye 19 Sep 2013 — 63,722 — — 63,722 19 Sept 2016
Neil E Smith 20 Oct 2010 71,830 — (32,323) (39,507) — 20 Oct 2013
Neil E Smith 19 Oct 2011 71,509 — — — 71,509 19 Oct 2014
Neil E Smith 17 Oct 2012 93,528 — — — 93,528 17 Oct 2015
Neil E Smith 19 Sep 2013 — 71,953 — — 71,953 19 Sept 2016
* Unvested and subject to performance conditions.
Dilution (unaudited information)
Under the rules of the PSP , awards under the unvested Company’s discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by a new issue of shares must not 
exceed 5.0% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares under all 
plans (both discretionary and all-employee) over a ten year period must not exceed 10.0% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10 year 
period.
At 30 June 2014, the headroom under the Company’s 5.0% and 10.0% limits was 2,622,311 and 4,816,031 shares respectively, out of an issued 
share capital of 86,103,137 shares.
www.wilmington.co.uk
53
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14
WILMINGTON GROUP FTSE SMALL CAP FTSE ALL SHARE MEDIA
5 Years  – Total Return (rebased to 100)  
Wilmington FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share Media 
 
Growth 116.0% 126.3% 176.8% 
CAGR '09-'14 16.6% 17.7% 22.6% 
Source: Thomson Data Stream 
Pensions related benefits (audited information)
Executive Directors did not participate in a contribution scheme.
Payments to past Directors (audited information)
R B Brookes received £179k during the year in respect of the 2010 PSP 
scheme that vested on 30 June 2013. In respect of the year to 30 June 
2013 R B Brookes received a salary of £127k (£12k was sacrificed to an 
individual pension scheme) and taxable benefits of £15k.
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
No payments for loss of office have been made during the period.
Performance graph and table (unaudited information)
The graph included in the annual report on the Company website (due 
for publication in October 2014) shows, for the year ended 30 June 
2014 and for each of the previous four years, the total shareholder 
return (calculated in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized 
Company and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2013) on a 
holding of the Company’s ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical 
holding of shares of the same kind and number as those by reference to 
which the FTSE All-Share Media Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index 
are calculated. These indices have been chosen as the appropriate 
comparators because it is these indices within which the Company’s 
shares are quoted.
OUR GOVERNANCE
Chief Executive single figure (unaudited information)
Total 
Remuneration 
£’000
Annual Bonus
 as a % of 
maximum 
opportunity
%
PSP as a % 
of maximum 
number of 
shares
%
2013/14 Charles J Brady 943 88.6% 91.84%
2012/13 Charles J Brady 935 80.0% 55.00%
2011/12 Charles J Brady 580 55.2% —
2010/11 Charles J Brady 535 46.3% —
2009/10 Charles J Brady 393 2.8% —
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive and employees (unaudited information)
The percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2012/13 and 2013/14 for the Chief Executive and for all employees in 
the Group was:
Salary
Taxable 
benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executives 0.0% 0.0% 10.6%
Employee population 2.0% 0.0% 35.0%
54
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited information)
The difference in actual expenditure between 2012/13 and 2013/14 on remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders 
by way of dividend are set out in the table below:
2013/14
£’000
2012/13
£’000
Expenditure on remuneration for all employees 33,655 30,877
Distributions to shareholders by way of a dividend 6,058 5,947
Details of the Remuneration Committee, advisers to the Committee and their fees (unaudited information)
Details of the Directors who were members of the Committee during the year are disclosed on pages 36 and 37. The Committee has also received 
assistance from the Chief Executive with respect to the remuneration of the other Executive Directors and on the Company’s remuneration policy more 
generally. He is not in attendance when his own remuneration is discussed.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice from the following external consultants:
Committees advisers
Fees for 
committee 
assistance
£’000
Aon Hewitt Limited (formerly Hewitt New Bridge Street Limited) provided advice to the Committee on market practice, governance and 
performance analysis. 4
Deloitte LLP provided advice to the Committee on the new regulations which impacts the presentation of the Remuneration Report. 12
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee in 2013. Aon Hewitt Limited was appointed by the Committee in previous years. The Committee took 
into account the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct when reviewing the appointment of Aon Hewitt Limited and Deloitte LLP .
The Committee is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent. 
Details of the attendance of the Committee are set out in the table below:
Committee member Member since
Committee 
Meetings 
attended
Committee 
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Nathalie Schwarz (Committee chairman) December 2011 1 1
Derek Carter December 2011 2 2
Mark Asplin April 2005 2 2
Terence B Garthwaite June 2005 2 2
Statement of voting at general meeting (unaudited information)
At the AGM held on 5 November 2013 the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders.
Total number 
of votes
% of votes 
cast
For 62,698,300 100%
Against — 0%
Total votes cast (for and against) 62,698,300 
Votes withheld 5,141,481 
Total votes (including withheld votes) 67,839,781
www.wilmington.co.uk
55
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
OUR GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION POLICY
The table below sets out the Company’s Directors’ remuneration policy which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, 
shall take binding effect from the close of that meeting.
BASE SALARY
PURPOSE AND LINK  
TO STRATEGY
Core element of fixed remuneration set at a market competitive level with the aim to recruit, motivate and retain 
Directors of the calibre required.
OPERATION
The Committee ordinarily reviews base salaries annually taking into account:
•	 Performance of the Group and pay conditions elsewhere in the workforce;
•	 Performance of the individual;
•	 Changes in position or responsibility; and
•	 Market competitiveness.
The Committee periodically takes external advice to benchmark salaries by reference to Executives with similar 
positions in comparator organisations. In considering relevant benchmarking the Committee is also aware of the risk 
of an upward pay ratchet through placing undue emphasis on comparator pay surveys.
Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
OPPORTUNITY
While there is no maximum salary, increases will normally be in line with the typical level of salary increase awarded (in 
percentage of salary terms) to other employees in the Group. 
Salary increases above this level may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as:
•	 where an Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change in scope or responsibility;
•	 a new Executive Director being moved to market positioning over time; 
•	 where there has been a significant change in market practice;
•	 where there has been a significant change in the size and/or complexity of the business.
Such increases may be implemented over such time period as the Committee deems appropriate.
PERFORMANCE METRIC
Not applicable.
PENSION
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO STRATEGY
Helps recruit and retain Executives.
Rewards sustained contribution and commitment to the Group.
Provides market competitive post-employment benefits.
OPERATION
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme. 
The Committee has the discretion to pay cash supplements in lieu of pension contributions in certain circumstances.
OPPORTUNITY
The Company contributes up to 10% of salary to a pension scheme on behalf of the Executive Directors, and/or as a 
salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions where appropriate. 
Executive Directors are entitled to elect to sacrifice part of their salary and bonus into a personal pension scheme.
PERFORMANCE METRIC
Not applicable.
56
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
TAXABLE BENEFITS
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO STRATEGY
Fixed element of remuneration set at a market competitive level with the aim to recruit, motivate and retain Directors of 
the calibre required.
OPERATION
Executive Directors receive benefits in line with market practice and principally include a fully expensed car or 
car allowance and private medical cover (for the Executive Director and his or her family), and permanent health 
insurance.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances and response to market pressures.
OPPORTUNITY
Whilst the Committee has not set an absolute maximum on the level of benefits Executive Directors may receive, the 
value of the benefit is set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned taking into account 
relevant market levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual circumstances.
PERFORMANCE METRIC
Not applicable.
ANNUAL BONUS
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO STRATEGY
Rewards the achievement of the Group strategy of sustainable growth.
OPERATION
Targets are reviewed annually and any pay-out is determined by the Committee after the year-end based on targets 
set for the financial period.
The bonus plan rules contain provisions such that appropriate means of redress may be sought (i.e. claw back) if it 
transpires that a bonus was paid for performance in a year which later proves to have materially misstated.
There is no scope to make discretionary bonus payments outside of the scope of the bonus plan
OPPORTUNITY
The maximum bonus is 100% of base salary.
PERFORMANCE METRIC
Stretching targets are set each year reflecting the business priorities which underpin Group strategy and align to key 
performance indicators.
The annual bonus is determined based on performance against a mix of targets. The majority will be determined by 
financial measures and may include adjusted profit, return on equity (‘ROE’) and Return on Sale (‘ROS’) targets.
Vesting of financial metrics will apply on a sliding scale up to 100% of maximum potential for this element of the bonus 
based on the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vesting of non-financial or individual metrics (where applicable) will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% based on 
the Committee’s assessment of the extent to which non-financial or individual performance metrics has been met.
www.wilmington.co.uk
57
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
OUR GOVERNANCE
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (‘PSP’)
PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO STRATEGY
Incentivises Executive Directors to achieve returns for shareholders over a longer time frame.
OPERATION
Executive Directors may receive awards in the form of conditional awards of shares, options to acquire shares for nil 
cost or as cash settled equivalents. Share awards may be settled in cash at the election of the Committee.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions normally over a three year measurement period.
The Committee will determine performance conditions prior to each Award, with performance measured over a single 
period of three years with no provision to re-test.
The Committee may operate claw back if, at any time before the later of (i) the second anniversary of the vesting  
of an award and (ii) the publication of the Company’s second set of audited financial accounts following such vesting, 
there has been a material misstatement of the Company’s financial accounts, an error occurred when assessing the 
number of shares over which a PSP award vests, or the participant has been guilty of gross misconduct. In these 
circumstances, there may be a proportionate reduction of future bonuses and/or share awards made under the  
PSP to reflect the overpayment of shares, or the participant may be required to repay the overpaid amounts from 
personal funds. 
An additional payment (in the form of cash or shares) may be made in respect of shares which vest under the PSP 
to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares in respect of record dates during the 
vesting period. The Committee shall determine the basis on which the value of such dividends shall be calculated, and 
may assume the reinvestment of dividends in the Company’s shares on a cumulative basis.
OPPORTUNITY
The maximum award limit under the PSP scheme will be 150% of base salary.
PERFORMANCE METRIC
The awards under the PSP will be based on a mix of key longer term metrics for the Group. These will be metrics 
which the Committee considers to be the most appropriate measures of longer term performance and could include 
TSR, EPS and ROE. 
Where more than one performance condition applies, these will normally apply with an equal weighting.
The threshold pay-out level under the PSP is 25% of the maximum award.
There will usually be straight line vesting between threshold and maximum performance.
58
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The Committee may amend the terms of awards under the PSP 
in accordance with the PSP rules in the event of a variation of the 
Company’s share capital, demerger, special dividend or other similar 
event. The Committee may amend the rules of the PSP and awards 
granted under it within the scope defined in the PSP rules as approved by 
shareholders. 
Explanation of performance metrics chosen
Performance measures for the annual bonus and PSP are reviewed 
annually to ensure they continue to reflect the business strategy and 
remain sufficiently stretching. 
The Committee considers that adjusted profit, Return on Equity (‘ROE’) 
and Return on Sale (‘ROS’) targets are closely aligned to the Group’s 
key performance metrics and in application to the annual bonus alone 
provide a balanced measure of performance that encourages sustainable 
growth. The application of TSR, EPS and ROE targets to the PSP align 
management’s objectives with those of shareholders for the following 
reasons:
•	 The EPS target will reward significant and sustained increase in 
earnings that would be expected to flow through into shareholder 
value. For the participants, this will also deliver a strong ‘line of sight’ as 
it will be straightforward to evaluate and communicate;
•	 The ROE performance condition will reward Executives for delivery of 
returns to shareholders but adding a further discipline of ensuring the 
most efficient use of shareholders’ funds; and
•	 The TSR performance condition will provide a balance to the financial 
performance conditions by rewarding relative share price performance 
against the companies comprising the FTSE Small Cap Index and 
ensures that a share price-based discipline in the package (in the 
absence of options) is retained. This will ensure that management can 
be rewarded for delivering superior market returns.
The Committee considers that this blend of measures provides a link to 
the Company’s strategy, which is to create a sustained improvement in 
underlying performance and maximise returns to shareholders.
When setting the performance targets, the Committee will take into 
account a number of different reference points, which may include the 
Company’s business plans and strategy and market environment. Full 
vesting will only occur for what the Committee considers to be stretching 
performance.
The Committee may vary any performance measure if an event occurs 
which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to vary the 
measure, provided that any such variation is fair and reasonable and (in 
the opinion of the Committee) the altered performance measure would 
be not materially less difficult to satisfy than the unaltered performance 
measure would have been but for the event in question. If the Committee 
were to make such a variation, a full explanation would be given in the 
next Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Legacy matters
The Committee also retains discretion to make payments outside of this 
Policy:
•	 to satisfy payments to Executive Directors made under contractual 
commitments made prior to (and not in contemplation of) the individual 
becoming an Executive Director; and
•	 to satisfy contractual commitments under legacy remuneration 
arrangements.
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy 
The following charts set out for each of the Executive Directors an 
illustration of the application for 2014/15 of the remuneration policy set 
out above. The charts show the split of remuneration between fixed pay 
and variable pay in the Policy for:
•	 minimum remuneration receivable — salary, fees, taxable benefits and 
pension;
•	 the remuneration receivable if the Director was, in respect of any 
performance measures or targets, performing in line with the 
Company’s expectation; and
•	 maximum remuneration receivable (not allowing for any share price 
appreciation).
www.wilmington.co.uk
59
Stock Code: WIL DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
OUR GOVERNANCE
Charles J Brady
Total remuneration (£000)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Maximum 
performance
£258
In line with 
expectations
£258
Minimum 
performance
£258
PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay
Pedro Ros
£170
£189
Total remuneration (£000)
0
400
200
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum 
performance
£379
In line with 
expectations
£379
£340
£568
Minimum 
performance
£379
PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay
Neil E Smith
£133
£156
Total remuneration (£000)
0
600
300
900
1200
1,500
Maximum 
performance
£311
In line with 
expectations
£311
£265
£467
Minimum 
performance
£311
PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay
Anthony M Foye
£118
£141
Total remuneration (£000)
0
400
200
600
800
1,000
Maximum 
performance
£282
In line with 
expectations
£282
£236
£422
Minimum 
performance
£282
PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay
The Committee believes an appropriate proportion of the Executive Directors’ remuneration links reward to corporate and individual performance and 
is aligned to the Group’s strategic priorities.
Charles J Brady will step down as Chief Executive on 1 October 2014. At the request of the Board Charlie has agreed to stay on in a part time capacity 
as an Executive Director on the plc Board. Pedro Ros joined the Board on 14 July 2014 and will assume the role of Chief Executive on 1 October 2014.
Amounts shown for Pedro Ros have been time pro-rated from 14 July 2014.
In illustrating the potential reward the following assumptions have been made:
BASIC PERFORMANCE IN LINE WITH EXPECTATIONS MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE
Fixed pay
Based on fixed pay effective as at 1 July 2014
Annual bonus
No bonus 50% of salary 100% of salary
PSP
No PSP vesting 33% of the PSP award vests (i.e. 50% of salary) 150% of salary
60
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Non-executive Directors 
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance 
metrics
Non-executive 
Director Fees
Sole element of Non-
executive Director 
remuneration set at a 
level that reflects market 
conditions and is sufficient 
to attract individuals with 
appropriate knowledge and 
experience.
Fees are reviewed periodically and amended to 
reflect any change in responsibilities and time 
commitments. Where appropriate external advice  
is taken on setting market competitive fees. 
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in 
any of the Group’s share incentive plans nor do they 
receive any benefits or pension contributions. 
Non-executive Directors may be eligible to receive 
benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel 
costs or other benefits that may be appropriate.
Fees are based on the time 
commitment and responsibilities 
of the role.
Fees are subject to an overall 
cap as set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association.
Not applicable
Differences in policy from the wider employee population
The Company values its wider workforce and aims to provide a 
remuneration package that is market competitive, complies with any 
statutory requirements and is applied fairly and equitably across the wider 
employee population. Where remuneration is not determined by statutory 
regulation, the Company operates the same core principles as it does for 
Executive Directors namely:
•	 We remunerate people in a manner that allows for stability of the 
business and the opportunity for sustainable long term growth; and
•	 We seek to remunerate fairly and consistently for each role with due 
regard to the market place, internal consistency and the Company’s 
ability to pay.
Recruitment remuneration policy
The objective of this policy is to allow the Committee to offer remuneration 
packages which facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre 
to lead the business and effectively execute the strategy for shareholders. 
When appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee seeks to 
ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and 
not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including 
the calibre of the individual, the candidate’s existing remuneration 
package, and the specific circumstances of the individual including the 
jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically 
align the remuneration package with the above Policy. The Committee 
may include other elements of pay which it considers are appropriate, 
however, this discretion is capped and is subject to the principles and the 
limits referred to below. 
•	 Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the 
experience of the Director being appointed. This may include 
agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with 
increased experience and/or responsibilities, subject to good 
performance, where it is considered appropriate.
•	 Pension and benefits will only be provided in line with the above Policy; 
and
•	 The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive 
payments (for example a ‘guaranteed sign-on bonus’). 
•	 Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
•	 an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role 
on a short-term basis;
•	 if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-
executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term 
basis;
•	 if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it 
would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive 
award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess 
performance. Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out 
below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the 
year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is 
provided on a fair and appropriate basis; and
•	 if the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the 
position, it is the Company’s policy to allow reasonable relocation, 
travel and subsistence payments. Any such payments will be at the 
discretion of the Committee. 
•	 The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance 
period and vesting period of the annual bonus or PSP , subject to the 
rules of the PSP , if the Committee determines that the circumstances 
of the recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale will be clearly 
explained in the following Directors’ Remuneration Report.
•	 The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted 
(excluding ‘buyout’ awards as referred to below) is 250% of salary.
www.wilmington.co.uk
61
Stock Code: WIL The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an 
employee to ‘buy out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving 
a previous employer. In doing so the Committee will take account of 
relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to 
the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have 
vested. The Committee will generally seek to structure buy out awards 
or payments on a comparable basis to the remuneration arrangements 
forfeited. Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum 
level of variable remuneration referred to above. Where considered 
appropriate, such special recruitment awards will be liable to forfeiture or 
‘claw back’ on early departure.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as 
possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If necessary and 
subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be 
granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which 
allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the 
recruitment of an Executive Director. Where a position is filled internally, 
any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay 
elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms. 
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director 
will be in line with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
Payments for loss of office 
The Company has adopted the following policy on Executives’ service contracts:
Notice period 12 months’ notice period or less shall apply.
Termination payments and  
mitigation
Termination payments are limited to payment of 12 months’ salary, contractual pension amounts and benefits.
The policy is that, as is considered appropriate at the time, the departing Director may work, or be placed on 
garden leave, for all or part of his notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the service 
agreement. 
The Committee will consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Director when appropriate to 
do so, having regard to the circumstances.
Annual bonus The decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors including 
the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Any 
bonus payment would typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at the usual time (although 
the Committee retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances). 
PSP Unvested awards held by the Director under the Company’s PSP will lapse or vest in accordance with the rules of 
the plan, which have been approved by shareholders. In summary, the plan rules provide that awards can vest if 
employment ends by reason of redundancy, retirement, ill health or disability, death, sale of the Director’s employer 
out of the Group or any other reason determined by the Committee. The Committee shall determine whether the 
award will vest at cessation or the normal vesting date. In either case, the extent of vesting will be determined 
by the Committee taking into account the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions and, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, applying a pro-rate reduction based on the period from the date of grant to the 
date of cessation relative to a three year period. 
Change of control Awards under the PSP will generally vest early on a takeover or other relevant corporate event. The Committee 
will determine the level of vesting taking into account the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions and, 
unless the Committee determines otherwise, a pro-rate reduction based on the period from the date of grant to the 
date of the relevant event relative to a three year period. 
Other payments In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement and  
legal fees.
Where a ‘buyout’ or other award is made outside the Company’s PSP in connection with the recruitment of an 
Executive Director, as permitted under the Listing Rules, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of 
the award.
OUR GOVERNANCE
62
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where 
such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal 
obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by 
way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with 
the termination of a Director’s office or employment. 
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment with the notice 
periods referred to below, with compensation limited to fees for the 
duration of the notice period.
Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment 
The existing Executive Directors’ contracts are on a rolling basis and may 
be terminated on 12 months’ notice by the Company or the Executive. 
All Non-executive Directors have initial fixed term agreements with the 
Company of no more than three years. 
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and notice periods are  
set out below: 
Executive Directors
Contract 
commencement 
date Notice period
Charles J Brady Feb 2002 12 months
Charles J Brady* Jan 2015 n/a
†
Pedro Ros July 2014 12 months
Anthony M Foye Sept 2012 12 months
Neil E Smith Dec 2011 12 months
Non-executive Directors
Date of initial 
appointment Notice period
Mark Asplin Apr 2005 6 months
Terence B Garthwaite June 2005 3 months
Derek Carter Dec 2011 3 months
Nathalie Schwarz Dec 2011 3 months
*  Charles Brady is expected to remain on the Board in a part time capacity as an Executive 
Director. Under a new contract, which replaces the Feb 2002 contract, his remuneration consists 
of base salary and taxable benefits set at a level which reflects his part time status. Charles 
Brady will not participate in the annual bonus scheme or be eligible for future grants of awards 
under the PSP .
†
 Contract period is 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions  
elsewhere in the Company
The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions 
elsewhere in the Company when considering the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration. When considering base salary increases, the Committee 
reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to other employees. 
Employees are not actively consulted on Directors’ remuneration.
Non-executive appointments at other companies
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors may, by agreement 
with the Board, serve as Non-executives of other companies and retain 
any fees payable for their services.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with 
shareholders and welcomes feedback on Executive and Non-executive 
Directors’ remuneration.
www.wilmington.co.uk
63
Stock Code: WIL The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report 
on Directors’ Remuneration and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group 
and parent company financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
•	 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•	 State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
•	 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Report on Directors’ Remuneration comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess a company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 36 
and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
•	 The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Each of the Directors also confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
•	 He or she has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
Approved on behalf of the Board by:
Richard Cockton 
Company Secretary
17 September 2014
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
OUR GOVERNANCE
64
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL
65 23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2 •••••••
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fully audited results 
for the year.
68  Independent Auditors’ Report
72  Financial Statements
113  Pro Forma Five Year Financial Summary (Unaudited)
114  Shareholder Notes
115  Advisers and Corporate Calendar
Reflecting the 
diversity of our 
customers
A positive impact
We seek to employ a workforce that reflects both the diversity of 
our customers and the communities where we have presence. 
We strive to provide all our employees the opportunity to grow 
and develop whilst employed at Wilmington. this includes 
providing excellent working conditions, the latest technology and 
appropriate training and develpoment.
read more in 
corporate, environment and 
Social responsibility 
24 68
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 30 June 2014 
and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial reporting Standards (IFrSs) 
as adopted by the european Union;
•	 the company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial reporting Standards (IFrSs) 
as adopted by the european Union and as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
this opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder 
of this report.
What we have audited
the Group financial statements and company financial statements (the 
“financial statements”), which are prepared by Wilmington Group plc, 
comprise:
•	 the Group and company balance sheets as at 30 June 2014;
•	 the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the year then ended;
•	 the Group and company cash flow statements for the year then 
ended;
•	 the Group and company statements of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
•	 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFrSs as adopted by the european 
Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the companies Act 2006.
certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have 
been presented elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts (the 
“Annual report”), rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
these are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error. this includes an assessment of: 
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
the company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. these helped us to determine 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole.
based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the Group financial statements as a whole to be £800,000. this is 
approximately 5% of Group Adjusted Profit before t ax, as we believe that 
this represents the most appropriate measure of the trading performance 
of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £35,000 as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting 
for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of the audit
the Group is structured into six business segments being Accountancy, 
banking and compliance, business Intelligence, Healthcare, Legal 
and Pensions. the Group financial statements are a consolidation of 
reporting units that make up the six business segments, spread across 
four geographic regions, being the United Kingdom, europe (excluding 
the UK), North America, and the rest of the World, and the centralised 
functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined 
the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, 
as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within Pwc UK 
and from other Pwc network firms operating under our instruction. Where 
the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level 
of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting 
units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
each business segment comprises a number of legal entities or 
components. Pwc UK performed audits of complete information for 
each of the Group’s significant components, with specified and analytical 
procedures being performed over remaining material and immaterial 
financial statement line items, respectively.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Wilmington Group plc
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 69
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in these 
areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year. this is not a complete list of all risks or areas of 
focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit committee. their report on those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 46 and 47.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT 
the determination of whether or not an impairment charge for goodwill 
or intangible assets was necessary involved significant judgements 
about the future results of the business, including future revenues and 
growth as well as the discount factor used.
Whilst no impairment charge was booked in the year ended 30 June 
2014, we focused on this area in light of the impairment charge 
recorded against Goodwill in the business Intelligence segment in 
2013 and the difficult trading conditions experienced by the Legal and 
Healthcare segments during 2014. 
refer to note 12 to the financial statements.
We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow forecasts for the business 
Intelligence, Healthcare and Legal segments, and the process by 
which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest 
board approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations. We 
challenged:
•	 the Directors’ key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the 
forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic and 
industry forecasts; and
•	 the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and 
comparable organisations.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of 
the cash flow forecasts, including historic profit margins achieved 
and growth rates. Having ascertained the extent of change in those 
assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required 
for the goodwill of intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the 
likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
ACCOUNTING FOR THE COMPLIANCE WEEK ACQUISITION
We focused on this area because business combinations are inherently 
complex transactions which require the Directors to exercise a 
significant level of judgement, particularly around the valuation of the 
assets and liabilities acquired and the timing of their recognition. 
refer to note 11 to the financial statements.
We evaluated the Directors’ assessment of this transaction as a 
business combination and challenged the rationale for the accounting 
principles applied around the timing of recognition of certain assets 
and liabilities in line with IFrS. We obtained the Directors’ valuations of 
the acquired assets and liabilities and evaluated these by comparing 
cash flow forecasts to board approved plans, post-acquisition trading 
results and external US economic outlooks. In addition, we challenged 
the assumptions supporting the acquisition synergies and tax benefits 
by comparing these to supporting third party market data, as well as 
comparing forecasts to historic performance. 
We performed sensitivity analysis over key drivers within the cash flow 
forecasts, including revenue, operating profit and estimated synergies, 
as well as the key assumptions around discount and growth rates. 
We then considered the likelihood of such movement in these key 
assumptions arising in assessing the appropriateness of the overall 
valuations.
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 70
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Wilmington Group plc
RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition.
We focused on the risk that revenue may have been recognised for 
all revenue streams for transactions which had not occurred or been 
recorded in the incorrect reporting period.
Our testing of revenue transactions, to assess whether a service had 
been provided or a sale had occurred, focused on understanding 
whether cash had been received and reading extracts of the related 
contracts. We tested a sample of revenue transactions back to cash 
receipts and the related contracts.
Where revenue was recorded through journal entries, we performed 
testing to appropriate supporting documentation to establish whether a 
service had been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year.
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including 
the arrangements for staff to ‘whistle blow’ inappropriate actions, and 
interviewed senior management and the Group’s internal audit function. 
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements 
relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors 
that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. the key 
areas in which we challenged management are reflected in the other 
areas of focus above, as well as estimates of provisions for receivables 
and assumptions used in the accounting for share-based payments. We 
also tested journal entries.
Going concern
Under the Listing rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it 
is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern 
basis of accounting. the going concern basis presumes that the Group 
and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that 
the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the 
financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and parent 
company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE 
COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
•	 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the companies Act 2006.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO 
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations 
received
Under the companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•	 the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 71
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing rules we are required to review the part of the 
corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK corporate Governance code (‘the code’). 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
On page 44 of the Annual report, as required by the code Provision 
c.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual report taken 
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and 
company’s performance, business model and strategy. On pages 46 
and 47, as required by c.3.8 of the code, the Audit committee has set 
out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we 
are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•	 the section of the Annual report describing the work of the Audit 
committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by 
us to the Audit committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
•	 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement set out 
on page 64, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of  
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices board’s 
ethical Standards for Auditors.
this report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the company’s members as a body in accordance with chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
David Snell 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of 
Pricewaterhousecoopers LLP 
chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditors 
London 
17 September 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 72
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Notes
Adjusted 
results 
June 2014
£’000
Adjusting 
items (note 5)
June 2014
£’000
Statutory 
results
June 2014
£’000
Adjusted
results
June 2013
£’000
Adjusting
items (note 5)
June 2013
£’000
Statutory 
results
June 2013
£’000
Continuing operations 
Revenue 3 90,024 — 90,024 85,048 — 85,048 
Net operating expenses 4 (71,320) (764) (72,084) (68,183) (1,325) (69,508)
Gain on disposal of property 5 — — — — 3,325 3,325
Amortisation 5 — (6,286) (6,286) — (6,105) (6,105) 
Impairment 5 — — — — (4,500) (4,500) 
Share-based payments 5 — (924) (924) — (888) (888) 
Operating profit 18,704 (7,974) 10,730 16,865 (9,493) 7,372 
Net finance costs 6 (2,099) (39) (2,138) (2,163) (93) (2,256)
Profit before tax 16,605 (8,013) 8,592 14,702 (9,586) 5,116 
t axation 7 (2,034) (1,484)
Profit for the year 6,558 3,632 
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 6,485 3,537 
Non-controlling interests 24 73  95 
6,558 3,632 
earnings per share attributable to 
the owners of the parent:
basic (p) 9 7.59p 4.17p 
Diluted (p) 9 7.39p 4.07p 
Adjusted earnings per share 
attributable to the owners of the 
parent:
basic (p) 9 14.79p 13.06p
Diluted (p) 9 14.40p 12.74p
the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME 
STATEMENT
for the year ended 30 June 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 73
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Year ended
30 June 
2014
£’000
Year ended
30 June
 2013
£’000
Profit for the year 6,558 3,632 
Other comprehensive income:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement
Net fair value movements on interest rate swaps 381 206
currency translation differences (1,001) 51
Net investment hedges 497 21
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax (123) 278 
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,435 3,910 
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent 6,362 3,815 
– Non-controlling interests 73 95 
6,435 3,910 
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 June 2014
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 74
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Group Company
Notes
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 76,855 73,282 — — 
Intangible assets 13 28,746 31,493 — 62 
Property, plant and equipment 14 5,727 5,909 951 1,092 
Investments in subsidiaries 15  — — 49,193 48,591 
Deferred tax assets 21 562 887 106 507 
t rade and other receivables 16 — — 61,658 70,169
111,890 111,571 111,908 120,421 
Current assets
t rade and other receivables 16 22,389 21,379 87 88 
cash and cash equivalents 5,020 7,803 19 47 
Derivative financial instruments 17 37 — 37 —
27,446 29,182 143 135 
Non-current assets held for sale  — 657 — — 
Total assets 139,336 141,410 112,051 120,556 
Current liabilities
t rade and other payables 18 (40,635) (39,254) (3,882) (3,199) 
current tax liabilities (1,333) (1,533) — — 
Deferred consideration – cash settled (343) (224) (56) (81)
Derivative financial liabilities 17 (78) (63) (78) (63) 
borrowings 19 (642) (890) (6,835) (8,530) 
(43,031) (41,964) (10,851) (11,873)
Non-current liabilities
borrowings 19 (37,673) (39,751) (14,632) (19,751) 
Deferred consideration – equity settled (728) (619) (728) (619)
Deferred consideration – cash settled — (261) — —
Derivative financial instruments 17 (490) (1,096) (490) (1,096)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (4,670) (5,822) — —
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests (100) (183) — —
(43,661) (47,732) (15,850) (21,466) 
Total liabilities (86,692) (89,696) (26,701) (33,339) 
Net assets 52,644 51,714 85,350 87,217 
Equity
Share capital 22 4,305 4,305 4,305 4,305 
Share premium 22 45,231 45,231 45,231 45,231 
t reasury shares 22 (878) (2,356) (878) (2,356)
t ranslation reserve (942) 59 — —
Share-based payments reserve 911 1,560 911 1,560
retained earnings 3,782 2,770 35,781 38,477
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 52,409 51,569 85,350 87,217 
Non-controlling interests 24 235 145 — —
Total equity 52,644 51,714 85,350 87,217 
the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. the financial statements on pages 72 to 112 were 
approved and authorised for issue by the board and signed on their behalf on 17 September 2014.
Anthony M Foye   Charles J Brady 
chief Finance Officer   chief executive 
registered number: 3015847
BALANCE SHEETS
as at 30 June 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 75
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Share capital, 
share premium 
and treasury 
shares 
(note 22) 
£’000
Share-based 
payments 
reserve 
£’000
t ranslation 
reserve 
£’000
retained 
earnings 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests 
(note 24) 
£’000
t otal 
equity 
£’000
Group
At 1 July 2012 45,528 815 93 5,160 51,596 — 51,596
Profit for the year — — — 3,537 3,537 95 3,632
Other comprehensive income for 
the year — — 51 227 278 — 278
45,528 815 144 8,924 55,411 95 55,506
Dividends — — — (5,947) (5,947) (27) (5,974)
Share-based payments — 745 — 322 1,067 — 1,067
t ranslation reserve realised on 
overseas subsidiary — — (85) 85 — — —
reissue of treasury shares 1,652 — — (614) 1,038 — 1,038
Movement in non-controlling 
interests — — — — — 80 80
Movements in offset of provisions 
for the future purchase of non-
controlling interests — — — — — (3) (3)
At 30 June 2013 47,180 1,560 59 2,770 51,569 145 51,714
Profit for the year — — — 6,485 6,485 73 6,558
Other comprehensive income for 
the year — — (1,001) 878 (123) — (123)
47,180 1,560 (942) 10,133 57,931 218 58,149
Dividends — — — (6,058) (6,058) (26) (6,084)
Share-based payments — 440 — 41 481 — 481
reissue of treasury shares 1,478 (1,089) — (334) 55 — 55
Movements in non-controlling 
interests — — — — — 52 52
Movements in offset of provisions 
for the future purchase of non-
controlling interests — — — — — (9) (9)
At 30 June 2014 48,658 911 (942) 3,782 52,409 235 52,644
the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF  
CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 June 2014
BALANCE SHEETS
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 76
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Share capital, 
share premium 
and treasury 
shares 
(note 22) 
£’000
 Share-based 
payments 
reserve 
£’000
retained 
earnings 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Company
At 1 July 2012 45,528 815 19,506 65,849
Profit for the year — — 25,227 25,227
Net fair value movements on interest rate swaps — — 211 211
45,528 815 44,944 91,287
Dividends to shareholders — — (5,947) (5,947)
Share-based payments — 745 94 839
reissue of treasury shares 1,652 - (614) 1,038
At 1 July 2013 47,180 1,560 38,477 87,217
Profit for the year — — 3,007 3,007
Net fair value movements on interest rate swaps — — 381 381
47,180 1,560 41,865 90,605
Dividends to shareholders — — (6,058) (6,058)
Share-based payments — 440 308 748
reissue of treasury shares 1,478 (1,089) (334) 55
At 30 June 2014 48,658 911 35,781 85,350
the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 30 June 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 77
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
Group Company
Notes
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
 £’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
 £’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
 £’000
Year ended
30 June
2013
 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
cash generated from operations before adjusting items 28 20,204 19,385 16,741 33,453
cash flows for adjusting items – operating activities (372) (239) (108) (392)
cash flows for adjusting items – share based payments (358) — (106) —
Cash generated from operations 19,474 19,146 16,527 33,061
Net finance costs paid (1,863) (2,011) (1,246) (1,913)
t ax paid (3,285) (2,926) (2,268) (2,078) 
Net cash generated from operating activities 14,326 14,209 13,013 29,070
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of businesses (7,342) (1,151) (60) — 
Deferred consideration paid (168) (171) — — 
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired — (4,976) — (5,523) 
Purchase of non-controlling interests 24 (58) (1,707) — — 
cash received from non-controlling interest  — 80 — —
cash flows for adjusting items – investing activities (267) (1,025) (36) (153)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (883) (1,217) — —
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 710 4,450 39 —
Purchase of intangible assets 13 (955) (764) — (28)
Net cash used in investing activities (8,963) (6,481) (57) (5,704)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 8 (6,058) (5,947) (6,058) (5,947)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (26) (27) — —
reissue of treasury shares  55 1,038 55 1,038 
(Decrease)/increase in long-term loans (1,748) 2,286 (5,286) (17,714) 
Net cash used in financing activities (7,777) (2,650) (11,289) (22,623) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents, net of 
bank overdrafts (2,414) 5,078 1,667 743 
Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts at beginning of the year 6,913 1,795 (8,483) (9,226) 
Exchange (losses)/gains on cash and cash equivalents (121) 40 — —
Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts at end of the year 4,378 6,913 (6,816) (8,483)
Reconciliation of net debt
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 7,803  3,954  47  1 
bank overdrafts at beginning of the year  19 (890) (2,159) (8,530) (9,227) 
bank loans at beginning of the year 19 (40,286) (38,000) (20,286) (38,000) 
Net debt at beginning of the year (33,373) (36,205) (28,769) (47,226) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (net of bank overdrafts) (2,535)  5,118  1,667  743 
Net repayment/(drawdown) in bank loans 1,505 (2,286)  5,286  17,714 
exchange gain on bank loans 740  —  — — 
cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 5,020  7,803  19  47 
bank overdrafts at end of the year 19 (642) (890) (6,835) (8,530) 
bank loans at end of the year 19 (38,041) (40,286) (15,000) (20,286) 
Net debt at end of the year (33,663) (33,373) (21,816) (28,769) 
the notes on pages 78 to 112 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
CASH FLOW 
STATEMENTS
for the year ended 30 June 2014
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 78
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
General Information
the company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK. the address of its registered office is 6–14 Underwood Street, 
London, N1 7JQ.
the company is listed on the main market on the London Stock exchange. the company is the provider of information, compliance and education to 
the professional services market across the globe.
1. Statement of accounting policies
the significant accounting policies applied in preparing the Financial Statements are as follows. these policies have been consistently applied for all the 
years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a) Basis of preparation
the consolidated and company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial reporting Standards (‘IFrS’), 
including International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) and interpretations (‘IFrIcs’) issued by the International Accounting Standards board (‘IASb’) and 
its committees, and as adopted in the eU, and in accordance with the companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFrS.
the consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, except for certain financial instruments that have been 
measured at fair value. the consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of Wilmington Group plc, the Parent 
company. All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£’000s) except where otherwise indicated.
the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities. the current economic conditions continue to create 
uncertainty, particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products, and (b) the availability of bank finance for the foreseeable future. the 
Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to 
operate within the level of its current facilities. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. the Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on the Group’s borrowings is given in note 20.
b) Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
the preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
income and expenses during the year and that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
Business combinations
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in assessing the fair value of the net assets acquired on a business combination, 
in identifying and measuring intangible assets arising on a business combination, and in determining the fair value of the consideration. If the 
consideration includes an element of contingent consideration, the final amount of which is dependent on the future performance of the business, 
management assess the fair value of that contingent consideration based on their reasonable expectations of future performance. the sensitivity of the 
carrying amounts to the judgements, estimates and assumptions will vary depending on the nature and size of the acquisition.
Goodwill
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in measuring the carrying amount of goodwill. In considering whether goodwill has 
been impaired, the recoverable amount of cash generating units has been determined based on value in use calculations. these calculations require 
management to estimate future cash flows, a long-term growth rate and an appropriate discount rate. the sensitivity of the carrying amount of goodwill 
to these variables is considered in note 12.
Share-based payments
Management make judgements, estimates and assumptions in calculating share-based payment costs. Vesting conditions, other than market 
conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the grant date fair value, so are instead taken into account each period in revising the 
estimate of the number of shares expected to vest and thus in determining the charge to the Income Statement for the period. the share-based 
payment charge can also be significantly impacted by share awards that do not vest. the sensitivity of the charge to the judgements, estimates and 
assumptions made is best ascertained by understanding the nature of the share-based payment arrangements concerned, which is set out in note 23.
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 79
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
c) Basis of consolidation
the consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries. A subsidiary is an entity that is 
controlled by another entity, the parent; control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities, and is generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. Any interest in a subsidiary not attributable to the 
parent, termed a non-controlling interest, is presented in equity, separately from the equity of the owners of the parent.
the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control. Where necessary, 
accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned with the policies adopted by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, including any gains, losses, 
balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
When the Group ceases to have control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between: (i) the aggregate of the 
fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest, and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill) 
and liabilities of the subsidiary and of any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that 
subsidiary are reclassified to profit or loss. the results of subsidiaries sold or businesses discontinued during the year are shown as discontinued 
operations in the Income Statement in accordance with IFrS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’.
d) Business combinations
the acquisition method of accounting is applied in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries. the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured at cost, representing 
the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition. the 
consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity 
instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred adjusted items.
e) Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount of the asset is assessed and its carrying 
amount is reduced to that amount if lower, and any impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement. the recoverable amount is the higher 
of the value in use and of the fair value less costs to sell, where the value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived 
from the asset.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases due to a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of 
the asset does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. the reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Goodwill is not amortised, but it is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘cGUs’) for the purpose of 
impairment testing, so that the value in use is determined by reference to the discounted cash flows of the cGU. the cash flows considered are the 
expected pre-tax cash flows of the cGU, for projections over a three year period extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates. the recoverable 
amount the cGU, as for any asset, is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. If a cGU is impaired, the impairment losses are 
allocated firstly against goodwill, and then on a pro-rata basis against intangible and other assets. An impairment of goodwill cannot be reversed.
f) Foreign currencies
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). the consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the company’s 
functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the Income Statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. the results of foreign 
undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange for the year (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the 
cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions). 
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation difference in the 
translation reserve that is associated with the undertaking is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the Income Statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 80
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
f) Foreign currencies continued
Further information is provided in the financial instruments accounting policy in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are 
designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
g) Revenue
revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services, net of discounts and sales taxes. 
revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue 
and associated costs can be measured reliably. Subscription revenue is allocated to the relevant accounting periods covered by the subscription 
on a straight line basis or weighted in accordance with the timing of the service provided. event revenue is recognised in the month that the event 
takes place, hard copy advertising revenue is recognised on publication, and online Directory advertising revenue is recognised over the period that 
the advertisement remains online. Subscriptions and fees in advance are carried forward in trade and other payables as ‘subscriptions and deferred 
revenue’ and are recognised over the period the service is provided.
Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has despatched the goods to the customer, the customer has accepted the goods, and collectability 
of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
h) Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the company’s board of Directors (‘the board’) 
which is considered as the Group’s chief operating decision maker and is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the 
operating segments. the board considers the business from both a geographic and product perspective. Geographically, management considers the 
performance of the Group between the UK, europe (excluding the UK), North America and the rest of the World.
i) Adjusting items
the Group’s Income Statement separately identifies adjusting items. Such items are those that in the Directors’ judgement are one-off in nature and 
need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size and incidence. In determining whether an item or transaction should be classified as an adjusting 
item, the Directors consider quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency, predictability of occurrence and significance. this is 
consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the board. Adjusting items may not be comparable  
to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Disclosing adjusted items separately provides additional understanding of the performance of  
the Group.
j) Current and deferred income tax
current and deferred income tax is recognised as income or an expense and included in profit or loss for the period, except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, 
respectively.
the current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries 
where the company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluate positions taken in tax returns with respect 
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected 
to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of 
an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor 
loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and law) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or 
different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
k) Dividends
Dividend distributions are recognised in the consolidated Financial Statements when the shareholders right to receive payment is established. Final 
dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders, whilst interim dividend distributions are recognised 
in the period in which they are declared and paid.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 81
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
l) Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation.
Publishing rights, titles and benefits are classified as intangible assets. they are initially recorded at cost and are amortised through the Income 
Statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding twenty years.
computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is classified as property, plant and equipment. All other computer software and also  
the cost of internally developed software and databases are classified as intangible assets. computer software licences purchased from third parties 
are initially recorded at cost. costs associated with the production of internally developed software are capitalised once it is probable that they will 
generate future economic benefits and satisfy the other criteria set out in IAS 38. computer software intangible assets (including the cost of internally 
developed software and databases) are amortised through the Income Statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives not exceeding 
three years.
m) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. cost includes the original purchase price of the asset plus any 
costs of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is not provided on freehold land. On other assets it is provided at 
the following annual rates, on a straight-line basis, in order to write down each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life.
the assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Freehold property (excluding land) 2% per annum
Long and short leasehold property Over the term of the lease to a maximum of 50 years
Leasehold improvements 10% per annum or over the term of the lease if less than 10 years
Fixtures and fittings 10–20% per annum
computer equipment 25–33% per annum
Motor vehicles 25% per annum
Leasehold improvements are included in long or short leasehold property as appropriate.
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised, as adjusted items if 
significant, within the Income Statement.
n) Investments in subsidiaries
Fixed asset investments, which all relate to investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
o) Financial instruments
Financial assets
the Group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as ‘loans and receivables’ for the purposes of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: recognition and 
Measurement’. Management determines the classification at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date.
Loans and receivables:
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and 
receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. they are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the Income Statement.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 82
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
o) Financial instruments continued
Loans and receivables are classified as current assets if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are otherwise classified as  
non-current assets.
the Group’s ‘loans and receivables’ comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’, for which further information is  
provided below.
Trade and other receivables:
Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. they are subsequently 
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant), less provisions made for doubtful receivables. 
Provisions are made specifically, where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general 
economic conditions.
If collection is expected in 12 months or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the particular business if longer), the trade or other receivable is 
classified as a current asset. It is otherwise classified as a non-current asset.
Cash and cash equivalents:
cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions, and other short-term highly liquid investments 
which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have original maturities of three months or less. cash and cash equivalents are offset 
against bank overdrafts and the net amount is reported in the balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts. 
bank overdrafts are otherwise shown as borrowings within current liabilities on the balance Sheet.
Impairment of financial assets:
the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Where there is objective evidence 
that an impairment loss has arisen on an asset carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced and the impairment loss is recognised in the 
Income Statement. the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of the financial asset does not 
exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised at the date the impairment is reversed. the reversal of an 
impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables:
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount. they are subsequently 
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method (if the time value of money is significant).
If due within 12 months or less, the trade or other payable is classified as a current liability. It is otherwise classified as a non-current liability.
Loans and other borrowings:
Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the amounts received net of transaction costs. they are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the Income Statement.
Further information is provided below in relation to loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are designated as a hedge of a net investment in a 
foreign operation.
Loans and other borrowings are classified as current liabilities if they mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date, but are otherwise classified as 
non-current liabilities.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting
the Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, and it also has loans and 
borrowings in foreign currencies that correspond to investments in foreign operations.
Financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting:
the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes. However, derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting (e.g. certain forward currency contracts held by the Group) are classified as ‘held for trading’ for the purposes of IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: recognition and Measurement’, so are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value. the gain or loss on re-
measurement to fair value is recognised in the Income Statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 83
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
Financial instruments that do qualify for hedge accounting:
t o qualify for hedge accounting, a financial instrument must be designated as a hedging instrument at inception, hedge documentation must 
be prepared and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective. the effectiveness of the hedge is then tested at each reporting date, both 
prospectively and retrospectively, and hedge accounting may be continued only if the hedge remains highly effective. Hedge accounting is discontinued 
when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or if the Group chooses to end the hedge 
relationship.
A financial instrument designated for hedge accounting is initially recognised at fair value. For cash flow hedges (e.g. interest rate swaps), the gains 
or losses on re-measurement to fair value that correspond to the effective part of the hedge are recognised directly in equity; those that correspond 
to the ineffective part, if any, are recognised in the Income Statement. For net investment hedges (loans and borrowings in foreign currencies that are 
designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation), the translation differences that correspond to the effective part of the hedge are 
recognised directly in equity; those that correspond to the ineffective part, if any, are recognised in the Income Statement.
p) Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests
On the acquisition of less than 100% of certain subsidiary undertakings, the Group may enter into put and call options with the holders of the shares 
not owned by the Group, to purchase their interests at a later date.
these written put options are gross-settled (i.e. the entity pays cash in return for the counterparty delivering shares), and hence are recognised as a 
financial liability at the discounted value of the amount payable. the liability recognised may be subject to a cap based on the individual agreements 
with the counterparties.
As the price under the option is calculated using a formula based on the average audited profits for the previous two years at the time of exercise, 
the financial liability is re-measured at the year end based on the latest forecasts of profitability (consistent with those used in the impairment test 
on goodwill and discounted at a rate of 10% (2013: 10%) to reflect the time value of money) and assuming the put options are exercised at the first 
available opportunity. the unwinding of the discount on these provisions is reflected as a finance charge in the Income Statement over the discounting 
period. Any remaining change in value for legacy transactions is reflected in goodwill.
Where the put option is ultimately exercised, the amount recognised as the financial liability at that date will be extinguished by the payment of the 
exercise price. Where the put option expires unexercised, the liability is reversed.
q) Retirement benefits
the Group does not operate a defined benefit pension scheme.
the Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for a number of employees. contributions to these arrangements are charged in the 
Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred. the Group has no further payment obligation once the contributions have been paid.
r) Share-based payments
the Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as 
consideration for equity instruments (share awards) of the Group. the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of share 
awards is recognised as an expense. the total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards granted, 
excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability and remaining as an employee of the 
entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of share awards that are expected to 
vest. the total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified existing conditions are to be 
satisfied. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of share awards that are expected to vest based on the non-market 
vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to 
the share-based payments reserve within equity.
the grant by the company of share awards over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiaries in the Group is treated as a capital 
contribution. the fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as 
an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity Financial Statements.
the social security contributions and payment in lieu of dividend payable in connection with the grant of the share awards is considered an integral 
part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction. the cumulative share-based payment charge held in reserves is 
recycled into retained earnings when the share awards lapse or are exercised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 84
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Statement of Accounting Policies continued
s) Operating leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
rentals incurred in respect of operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease.
t) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, 
net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the company’s equity share capital (‘t reasury Shares’), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
u) New standards and interpretations applied
the following new amendments to standards and interpretations, which do not have a material impact, are mandatory for the first time for the financial 
year beginning 1 July 2013 and are relevant to the preparation of the Group’s financial statements:
•	 Amendment to IFrS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, on asset and liability offsetting. this amendment includes new disclosures to facilitate 
comparison between those entities that prepare IFrS financial statements to those that prepare financial statements in accordance with other 
accounting frameworks. 
•	 Annual improvements 2011. these annual improvements address six issues in the 2009–2011 reporting cycle. they include changes to the 
following standards which are relevant to the Group:
 o IAS 1, ‘Financial statement presentation’ — clarification of the requirements for comparative information
 o IAS 16, ‘Property plant and equipment’ — classification of servicing equipment
 o IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments; Presentation’ — t ax effect of distribution to holders of equity instruments
•	 IFrS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’. IFrS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and 
a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFrSs. the adoption of IFrS 13 within the Group’s accounts 
has not materially impacted the financial statements.
v) New standards and interpretations not applied
the following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective (or not effective in the eU) for the 
financial year beginning 1 July 2013 and have not been early adopted:
•	 IFrS 10, ‘consolidated financial statements’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but has been endorsed by the 
eU only for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within these financial statements. 
•	 IFrS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but has been endorsed by the eU only for 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within these financial statements.  
•	 IFrS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but has been endorsed 
by the eU only for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. It has therefore not been applied within these financial statements. 
•	 Amendment to IFrSs 10, 11 and 12 on transitional guidance. Given these standards have not been endorsed by the eU in respect of this reporting 
period, the Group has not applied these amendments either. 
•	 IFrS 9, ‘Financial instruments — classification and measurement of financial assets’, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018, and has not yet been endorsed for adoption in the eU.
Management will assess the impact on the Group of these standards prior to the effective date of implementation. there are no other IFrSs or IFrIc 
interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 85
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
2. Measures of profit
t o provide shareholders with a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group, Adjusted Profit before t ax has been calculated as profit 
before tax after adding back:
•	 amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits;
•	 impairment of goodwill;
•	 unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and deferred consideration;
•	 share-based payments; and,
•	 other adjusting items (including net gains on the disposal of property).
Adjusted Profit before t ax, Adjusted ebIt A and Adjusted ebItDA reconcile to profit on continuing activities before tax as follows:
Year ended
 30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended
 30 June 
2013 
£’000
Profit before tax 8,592 5,116 
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 13) 6,286 6,105 
Impairment of goodwill — 4,500 
Unwinding of the discounts 39 93
Share-based payments 924 888 
Gain on disposal of property — (3,325) 
Other adjusting items (see note 5) 764 1,325 
Adjusted profit before tax (‘Adjusted Profit before t ax’) 16,605 14,702 
Net finance costs (excluding the unwinding of the discounts above) 2,099 2,163 
Adjusted operating profit (‘Adjusted ebIt A’) 18,704 16,865 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 14) 1,025 1,043 
Amortisation of intangible assets – computer software (see note 13) 816 755 
Adjusted ebIt A before depreciation (‘Adjusted ebItDA’) 20,545 18,663 
3. Segmental information
the Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal financial information provided to the board, which represents the 
chief operating decision maker.
the Group’s organisational structure reflects the different professional markets to which it provides information, compliance and education. the six 
professional divisions (Pensions & Insurance, banking & compliance, Healthcare, Legal, business Intelligence and Accountancy) are the Group’s 
reportable segments and generate substantially all of the Group’s revenue.
there are no changes to any of the Group’s accounting policies.
the board considers the business from both a geographic and product perspective. Geographically, management considers the performance of the 
Group split between the UK, europe (excluding the UK), North America and the rest of the World.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 86
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. Segmental information continued
a) Business segments
Revenue 
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Operating 
profit 
 Year ended 
30 June
 2014 
£’000
revenue 
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Operating 
profit 
 Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Pensions & Insurance 17,006 6,765 14,629 6,093 
banking & compliance 21,938 5,543 16,566 3,513 
Healthcare 13,684 2,818 13,058 2,836 
Legal 17,371 2,268 19,266 2,884 
business Intelligence 9,581 2,500 10,948 2,523 
Accountancy 10,444 2,076 10,581 2,135 
Unallocated central overheads — (3,266) — (3,119) 
90,024 18,704 85,048 16,865
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 13) (6,286) (6,105)
Impairment of goodwill — (4,500) 
Share-based payments (924) (888)
Gain on disposal of property — 3,325 
Other adjusting items (see note 5) (764) (1,325) 
Net finance costs (see note 6) (2,138) (2,256)
Profit before tax 8,592 5,116
t axation (see note 7) (2,034) (1,484)
Profit for the financial year 6,558 3,632 
Unallocated central overheads represent head office costs that are not specifically allocated to segments.
t otal assets and liabilities for each reportable segment are not presented, as such information is not provided to the board.
b) Segmental information by geography
the UK is the Group’s country of domicile and the Group generates the majority of its revenue from external customers in the UK. the geographical 
analysis of revenue is on the basis of the country of origin in which the customer is invoiced:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013
 £’000
UK 57,135 58,159 
europe (excluding the UK) 15,060 13,070
North America 10,467 6,256
rest of the World 7,362 7,563
t otal revenue 90,024 85,048 
4. Net operating expenses
Year ended
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
cost of sales 26,918 26,064
Distribution and selling costs 16,650 15,814
Administrative expenses (excluding amortisation of intangible assets – computer software) 26,936 25,550
Amortisation of intangible assets – computer software 816 755
Net operating expenses before adjusting items 71,320 68,183
Other adjusting items (see note 5) 764 1,325
Net operating expenses 72,084 69,508
Other adjusting items are all classified as administration expenses.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 87
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
5. Profit from continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting):
Year ended
 30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 14) 1,025 1,043 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (see note 14) — 325
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits (see note 13) 6,286 6,105
Amortisation of intangible assets – computer software (see note 13) 816 755 
Impairment of goodwill — 4,500 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 94
rentals under operating leases 972 917
Gain on disposal of property — (3,325) 
Other adjusting items (see below) 764 1,325 
Share-based payments 924 888
Foreign exchange profit (including forward currency contracts) (31) (121)
Fees payable to the Auditors for the audit of the company and consolidated Financial Statements 65 65 
Fees payable to the Auditors and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 200 167
– Audit-related assurance services 17 17
– t ax compliance services 57 71
– t ax advisory services 15 31 
Adjusting items:
the following items have been charged/(credited) to profit or loss during the year but are of an unusual nature, size or incidence and so are shown 
separately:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
costs written off relating to both successful and aborted acquisitions 380 270 
restructuring and rationalisation costs 275 593 
Impairment of freehold property and associated property, plant and equipment — 325 
costs relating to rationalisation of publishing operations — 339 
Increase/(decrease) in liability for deferred consideration 109 (440) 
t ermination costs of joint venture contract — 238 
Other adjusting items (included in operating expenses) 764 1,325
Gain on the sale of property — (3,325)
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,286 6,105
Impairment of goodwill — 4,500
Share-based payments 924 888
Total adjusting items (classified in operating profit) 7,974 9,493
Unwinding of discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and deferred consideration 39 93
Total adjusting items (classified in profit before tax) 8,013 9,586
restructuring and rationalisation costs comprise primarily redundancy and termination costs together with associated reorganisation costs (including 
associated gains and losses on disposal of related fixed assets).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 88
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Net finance costs
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Finance income comprises:
bank interest receivable — 4 
Finance costs comprise:
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (1,718) (1,653) 
Facility fees (213) (267) 
Amortisation of capitalised loan arrangement fees (168) (247)
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (13) (16)
Unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration (26) (77) 
(2,138) (2,260)
7. Taxation
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
current tax:
UK corporation tax at current rates on profits for the year 2,036 2,382 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (64) 30
1,972 2,412
Foreign tax 1,045 854
Adjustment in respect of previous years (47) (4) 
t otal current tax 2,970 3,262 
Deferred tax credit (458) (1,469) 
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of previous years 11 (41) 
effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (489) (268) 
t otal deferred tax (936) (1,778)
t axation 2,034 1,484
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 89
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
7. Taxation continued
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
the tax assessed is higher (2013: higher) than the average rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.50% (2013: 23.75%). the differences are explained 
below:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014
 £’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Profit before tax 8,592 5,116 
Profit multiplied by the average rate of corporation tax in the year of 22.50% (2013: 23.75%) 1,933 1,215 
t ax effects of:
Depreciation and amortisation in excess of capital allowances 523 124 
Impairment not allowable for tax — 1,069 
Foreign tax rate differences 358 179 
Adjustment in respect of previous years (111) 26
Profit on sale of property on which no tax is payable — (790) 
Other items not subject to tax (180) (71) 
effect on deferred tax of change of corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (2013: 24% to 23%) (489) (268) 
t axation 2,034 1,484
On 2 July 2013, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015. this change has been 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, is included in these financial statements. As deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods of the reversal, deferred tax balances at 30 June 2014 have been calculated using a 
rate of 21% or 20%, as appropriate, giving rise to a reduction in the net deferred tax liability of £489,000 (2013: £268,000). the company’s profits for 
this accounting year are taxed at an effective rate of 22.50%.
8. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
pence per 
share
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
pence per 
share
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Final dividends recognised as distributions in the year 3.5 3.5 2,974 2,973 
Interim dividends recognised as distributions in the year 3.6 3.5 3,084 2,974 
t otal dividends paid 6,058 5,947 
Final dividend proposed 3.7 3.5 3,170 2,974 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 90
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share has been calculated using adjusted earnings calculated as profit after taxation and non-controlling interests but before:
•	 Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits;
•	 Impairment of goodwill;
•	 Gain on the disposal of property;
•	 Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests and deferred consideration;
•	 Share-based payments; and
•	 Other adjusting items.
the calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended
 30 June 
2013 
£’000
earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share 6,485 3,537 
Add/(remove):
Amortisation of intangible assets – publishing rights, titles and benefits 6,286 6,105 
Impairment of goodwill — 4,500
Gain on disposal of property — (3,325) 
Other adjusting items 764 1,325 
Share-based payments 924 888
Unwinding of the discount on the provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests deferred consideration 39 93 
t ax effect (1,868) (2,057)
Adjusted earnings for the purposes of adjusted earnings per share 12,630 11,066 
Number Number 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic and adjusted earnings per share 85,408,893 84,727,804 
effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Future exercise of share awards and share options 1,950,638 1,992,729 
Deferred consideration to be settled by equity 372,855 156,550 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per share 87,732,386 86,877,083 
basic earnings per share 7.59p 4.17p 
Diluted earnings per share 7.39p 4.07p
Adjusted basic earnings per share (‘Adjusted earnings Per Share’) 14.79p 13.06p 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 14.40p 12.74p 
10. Results of Wilmington Group plc
Of the results for the year, a profit of £3,007,000 (2013: £25,227,000) relates to Wilmington Group plc, the parent company. Pursuant to Section 408 
of the companies Act 2006 the company’s own income statement and statement of other comprehensive income are not presented separately in the 
company financial statements, but they have been approved by the board.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 91
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
11. Acquisitions and disposals
Business combinations
the Group acquired the trading assets and certain liabilities of compliance Week, the leading provider of governance, risk and compliance (‘Grc’) 
information and events for public companies and large enterprises, primarily in the US, on 15 August 2013 from Haymarket Media, Inc. compliance 
Week was acquired for consideration of $11.22m (£7.3m) in cash. Subsequently, $0.2m (£0.1m) was repaid to the Group in respect of the final working 
capital adjustment. Further contingent consideration of up to $3.0m (£1.8m) is potentially payable in cash, subject to compliance Week achieving 
challenging growth targets in the financial year ending 30 June 2015.
Acquisition related costs of £0.3m have been recognised as part of the costs written off relating to both successful and abortive acquisitions of £0.4m 
shown as other adjusted items in the income statement (see note 5).
the acquisition of compliance Week is consistent with Wilmington’s strategy of acquiring businesses with high repeat revenues and strong, cash 
generative income streams in the Group’s key markets. this business forms part of the banking & compliance Division and works closely with other 
Group companies, providing them with closer access to their North American customers and markets, as well as opportunities for developing new 
revenue streams.
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill for the acquisition are as follows:
£’000
Purchase consideration:
Initial cash paid 7,411
cash received in respect of final working capital adjustment (129)
Net purchase consideration 7,282
the provisional fair values of assets and liabilities recognised as a result of this acquisition are as follows:
Provisional fair 
value 
£’000
customer relationships 1,446
Data 698
brand 1,322
Other intangible assets 499
t otal intangible assets (see note 13) 3,965
t rade and other receivables (net of allowances) 558
Subscriptions and deferred revenue (1,206)
Net identifiable assets acquired 3,317
Goodwill (see note 12) 3,965
Net assets acquired 7,282
the goodwill is attributable to compliance Week’s strong position and profitability in trading in the international compliance and regulatory information 
market, the new product development potential and synergies to arise after the Group’s acquisition of the new business.
the acquired business contributed revenues of £3,203,000 and contribution of £878,000 (£792,000 after adjusting items) to the Group for the period 
from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2014. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 July 2013, consolidated revenue and consolidated operating profit 
before adjusting items for the twelve months ended 30 June 2014 would have been £90,244,000 and £18,688,000 respectively.
Non-controlling interests
During the year, the Group acquired an additional 20.0% of the issued share capital of Mercia NI Limited and Mercia Ireland Limited for £58,000 thus 
increasing the ownership in these businesses to 80.0%.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 92
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Goodwill
Cost £’000
At 1 July 2012 77,343
Acquisitions 3,291
change in provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (99)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (3)
At 1 July 2013 80,532
Additions 60
Acquisitions (see note 11) 3,965
exchange translation differences (443)
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests (9)
At 30 June 2014 84,105
Accumulated impairment
At 1 July 2012 2,750
Impairment charge 4,500
At 1 July 2013 and 30 June 2014 7,250
Net book amount
At 30 June 2014 76,855
At 30 June 2013 73,282
At 1 July 2012 74,593
the Group tests goodwill annually for impairment. the recoverable amount of the goodwill is determined from value in use calculations for each cash 
generating unit (‘cGU’). these calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by the board covering 
a three year period. cash flows beyond the three year period are extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates.
Key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, cash flow forecasts and long-term growth rates. Management 
has used a pre-tax discount rate of 12.3% (2013: 12.3%) across all cGUs except for the Healthcare, Legal and business Intelligence cGU which had 
a pre-tax discount rate of 13.3% (2013: 13.3%) to reflect the greater market challenges and risks. these pre-tax discount rates reflect current market 
assessments for the time value of money and the risks associated with the cGUs as the Group manages its treasury function on a Group-wide basis. 
the same discount rate has been used for all cGUs except Healthcare, Legal and business Intelligence, as the Directors believe that the risks are the 
same for each cGU. the long-term growth rates used are based on management’s expectations of future changes in the markets for each cGU and 
are 2.0% (2013: 2.0%).
Management’s impairment calculations based upon the above assumptions show significant headroom. there are no cGUs which management 
consider a reasonable possible change in a key assumption that would give rise to any impairment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 93
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
13. Intangible assets
Group Company
Publishing 
rights, titles 
and benefits 
£’000
computer 
software 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
computer 
software 
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2012 59,395 4,165 63,560 559
Additions 262 764 1,026 28
Acquisitions 5,784 — 5,784 —
exchange translation differences 21 — 21 —
At 1 July 2013 65,462 4,929 70,391 587
Additions 22 933 955 —
Acquisitions 3,965 — 3,965 —
Disposals (3,002) — (3,002) (587)
exchange translation differences (565) — (565) —
At 30 June 2014 65,882 5,862 71,744 —
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2012 29,153 2,885 32,038 470
charge for year 6,105 755 6,860 55
At 1 July 2013 35,258 3,640 38,898 525
charge for year 6,286 816 7,102 23
Disposals (3,002) — (3,002) (548)
At 30 June 2014 38,542 4,456 42,998 —
Net book amount
At 30 June 2014 27,340 1,406 28,746 —
At 30 June 2013 30,204 1,289 31,493 62
At 1 July 2012 30,242 1,280 31,522 89
the prior year includes an accelerated amortisation charge of £748,000 to reflect a reduction in the useful life of the Group’s legacy print businesses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 94
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Freehold 
property 
£’000 
Long 
leasehold 
property 
£’000
Short 
leasehold 
property
 £’000
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£’000
computer 
equipment 
£’000
Motor vehicles 
£’000
t otal
 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2012 3,051 3,999 148 3,140 5,320 469 16,127
Additions — — 22 550 528 117 1,217
Acquisitions — — — 23 12 — 35
Sale of subsidiary undertakings — — — (70) — — (70)
Disposals — — (31) (843) (2,000) (112) (2,986)
t ransfer to assets held for sale (1,049) (44) — (45) (34) — (1,172)
exchange translation differences — — 10 10 27 — 47
At 1 July 2013 2,002 3,955 149 2,765 3,853 474 13,198
Additions — — 74 172 588 49 883
Disposals — — (61) (107) (635) (41) (844)
exchange translation differences — — (8) (13) (35) — (56)
At 30 June 2014 2,002 3,955 154 2,817 3,771 482 13,181
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2012 338 1,900 101 2,264 4,591 161 9,355
charge for the year 65 161 2 341 369 105 1,043
Impairment 258 37 — 24 6 — 325
Sale of subsidiary undertakings — — — (68) — — (68)
Disposals — — (29) (789) (2,000) (76) (2,894)
t ransfer to assets held for sale (391) (44) — (45) (34) — (514)
exchange translation differences — — 9 4 29 — 42
At 1 July 2013 270 2,054 83 1,731 2,961 190 7,289
charge for the year 31 150 21 306 415 102 1,025
Disposals — — (54) (82) (635) (39) (810)
exchange translation differences — — (5) (11) (34) — (50)
At 30 June 2014 301 2,204 45 1,944 2,707 253 7,454
Net book amount
At 30 June 2014 1,701 1,751 109 873 1,064 229 5,727
At 30 June 2013 1,732 1,901 66 1,034 892 284 5,909
At 1 July 2012 2,713 2,099 47 876 729 308 6,772
Included in freehold property is £970,000 (2013: £970,000) of non-depreciated land.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to net operating expenses within the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 95
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
14. Property, plant and equipment continued
Company
Long 
leasehold 
property 
£’000
Short 
leasehold 
property 
£’000
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£’000
computer 
equipment 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Cost
At 1 July 2012 2,789 31 42 149 3,011
Disposals — (31) (8) — (39)
At 1 July 2013 2,789 — 34 149 2,972
Disposals — — (34) (149) (183)
At 30 June 2014 2,789 — — — 2,789
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2012 1,560 31 38 140 1,769
charge for the year 142 — 1 4 147
Disposals — (31) (5) — (36)
At 1 July 2013 1,702 — 34 144 1,880
charge for the year 136 — — 2 138
Disposals — — (34) (146) (180)
At 30 June 2014 1,838 — — — 1,838
Net book amount
At 30 June 2014 951 — — — 951
At 30 June 2013 1,087 — — 5 1,092
At 1 July 2012 1,229 — 4 9 1,242
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 96
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£’000
cost less provision at 1 July 2012 41,909
t ransfer of investment in subsidiaries to one of its subsidiaries 6,199
Share-based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries 483
cost less provision at 1 July 2013 48,591
Additions 60
Share-based payments made on behalf of subsidiaries 542
Cost less provision at 30 June 2014 49,193
the table below gives brief details of the Group’s principal operating subsidiaries at 30 June 2014. All have ordinary share capital and a year end of  
30 June. except where indicated, all of the principal subsidiaries were incorporated in and principally operated in Great britain. Subsidiaries marked (*) 
are indirectly owned.
the Group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. the list therefore includes only those entities that 
have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the company’s next annual return 
filed with the registrar of companies.
Name of company business
Percentage 
owned
Adkins, Matchett & t oy (Hong Kong) Limited* 
(incorporated and operates in Hong Kong) Provision of professional training 100
Adkins & Matchett (UK) Limited* Provision of professional training 100
Adkins, Matchett & t oy Limited* (incorporated and 
operates in the USA) Provision of professional training 100
APM International SAS* (incorporated and operates in 
France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
APM Media SArL* (incorporated and operates
in France) News information services to the healthcare industry 100
Ark conferences Limited* Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Ark Group Inc* (incorporated and operates in the USA) Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Ark Group Limited* Holding company 100
Ark Singapore Pty Limited* (incorporated and operates 
in Singapore) Provision of information and events for professional practice management 100
Axco Insurance Information Services Limited* Provision of international compliance and regulatory information for the 
global insurance industry
 100
bond Solon t raining Limited* Witness training and conferences 100
cLt International Limited* certified professional training 100
central Law t raining Limited* Professional education, post qualification training and legal conferences 100
central Law t raining (Scotland) Limited* Professional education, post qualification training and legal conferences 80
International company Profile FZ LLc* (Middle east) 
(incorporated and operates in Dubai) Provision of financial information 100
International compliance t raining Limited* t raining courses in international compliance and money laundering 100
International compliance t raining (Singapore) Limited* 
(incorporated and operates in Singapore) t raining courses in international compliance and money laundering 100
International compliance t raining (Middle east) LLc* 
(incorporated and operates in UAe) t raining courses in international compliance and money laundering 100
La t ouche bond Solon t raining Limited* (incorporated 
and operates in Ireland) Witness and post qualification legal training 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 97
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
15. Investments in subsidiaries continued
Name of company business
Percentage 
owned
Mercia Group Limited* t raining and support services to the accountancy profession 100
Mercia Ireland Limited* (incorporated and operates in 
Ireland) t raining and support services to the accountancy profession 80
Mercia NI Limited* (incorporated and operates in  
Northern Ireland) t raining and support services to the accountancy profession 80
NHiS Limited Provision of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools and other 
services to the healthcare industry 100
Practice t rack Limited* Marketing support services for the accountancy profession 100
Smee and Ford Limited* Provision of legacy information 100
the Matchett Group Limited* Holding company 100
Wilmington business Information Limited* Holding company 100
Wilmington compliance Week Inc.* (incorporated and 
operates in the USA) Provision of international compliance and regulatory information in the USA 100
Wilmington Healthcare Limited* Provision of reference information to the healthcare industry 100
Wilmington Holdings US Inc.* (incorporated and operates 
in the USA)* Holding company 100
Wilmington Holdings No 1 Limited Holding company 100
Wilmington Inese SL (incorporated and operates in Spain)* Provision of Spanish language subscription based publications 100
Wilmington Millennium Limited* Provision of legacy information 82.5
Wilmington Publishing & Information Limited* Provision of information and events for professional markets 100
Wilmington Shared Services Limited* Provision of shared services 100
Wilmington t raining & events Limited* Holding company 100
Wilmington t raining & events Limited owns 80% of central Law t raining (Scotland) Limited. Mercia Group Limited owns 80% of Mercia NI Limited and 
Mercia Ireland Limited. Wilmington Publishing & Information Limited owns 82.5% of Wilmington Millennium Limited.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 98
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
 30 June 
2014
£’000
 30 June 
2013
£’000
Current
t rade receivables 17,917 17, 211 — —
Other receivables 2,230 2,022 — 4
Prepayments and accrued income 2,242 2,146 87 84 
22,389 21,379 87 88 
Non-current
Amounts due from subsidiaries — — 61,658 70,169 
22,389 21,379 61,745 70,257 
Amounts due from all other subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and are not due for repayment within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
17. Derivative financial assets and liabilities
Group and Company
Current assets
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Forward currency contracts 37 —
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps – maturing in November 2014 (78) (63)
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps – maturing in November 2016 (490) (1,096) 
Details of these derivative financial assets and liabilities are set out in note 20.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 99
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
18. Trade and other payables
Group Company
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
30 June 
2014
£’000
30 June 
2013
 £’000
t rade payables 3,429 3,995 — —
Other payables 2,233 2,623 59 218 
Social security and other taxes 3,746 3,591 — —
Subscriptions and deferred revenue 19,591 18,563 — —
Accruals 11,636 10,482 1,823 1,380 
Amounts due to subsidiaries — — 2,000 1,601 
40,635 39,254 3,882 3,199
Amounts due to subsidiaries are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
19. Borrowings
Group Company
Current liability
30 June 
2014
 £’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
bank overdrafts 642 890 6,835 8,530 
Non-current liability
bank loans 38,041 40,286 15,000 20,286 
capitalised loan arrangement fees (368) (535) (368) (535)
bank loans net of loan arrangement fees 37,673 39,751 14,632 19,751
Details of the Group’s bank facilities are set out in note 20.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 100
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Financial instruments and risk management
the Group’s financial instruments arise from its operations (for example, trade receivables and trade payables) from the financing of its operations (for 
example, loans and borrowings and equity) and from its risk management activities (for example, interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts). 
the risks to which the Group is exposed include interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity and capital risk, and credit risk.
Interest rate risk
Risk
the Group financing arrangements include external debt that is subject to a variable interest rate. the Group is consequently exposed to cash flow 
volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest rates applicable to that external finance. In particular, interest is charged on the £38m (2013: £40m) 
amount drawn down on the revolving credit facility (see below) at a rate of between 2.00 and 2.75 per cent above LIbOr depending upon leverage. 
cash flow volatility therefore arises from movements in the LIbOr interest rates and leverage.
Group policy
the Group policy is to enter into interest rate swap contracts to maintain the ratio of fixed to variable rate debt at a level that achieves a reasonable 
cost of debt whilst reducing the exposure to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in market interest rates.
Risk management arrangements
the Group’s interest rate swap contracts offset part of its variable interest payments and replace them with fixed payments. In particular, the Group has 
hedged its exposure to the LIbOr part of the interest rate for a £25m (2013: £25m) portion of the loan facility via two interest rate swaps, as follows:
•	 A 5 year £15m interest rate swap commencing on 21 November 2011, whereby the Group receives interest on £15m based on the LIbOr rate and 
pays interest on £15m at a fixed rate of 2.68%; and
•	 A 3 year £10m interest rate swap commencing on 21 November 2011, whereby the Group receives interest on £10m based on the LIbOr rate and 
pays interest on £10m at a fixed rate of 2.12%.
these derivatives have been designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. the net settlement of interest on the interest rate swap, which 
comprises a variable rate interest receipt and a fixed rate interest payment, is recorded in net finance costs in the income statement and so is matched 
against the corresponding variable rate interest payment on the revolving credit facility. the derivatives are re-measured at fair value at each reporting 
date. this gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is recognised in other comprehensive income following the Directors’ assessment of 
the hedge’s effectiveness.
Sensitivity analysis
the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated charge to the Income Statement and Other comprehensive Income (‘OcI’) 
arising from a 1.0% increase in market interest rates applicable at 30 June 2014, with all other variables remaining constant. the sensitivity analysis 
makes the following assumptions:
a. changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments;
b.  changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if they are 
recognised at fair value; and
c.  changes in market interest rates do not affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all interest 
rate hedges are expected to be highly effective.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 101
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Income 
Statement 
100 bps 
Increase 
£’000
OcI 
100 bps 
Increase 
£’000
Variable rate debt (165) —
Interest rate swap — 219
(165) 219
Foreign currency risk
Risk
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates is Sterling, and this is also the currency in which the Group presents 
its financial statements. However, the Group has significant euro and US dollar cash flows arising from international trading and overseas operations. 
the Group is consequently exposed to cash flow volatility arising from fluctuations in the applicable exchange rates for converting euros and US dollars 
to Sterling.
Group policy
the Group policy is to fix the exchange rate in relation to a periodically reassessed set percentage of expected euro and US dollar net cash inflows 
arising from international trading, by entering into foreign currency contracts to sell a specified amount of euros or US dollars on a specified future 
date at a specified exchange rate. this set percentage is approved by the board as part of the budgeting process and upon the acquisition of foreign 
operations.
the Group policy is to finance investment in overseas operations from borrowings in the local currency of the relevant operation, so as to achieve a 
natural hedge of the foreign currency translation risk. this natural hedge is designated as a net investment hedge for accounting purposes.
Risk management arrangements
the following forward contracts were entered into in order to provide certainty in Sterling terms of 80% of the Group’s expected net US dollar and euro 
income:
•	 On 22 April 2013, the Group sold $1.0m to 10 December 2013 at a rate of 1.5248
•	 On 20 June 2013, the Group sold $2.0m to 31 October 2013 at a rate of 1.545
•	 On 20 June 2013, the Group sold $1.0m to 28 February 2014 at a rate of 1.5419
•	 On 20 June 2013, the Group sold $2.5m to 31 March 2014 at a rate of 1.5417
•	 On 12 June 2014, the Group sold $3.0m to 31 March 2015 at a rate of 1.6785
•	 On 12 June 2014, the Group sold $3.0m to 28 November 2014 at a rate of 1.6824
•	 On 16 June 2014, the Group sold $3.5m to 29 May 2015 at a rate of 1.6911
•	 On 28 June 2013, the Group sold €0.5m to 30 September 2013 at a rate of 1.1673
•	 On 28 June 2013, the Group sold €1.5m to 30 September 2013 at a rate of 1.1673
•	 On 28 June 2013, the Group sold €1.0m to 29 November 2013 at a rate of 1.1664
•	 On 28 June 2013 the Group sold €0.5m to 28 February 2014 at a rate of 1.1655
•	 On 28 March 2014, the Group sold €1.0m to 02 April 2014 at a rate of 1.2083
the above derivatives are re-measured at fair value at each reporting date. this gives rise to a gain or loss, the entire amount of which is recognised in 
the Income Statement.
the Group purchased, on 15 August 2013, the business and assets of compliance Week, an operation in North America. the Group financed this 
acquisition via a $12.0m drawdown on the Group’s multi-currency revolving loan facility (see below). this debt has been designated as a currency 
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation for accounting purposes. It is translated into Sterling at each reporting date, which gives rise to a gain 
or loss, the entire amount of which is recognised in Other comprehensive Income following the Directors’ assessment of the hedge’s effectiveness. At 
30 June 2014 the drawdown is $5.2m following repayments of $6.8m being made during the year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 102
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Foreign currency risk continued
the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis that measures the estimated credit/(charge) to the Income Statement and Other comprehensive 
Income (‘OcI’) arising from a 10% difference in the US Dollar to Sterling and euro to Sterling exchange rates applicable at 30 June 2014, with all other 
variables remaining constant. the sensitivity analysis makes the assumption that changes in foreign currency rates only affect income, expense, assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in the relevant currencies.
Income statement OcI
+10%*
£’000 
-10%*
£’000 
+10%* 
£’000 
-10%* 
£’000
cash and cash equivalents (95) 116 — —
t rade receivables (including the effect of forward currency contracts) (33) 40 — —
currency translation differences — — (889) 1,067
Net investment hedges — — 276 (338)
Profit before tax arising overseas (388) 474 — —
(516) 630 (613) 729
* +10% represents Sterling value appreciating compared with other currencies. -10% represents Sterling value depreciating compared with other currencies.
Liquidity and capital risk
Risk
the Group has historically expanded its operations both organically and via acquisition, financed partly by retained profits but also via external finance. 
As well as financing cash outflows, the Group’s activities give rise to working capital obligations and other operational cash outflows. the Group is 
consequently exposed to the risk that it cannot meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only meet them at an uneconomic price.
Group policy
the Group policy is to preserve a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to safeguard the future 
development of the business, but also to balance these objectives with the efficient use of capital. the Group has, in previous years, made purchases 
of its own shares (see note 22) whilst taking into account the availability of credit.
Risk management arrangements
the Group ensures its liquidity is maintained by entering into short, medium and long-term financial instruments to support operational and other 
funding requirements. the Group determines its liquidity requirements by the use of short and long-term cash forecasts.
the Group has an unsecured committed bank facility of £65.0m (2013: £65.0m) to February 2016. the facility currently comprises a revolving credit 
facility of £60.0m (2013: £60.0m) and an overdraft facility across the Group of £5.0m (2013: £5.0m). At 30 June 2014, £38.0m of the revolving credit 
facility was drawn down (2013: £40.3m). Interest is charged on the amount drawn down at between 2.00 and 2.75 per cent above LIbOr depending 
upon leverage, and drawdowns are made for periods of up to six months in duration. Interest is charged on the drawn element of the overdraft facility 
at 2.25% above the barclays bank base rate. the Group also pays a fee of 0.9% on the undrawn element of the credit facility and 0.09% on the 
undrawn overdraft. the Group has complied at all times with the covenant requirements of the bank facility arrangement.
the Group had available an undrawn revolving credit facility as follows:
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
expiring after more than one year 21,959 19,714 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 103
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Liquidity and capital risk continued
the following tables provide a maturity analysis of the remaining contractually agreed cash flows for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities on an 
undiscounted basis, which therefore differ from the carrying value and fair value:
Group
At 30 June 2014
Within 1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than  
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
bank overdrafts 642 — — — 642
bank loans including interest 1,321 39,162 — — 40,483
t rade payables and accruals 17,298 — — — 17,298
Deferred consideration — cash settled 343 — — — 343
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests — 100 — — 100
19,604 39,262 — — 58,866
At 30 June 2013
Within 1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than
 5 Years 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
bank overdrafts 890 — — — 890
bank loans including interest 1,108 1,108 41,025 — 43,241
t rade payables and accruals 17,100 — — — 17,100
Deferred consideration — cash settled 224 261 — — 485
Provisions for future purchase of non-controlling interests — 183 — — 183
19,322 1,552 41,025 — 61,899
Company
At 30 June 2014
Within 1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
bank overdrafts 6,835 — — — 6,835
bank loans including interest 746 15,587 — — 16,333
t rade payables, accruals and amounts due to subsidiary 
undertakings 3,882 — — — 3,882
Deferred consideration — cash settled 56 — — — 56
11,519 15,587 — — 27,106
At 30 June 2013
Within 1 Year 
£’000
1–2 Years 
£’000
2–5 Years 
£’000
More than 
5 Years 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
bank overdrafts 8,530 — — — 8,530
bank loans including interest 558 558 20,658 — 21,774
t rade payables, accruals and amounts due to subsidiary 
undertakings 3,199 — — — 3,199
Deferred consideration — cash settled 81 — — — 81
12,368 558 20,658 — 33,584
the company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s credit facility providers.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 104
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Credit Risk
Risk
the Group’s principal financial assets are receivables and bank balances. the Group is consequently exposed to the risk that its customers or the 
credit facility providers cannot meet their obligations as they fall due.
Group policy
the Group policy is that the lines of business assess the creditworthiness and financial strength of customers at inception and on an ongoing basis. 
the Group also reviews the credit rating of the bank.
Risk management arrangements
the Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk because its trading 
is spread over a large number of customers. the payment terms offered to customers take into account the assessment of their creditworthiness and 
financial strength, and they are set in accordance with industry standards. the creditworthiness of customers is considered before trading commences. 
Most of the Group’s customers are large and well established institutions that pay on time and in accordance with the Group’s standard terms of 
business. 
the amounts presented in the balance Sheet are net of allowances for bad and doubtful receivables estimated by management based on prior 
experience and their assessment of the current economic value.
Set out below is an analysis of the Group’s trade receivables by due date prior to any impairment.
Not due 
£’000
 0–30 days 
£’000
30–60 days 
£’000 
Over 60 days 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Allowances 
£’000
Net 
£’000
At 30 June 2014 10,674 3,105 1,396 3,371 18,546 (629) 17,917
At 30 June 2013 9,644 3,655 1,883 2,972 18,154 (943) 17,211
receivables within the 0–30 days category or above are past due, but the Group considers them to be collectable and not impaired except where 
specifically provided for.
Set out below is the movement for the year in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts relating to trade receivables.
30 June 
2014 
£’000 
30 June 
2013 
£’000 
Allowances at 1 July 2013 943 1,283
Additions charged to Income Statement 62 182
Allowances made in respect of acquisitions — (198) 
Allowances used (74) (107)
Allowances reversed (302) (217)
Allowances at 30 June 2014 629 943 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 105
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
the table below sets out the accounting classification and the carrying and fair values of all of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities. the 
carrying value and fair value are equal in all cases. None of the financial instruments have been reclassified during the year. All items are classified as fair 
value through profit and loss and are held for trading.
Group
At 30 June 2014
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
cash and cash equivalents — 5,020 — — — 5,020
t rade and other receivables — 20,084 — — — 20,084
Forward currency contracts 37 — — — — 37
37 25,104 — — — 25,141
Financial liabilities
t rade and other payables — — — (17,298) — (17,298)
bank overdrafts — — — (642) — (642)
borrowings due after more than one year — — (1,321) (39,162) — (40,483)
Interest rate swaps — — (568) — — (568)
Put options for non-controlling interests — — — — (100) (100)
— — (1,889) (57,102) (100) (59,091)
At 30 June 2013
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss 
£’000
 Loans and 
receivables 
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated for 
hedging 
£’000
Amortised 
cost
 £’000
Other
 £’000
t otal
£’000
Financial assets
cash and cash equivalents — 7,803 — — — 7,803
t rade and other receivables — 19,179 — — — 19,179
— 26,982 — — — 26,982
Financial liabilities
t rade and other payables — — — (17,100) — (17,100)
bank overdrafts — — — (890) — (890)
borrowings due after more than one year — — (1,167) (38,584) — (39,751)
Interest rate swaps — — (1,096) — — (1,096)
Forward currency contracts (63) — — — — (63)
Put options for non-controlling interests — — — — (183) (183)
(63) — (2,263) (56,574) (183) (59,083)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 106
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Company
At 30 June 2014
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss
£’000
Loans and 
receivables
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated 
for hedging
£’000
Amortised 
cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Financial assets
cash and cash equivalents — 19 — — 19
t rade and other receivables — 61,658 — — 61,658
Forward currency contracts 37 — — — 37
37 61,677 — — 61,714
Financial liabilities
t rade and other payables — — — (3,882) (3,882)
bank overdrafts — — — (6,835) (6,835)
borrowings due after more than one year — — — (14,632) (14,632)
Interest rate swaps — — (568) — (568)
— — (568) (25,349) (25,917)
At 30 June 2013
Fair value 
through profit 
and loss
£’000
Loans and 
receivables
£’000
Financial 
instruments 
designated for 
hedging
£’000
Amortised 
cost
£’000
t otal
£’000
Financial assets
cash and cash equivalents — 47 — — 47
t rade and other receivables — 70,169 — — 70,169
— 70,216 — — 70,216
Financial liabilities
t rade and other payables — — — (3,199) (3,199)
bank overdrafts — — — (8,530) (8,530)
borrowings due after more than one year — — — (19,751) (19,751)
Interest rate swaps — — (1,096) — (1,096)
Forward currency contracts (63) — — — (63)
(63) — (1,096) (31,480) (32,639)
the ‘Put options for non-controlling interests’ refer to options between the non-controlling interest holders of subsidiaries and the Group. the options 
require the Group to purchase a non-controlling shareholding in accordance with its contractual obligation.
the liability represents the costs to the Group of buying out these non-controlling interests should the put options be exercised by the non-controlling 
shareholders. the valuation upon exercise is dependent on the performance of the subsidiary undertakings at the date the options are exercised.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
107
20. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Fair value measurement
the methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
•	 the carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximates to fair value due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable;
•	 the fair value of the Group’s borrowings are estimated on the basis of the discounted value of future cash flows using approximate discount rates in 
effect at the balance sheet date; and
•	 the fair value of the Group’s outstanding interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and put options for non-controlling interest are estimated 
using discounted cash flow models and market rates of interest and foreign exchange at the balance sheet date.
the table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value via a valuation method. the different levels have been defined as:
Level 1
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, 
derived from prices); and
Level 3
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
Group and Company
At 30 June 2014
Level 1 
£’000 
Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or expense
– t rading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement — (37) — (37)
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging — 568 — 568
Total liabilities — 531 — 531
At 30 June 2013
Level 1 
£’000
 Level 2 
£’000 
Level 3 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through income or expense
– t rading derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement — 63 — 63
Financial liabilities at fair value through equity
– Derivative financial instruments designated for hedging — 1,096 — 1,096
Total liabilities — 1,159 — 1,159
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 108
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Deferred tax
Movements on deferred tax assets are as follows:
Group
£’000
 company
 £’000
Non-current assets
Asset at 1 July 2012 639 382
Deferred tax credit in the Income Statement for the year 56 122
Prior year deferred tax adjustment (24) (16)
Deferred tax credit included directly in equity for the year 216 19
Asset at 1 July 2013 887 507
Deferred tax charge in the Income Statement for the year (150) (201)
effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (28) (53)
Deferred tax charge included directly in equity for the year (147) (147)
Asset at 30 June 2014 562 106
the Group deferred tax asset arises as a result of tax on share based payments of £443,000 (2013: £620,000) and fair value interest rate swap losses 
of £119,000 (2013: £267,000).
the company deferred tax asset arises as a result of tax on share-based payment charges and fair value interest rate swap losses incurred directly in 
the company’s income statement. It is anticipated that the company will make sufficient taxable profit to allow the benefit of the deferred tax asset to 
be utilised.
Movements on deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
Group 
£’000
 company 
£’000
Non-current liabilities
Liability at 1 July 2012 6,518 —
Deferred tax credit in the Income Statement for the year (1,413) —
Deferred tax liabilities arising on acquisition of businesses 1,047 —
Prior year deferred tax adjustment (41) —
effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (292) —
exchange translation differences 3 —
Liability at 1 July 2013 5,822 —
Deferred tax credit in the Income Statement for the year (608) —
Deferred tax liabilities arising on acquisition of businesses — —
Prior year deferred tax adjustment (11) —
effect on deferred tax of change in corporation tax rate (517) —
exchange translation differences (16) —
Liability at 30 June 2014 4,670 —
the deferred tax liability arises as a result of accelerated tax depreciation and amortisation.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 109
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
22. Share capital
Number 
of ordinary 
shares of 5p 
each
Ordinary 
shares
 £’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
 t reasury 
shares 
£’000
t otal 
£’000
Authorised
At 1 July 2013 110,000,000 5,500
At 30 June 2014 110,000,000 5,500
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares
At 1 July 2012 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 (4,008) 45,528
t reasury shares reissued during the year — — — 1,652 1,652
At 1 July 2013 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 (2,356) 47,180
t reasury shares reissued during the year — — — 1,478 1,478
At 30 June 2014 86,103,137 4,305 45,231 (878) 48,658
During the year, no ordinary shares were issued in respect of share options and awards exercised by employees (including Directors) (2013: nil).
the company reissued 668,910 treasury shares during the year (2013: nil) in respect of the 2011 PSP scheme that fully vested in October 2013. In 
addition, the company also reissued 47,500 treasury shares (2013: nil) in respect of share options exercised by employees. No other treasury shares 
were reissued by the company during the year (2013: 800,000). At 30 June 2014, 425,590 shares were held in t reasury (2013: 1,142,000), which 
represents 0.5% (2013: 1.3%) of the called up share capital of the company.
23. Share-based payments
Details of Directors’ share options and awards are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. employees of the Group (including Directors) hold 
options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:
a) Under the Wilmington Group plc 1999 Approved Share Option Scheme
Year of grant
Subscription 
price per 
share
Period 
within 
which 
options 
exercisable
Number of 
shares for 
which options 
outstanding at 
1 July 2013
Options 
exercised 
during year
Options 
lapsed 
during year 
Number 
of shares 
outstanding 
at 30 June 
2014
2004 118.5p 
Mar 2007–
Mar 2014 47,500 (47,500) — —
All of the shares for which options were outstanding on 1 July 2013 were exercised during the year.
b) Under the Wilmington Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan
Year of grant
Awards price 
per Share
Date of 
vesting 
Number of 
shares for 
which awards 
outstanding 
1 July 2013
Awards 
granted 
during year 
Awards vested 
during year
 Awards 
lapsed 
during year
 Number of 
shares for 
which awards 
outstanding 
at 30 June 
2014
2010 Nil Sept 2013 1,326,159 — (668,910) (657,249) —
2011 Nil Oct 2014 911,959 — — — 911,959
2012 Nil Oct 2015 444,198 — — — 444,198
2013 Nil Sept 2016 — 262,142 — — 262,142
Details of the Performance Share Plan are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 to 63.
these awards were valued using the Monte carlo method with the following assumptions:
expected volatility (%)   26 to 36
expected life (years)               3
expected dividends (%)            Nil
expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the Group’s share price. the expected life used in the model is the  
mid-point of the exercise period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 110
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling 
interests – share 
of assets and 
funds 
£’000
Non-controlling 
interests – 
provisions 
for future 
acquisition 
£’000
Net Non- 
controlling 
interests 
£’000
At 1 July 2012 1,107 (1,107) —
Profit for the year 95 — 95
Dividends paid (27) — (27)
New contribution from non-controlling interest 80 — 80
Acquisition of non-controlling interests during the year (982) 982 —
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests — (3) (3)
At 1 July 2013 273 (128) 145
Profit for the year 73 — 73
Dividends paid (26) — (26)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests during the year (58) 58 —
Movement in offset of provisions for the future purchase of non-controlling interests 52 (9) 43
At 30 June 2014 314 (79) 235
25. Contingencies and commitments
Contingencies
the company has entered into an unlimited cross guarantee with the Group’s bankers in respect of the net £5 million overdraft facilities extended  
to certain of the company’s subsidiaries. At 30 June 2014, the company’s gross contingent liability in respect of this facility was £769,000  
(2013: £1,981,000).
Commitments
a) the Group had, in relation to property, plant and equipment, capital commitments contracted but not provided for at 30 June 2014 of £nil  
(2013: £nil).
b) t otal future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Group Company
Property Property
30 June 
2014 
£’000 
30 June 
2013 
£’000 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
30 June 
2013 
£’000
One year 885 910 111 111 
between two and five years 1,341 1,698 445 445
After five years 3,919 3,949 3,838 3,949
6,145 6,557 4,394 4,505 
26. Related party transactions
the company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings offer certain Group-wide purchasing facilities to the company’s other subsidiary 
undertakings whereby the actual costs are recharged.
the company has made recharges totalling £1,427,000 (2013: £1,024,000) to its fellow Group undertakings in respect of management services. In 
addition, it has recharged at cost certain administrative expenses totalling £159,525 (2013: £422,750) to its fellow Group undertakings.
Amounts due from and to subsidiary undertakings by the company are set out in notes 16 and 18 respectively.
During the year, the company received dividends of £6,600,000 from subsidiaries (2013: £30,100,000).
On 7 February 2013, and prior to acquisition, the freehold land and buildings of a subsidiary, NHiS Limited, were sold to AMcO 2013 LLP , a 
partnership in which Jon thorne who was a Director of NHIS Limited is a partner, and Nick Merryfield LLP , a partnership in which Nick Merryfield who is 
a Director of NHIS Limited is a partner. Following the sale of the freehold land and buildings, the subsidiary paid rent of £32,619 (2013: £14,166) during 
the period to AMcO 2013 LLP & Nick Merryfield LLP trading as regent Property. this rental agreement was contracted at arm’s length.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 111
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
27. Staff and their pay and benefits
a) employee costs (including Directors) were as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Wages and salaries 33,655 30,877 
Social security costs 4,206 3,876 
Other pension costs 777 613 
Share-based payments (including social security costs) 924 888 
39,562 36,254
b) remuneration of key management personnel that held office for part or all of the year (2014: 10 people; 2013: 10 people), which includes the 
Directors and other key management personnel, is shown in the table below:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,374 2,181
Post employment benefits 8 75 
Share-based payments 476 427 
2,858 2,683 
More detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings, pension entitlement, share options and other long-term incentive plans is 
shown in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 to 63, which forms part of the consolidated Financial Statements.
c) the average monthly number of employees (including Directors) employed by the Group was as follows:
Year ended 
30 June
2014 
Number
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
Number
Selling and distribution 263 249
Production 204 191 
Administration 383 364 
850 804
t otal full time equivalents at 30 June 2014 were 784 (2013: 742).
d) retirement benefits
the Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes. t otal contributions to the schemes during the year were £777,000  
(2013: £613,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 112
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. Cash generated from operations
Group Company
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Profit from continuing operations before income tax 8,592 5,116 2,781 24,576 
Gain on disposal of property — (3,325) — —
cash flows from other adjusting items (see note 5) 764 1,325 269 728 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 14) 1,025 1,043 138 147 
Impairment of goodwill — 4,500 — —
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 13) 7,102 6,860 23 55
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 94 — —
Share based payments (including social security costs) 924 888 382 280 
Net finance costs (see note 6) 2,138 2,256 1,383 2,064 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 20,579 18,757 4,976 27,850
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (452) 64 11,132 4,606 
Increase in trade and other payables 77 564 633 997
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items 20,204 19,385 16,741 33,453 
cash conversion is calculated as a percentage of cash generated by operations to Adjusted ebIt A as follows:
Year ended 
30 June 
2014 
£’000
Year ended 
30 June 
2013 
£’000
Funds from operations before adjusting items:
Adjusted ebIt A (see note 2) 18,704 16,865
Amortisation of intangible assets – computer software 816 755 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 14) 1,025 1,043 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 94
Operating cash before movement in working capital 20,579 18,757 
Net working capital movement (375) 628 
Funds from operations before adjusting items 20,204 19,385
cash conversion 108% 115% 
Free cash flows:
Operating cash before movement in working capital 20,579 18,757
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (34) (94)
Net working capital movement (375) 628
Net finance costs paid (1,863) (2,011)
t ax paid (3,285) (2,926)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (883) (1,217)
Purchase of intangible assets (955) (764)
Free cash flows 13,184 12,373
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
113
PRO FORMA FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRO FORMA 
FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY (UNAUDITED)
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Consolidated Income Statements
revenue 78.4 83.8 85.3 85.0 90.0
Net operating expenses (before adjusting items) (64.0) (68.9) (69.6) (68.1) (71.3)
Adjusted ebIt A 14.4 14.9 15.7 16.9 18.7
Other adjusting items (0.1) (0.7) (0.9) (1.3) (0.8)
Gain on disposal of property — — — 3.3 —
Amortisation (4.9) (5.7) (5.3) (6.1) (6.3)
Impairment — — — (4.5) —
Share-based payments (0.2) (0.6) (0.5) (0.9) (0.9)
Operating profit 9.2 7.9 9.0 7.4 10.7
Net finance costs (1.9) (1.8) (2.7) (2.3) (2.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 7.3 6.1 6.3 5.1 8.6
t axation (2.5) (1.5) (1.2) (1.5) (2.0)
Profit on ordinary activities after tax 4.8 4.6 5.1 3.6 6.6
Adjusted profit before tax 12.6 12.9 13.2 14.7 16.6
cash generated from operations before adjusting items 15.5 15.8 17.4 19.4 20.2
basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (pence) 5.38 5.20 5.81 4.17 7.59
Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (pence) 5.30 5.07 5.63 4.07 7.39
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (pence) 10.16 11.38 11.71 13.06 14.79
Interim and proposed final dividend per share (pence) 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.30
return on equity
1
 (%) 23.95 24.75 26.84 28.50 31.94 
return on sales
2
 (%) 17.79 17.27 18.38 19.83 20.78
1 return on equity – Adjusted Profit before t ax divided by the average equity attributable to owners of the parent.
2 return on sales – Adjusted ebIt A divided by revenue.
www.wilmington.co.uk Stock Code: WIL 114
23504.04    6 OctOber 2014 4:27 PM    PrOOF 2
SHAREHOLDER  
NOTES
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 ADVISERS AND  
CORPORATE CALENDAR
Stock Code: WIL www.wilmington.co.uk
Financial advisers and  
joint stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited  
10 Paternoster Square  
London EC4M 7LT
Canaccord Genuity Hawkpoint 
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 9QR
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH
Solicitors 
Wragge Lawrence Graham & Co 
4 More London Riverside  
London SE1 2AU
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc 
1 Churchill Place 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5HP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing BN99 6DA
Shareholder helpline
+44 (0) 871 384 2855 (UK) 
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 (Overseas)
Registered address
6–14 Underwood Street  
London N1 7JQ
Wilmington Group plc
6–14 Underwood Street 
London N1 7JQ 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7422 6822 
www.wilmington.co.uk
Corporate calendar 
Annual General Meeting 
6 November 2014
Announcement of Interim Results 
February 2015
Announcement of Final Results 
September 2015
115 Wilmington Group plc
6–14 Underwood Street
London
N1 7JQ
Tel: +44 (0)20 7422 6822
www.wilmington.co.uk
