 Annu Al report And Accounts 20 10
Winc Anton plc Annu Al report And Accounts 2010
Methuen Park  
Chippenham  
Wiltshire SN14 0WT  
United Kingdom
Registered in England & 
Wales under No. 41 78808
Tel +44 (0)1249 71 00 00
Fax +44 (0)1249 71 00 01
Wincanton plc
www.wincanton.co.uk
producti Vit Y And eFFicienc Y 
custo Mer p Artners Hips le Adin G 
edGe tec Hnolo GY World -cl Ass 
ser Vice oper Ation Al eXcellence 
sector e Xpertise A nd K no Wled Ge 
pro Ject A nd c HAnGe MAnAGeMent 
le Ver AGinG custo Mers ’ Assets 
dri VinG For G ro Wt H o ur business
o ur Vision
Wincanton is a european market leader.  
We design, implement and manage supply  
chain solutions which are efficient, economical  
and environmentally sustainable.
o ur services cover the entire supply chain, from 
raw materials to recycling, helping our customers 
to optimise their performance and compete with 
confidence in their chosen markets. increasingly, 
our customers are looking to us to provide an  
even broader range of business support services.
t he products and services we manage touch  
most parts of daily life.
Wincanton. More than you think.
is to be the first choice for our people,  
our customers and our shareholders.
o ur people provide o ur customers receive
> integrity
> Mutual trust
> passion
> Accountability
> commitment
> teamwork
> o perational excellence
> proactive partnership
> innovation 
> productivity and cost efficiency
> competitive advantage
Design and production 
Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Printing 
Royle Corporate Print
Royle Corporate Print is FSC and ISO 14001 certified with strict procedures 
in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
This report is printed on Cocoon Silk and Cocoon Offset papers which  
are made from 100% recycled waste. All pulps used are Elemental 
Chlorine-Free (ECF). These papers have been independently certified 
as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and 
were manufactured at mills certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS 
environmental standards.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council. This ensures that there is an audited 
chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to 
the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 – A pattern of control for an environmental management 
system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
EMAS – The Eco-Management and Audit Scheme represents the 
highest standard for environmental requirements in Europe. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   1
Contents
Overview
2 Financial highlights
3 Chairman’s introduction
4 Growth drivers
The strategic focus
5 Chief Executive’s review
How we performed
16 Performance measures
16 2009/10 summary
17 Operational performance highlights
20 Risks
Working responsibly 
21 People
22 Health and safety
23 Environment
24 Community
Governance
25 Board of Directors
26 Directors’ report
30 Corporate governance 
33 Directors’ remuneration report
43 Independent Auditors’ report
Accounts
44 Consolidated income statement
45  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
46 Consolidated balance sheet
47 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
48 Consolidated statement of cash flows
49  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
75 Wincanton plc Company balance sheet
76  Notes to the Wincanton plc Company 
financial statements
Additional information
79 Group five-year record
79 Financial calendar
80 Shareholder information
10 UK & Ireland 1 4 Mainland Europe
Wincanton has leading positions in growth 
markets and has invested significantly in  
new activities with tremendous potential.”
Graeme McFaull
Chief Executive
1 2 New sectors and services 2   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
 EBIT (£m) 
 
EBITDA margin (%) 
 DA (£m) 
 
EBIT margin (%)
 
Free Cash Flow (£m)
UNDERL YING EBIT, EBITDA AND FREE CASH FLOW
2005/062006/07 2007 /082008/09 2009/10
2.5%
2.0%
3.5%
3.0%
4.0%
4.5%
5.0%
10
0
30
20
40
60
50
70
80
100
90
£m
• Growth pre-recession and resilience in challenging markets.
• Strong track record of prot and cash ow generation.
• Dividend CAGR of [8.0 per cent] pre-recession, dividend maintained 
 in 2008/09 and 2009/10.
Overview
FinAnCiAl Hig Hlig Hts: A RE sili Ent p ERFORmAnCE
FinAnCiAl Hig Hlig Hts: A st ROng t RACk RECORd
UNDERly ING EBITDA
£93.2m 2009: £96.9m
 
FREE CASH Fl OW
£83.5m 2009: £57 .5m
 
UNDERly ING EARNINGS PER SHARE
20.9p 2009: 24.7p
UNDERly ING OPERATING PROFIT
£54.6m 2009: £59.6m
 
RETURN ON CAPITAl EMP l OyED
75.5% 2009: 52.4%
 
FUll y EAR DIvIDEND
14. 9 1 p 2009: 14.91p
Operating profit is reported on an underlying basis, i.e. including share of results of associates but before amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
any goodwill impairment and exceptionals. Underlying EBITDA and underlying earnings per share are calculated on the same basis.
Free cash flow comprises underlying EBITDA plus working capital and net capital expenditure flows. 
Return on capital employed is calculated as underlying operating profit over net assets/(liabilities) adjusted for goodwill, acquired intangibles, 
debt, tax, employee benefits and insurance provisions.
>  Strong customer relationships, contract base and sector diversity underpin  
resilient financial performanc e
>  Asset -light business model continues to generate high levels of free cash flow
>  F ull-year dividend again maintained
>  Growth pre-recession and resilience in challenging markets
>  Strong track record of profit and cash flow generation.
>  Dividend CA GR of 8.0 per cent pre-recession, dividend maintained in 2008/09 and 2009 / 1 0 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009/10: ANOTHER RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
Wincanton has a blue chip customer base, leading market positions and a 
cash-generative business model. Its financial performance through the recession 
has proved the resilience of its operations, the breadth and diversity of its activities 
and the strength of its contract portfolio. It is this profit and cash flow resilience, 
together with the growth potential of the Group’s businesses as we look to the 
future, that has given the Board the confidence to maintain the full-year dividend  
at 14.91p.
Underlying operating profit of £54.6m, although an 8.4 per cent reduction on last 
year, is a creditable performance given the severity of the economic recession that 
we have experienced. Underlying earnings before interest, tax and depreciation 
experienced a smaller, 3.8 per cent decline, to £93.2m although both our profit-to-
cash flow conversion rates and returns on capital employed remained very high,  
at 153 per cent and 75.5 per cent respectively.
Wincanton invests in the skills of its people, in operational excellence and in  
the highest standards of customer service. Sustaining focus on these key areas 
creates, over time, a highly-skilled and motivated workforce, an industry-leading 
reputation for service quality and long-standing partnerships with our customers. 
My thanks, and those of the Directors, go to all the Group’s employees, who have 
again demonstrated the commitment, expertise and enthusiasm which remain 
fundamental to the continuing success of Wincanton.
We are targeting an improvement in the Group’s 
underlying performance next year and a return 
to growth.
STRATEGY: THREE PLATFORMS FOR GROWTH
We have three areas of strategic focus. 
Our mainstream supply chain services activities in the UK remain strong and 
continue to demonstrate growth potential. We would expect these activities to 
grow faster than underlying GDP . 
Our new sectors and services, of which there are currently seven, have all been  
set stretching targets of delivering £10m of annual profit contribution within the  
next five years. These new sectors and services have the potential to transform  
the scale and profitability of our operations in the UK & Ireland. 
Our operations in Mainland Europe continue to offer geographic diversification  
for the Group and the opportunity to leverage customer relationships and sector 
expertise across borders. The restructuring of our German road network is nearing 
completion and we now expect to have a stronger and more stable platform for 
growth, enabling us to focus both on those countries in which we have critical  
mass and the continuing expansion of our Pan-European freight management  
and forwarding operations.
We have invested heavily in recent years in restructuring our business, increasing 
capacity in some of our newer activities and expanding the range of our operations 
through infill acquisitions. Our year-end net debt of £1 5 1.9m represents our substantive 
investment in these areas. We are now highly focused on ensuring that this 
investment delivers the profit and cash flow returns that will see Wincanton continue 
to build on its strong pre-recession track record of earnings and dividend growth.
OUTLOOK: RECOv ERY ANd GROWTH 
As we start the new financial year, our development pipeline is encouraging and 
customer volumes give grounds for cautious optimism. We remain cautious about 
the economic outlook but are nonetheless targeting an improvement in underlying 
performance next year and a return to growth. Through next year and into the 
medium term, we expect Wincanton’s portfolio of activities in the UK & Ireland to 
benefit strongly from economic recovery and from the substantial investments 
made in recent years in new capacity and in new sectors and services. We also 
anticipate a steady improvement in profitability in Mainland Europe.
The Board believes that the underlying strength of Wincanton has been 
demonstrated through the recession. It gives us a platform on which we can  
build growth.
David Edmonds
Chairman
CHAiRmAn’s int ROdUC ti On
Wincanton has performed well through the 
recession and is now well-placed for recovery 
and growth in the wider economy.”
David Edmonds
Chairman 4   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Overview
gROWt H dRivERs
strong positions in 
growth markets
innovation and 
sector expertise
l everaging 
our core skills
l ong-term 
partnerships
8,000 vehicles
health and safety 
excellence
tailored solutions
operational excellence
scale and diversity
warehouse and 
transport  
management
multimodal capabilities
dedicated teams
28,000 
employees
continuous 
improvement 
culture
change management
end to end supply 
chain solutions
proven track record
inventory management
sharing assets
strong industrial relations
vehicle design
We are successfully leveraging our skill base across 
customers, sectors and geographies, building 
on the strength of our core business and on our 
long-term partnerships. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   5
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOt Enti Al
Wincanton has leading positions in growth 
markets and has invested significantly in new 
activities with tremendous potential.”
Graeme McFaull
Chief Executive
The Wincanton business has changed very substantially in the last three to five 
years, and even more so since our demerger nearly 10 years ago. Prior to the 
recession, as a result of these changes, the Group was delivering double-digit 
percentage increases in earnings and a dividend stream that had grown by 
approximately 8 per cent per annum on average. Through the recession we  
have proved our resilience, continued to invest for the future and maintained  
our dividend payment to shareholders. We now have a portfolio of activities  
which will again deliver strong growth for Wincanton in the coming years.
UK & IRELANd : 
A strong base and transformational opportunity
Wincanton is one of the UK & Ireland’s leading providers of supply chain services. 
Operating profit of £48.4m on revenue of £1.3bn, although down by a little under  
8 per cent, again confirms the strength and quality of our UK & Ireland operations. 
There was some pricing pressure in our existing activities, albeit mitigated by 
continuing new business momentum, but much of the year-on-year movement is 
attributable to either the effect of investment in new capacity or the impact of 
recession on activity levels in some of our new sectors and services.
The key drivers of our growth in the UK & Ireland over time, which again provided a 
strong and stable base for the business in the year to 31 March 2010, have been:
•	l ong-standing partnership with major customers; the average length of 
contractual relationship with our top 20 customers is approximately 12 years;
•	A track record of delivering operational excellence, innovation and value; 2009/10 
was another excellent year of performance against contract requirements, with 
average warehouse productivity improving some 7 per cent year-on-year;
•	The ability to anticipate changing trends, developing new supply chain and 
business processing outsourcing solutions for our customers; approximately  
65 per cent of contract gains in the year again came from existing customers;
•	Industry-leading change management, project management and systems 
integration skills, which give customers the confidence to entrust us with the 
implementation of complex outsourcing processes;
•	A cash-generative business model which funds growth through leases, with 
volume risk and cost fluctuations substantially underwritten by customers; and
•	The determination to keep enhancing our portfolio of activities, successfully 
targeting and delivering growth opportunities in new sectors and services.
We expect all of these factors to continue to underpin and drive our growth  
in the future.
We now have a portfolio of activities which will again  
 deliver strong growth for Wincanton in the coming years.
>  Continuing opportunity in the UK & Ireland
>  Attractive growth in new sectors and services
>  Rec overy and growth in Mainland E urope 6   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOt Enti Al
Building on the strong base of our mainstream activities
Our mainstream activities in the UK & Ireland consist of supply chain services for 
large retailers, manufacturers and industrial companies principally related to fleet 
management, transport and warehousing activities. Over time, new services have 
been added as our customers’ requirements have continued to evolve, taking us 
into areas such as call centres, procurement, training and facilities management.
There continues to be great opportunity for Wincanton to develop profitably from 
this strong base, as further evidenced by contract wins and renewals in the year to 
31 March 2010: 
•	Our leadership in the retail sector saw M&S award one of the largest contracts in 
the UK this year to Wincanton. Best Buy also placed its confidence in Wincanton to 
support the delivery of its UK launch. Other contract wins and renewals in the year 
include Superquinn (a leading Irish food retailer) and primary transport for ASDA  
in North East England. Wincanton already operates for 9 out of the top 10 UK 
retailers, but only 12 out of the top 50. There is substantial scope for further market 
share gains in the retail sector, with a very limited number of competitors able to 
match Wincanton’s track record in both complex solution design and 
implementation and the operational excellence which assures consistently high 
levels of service post-implementation.
•	In vehicle and fleet management we are working with our customers to combine 
the benefits of the traditional shared user and dedicated models to deliver 
collaborative, sustainable transport solutions. Wincanton has visibility and 
management control over a combined vehicle fleet in excess of 8,000 vehicles; 
giving the market-leading scale necessary to provide the service quality and 
reliability which are fundamental to customers. Collaborative transport models 
have been successfully trialled in the year for both leading retailers and 
manufacturers, including shared resource for High Street retailers and load 
consolidation amongst manufacturers in different industries. Customer wins and 
renewals in the year in vehicle and fleet management included WH Smith, GSK, 
Britvic, Chevron and Air Products. 
There continues to be great opportunity for Wincanton  
 to develop profitably from this strong base.
•	As our relationships with customers broaden and develop we will seek to continue 
to expand our service offering, potentially taking us further into other areas  
of business process outsourcing. We were already active in 2009/10 with 
customers including J Sainsbury, Argos, Homebase and Chevron in delivering 
services such as facilities management, cleaning, training, procurement and call 
centres and believe there will be profitable opportunity to consolidate and further 
develop our current services in such fields. 
•	Other sector opportunities will also develop. Our Pullman Fleet Services business, 
for example, one of the UK’s leading independent vehicle maintenance and fleet 
management operations, is already actively exploring opportunities in the 
public sector. 
•	A joint venture has recently been established with Serco plc, targeting a number 
of public sector opportunities currently in the market. We believe there to be very 
attractive potential for Wincanton in the public sector and indeed in other industry 
verticals in which we have not historically had a major presence.
The further development and enhancement of our activities in the UK & Ireland 
remains an area of significant growth potential for Wincanton.
t ransformational potential of new sectors and services
Where new service or sector opportunities are considered to have the potential to 
become significant new income streams in their own right, they become the focus 
of particular strategic challenge and operational focus.
Development in these new areas is based on the leveraging of our existing core 
skills, often with our existing customer base. The businesses are overseen within  
our Retail and Manufacturing business units in the UK, although generally with  
their own dedicated Managing Director, and are set separate targets for strategic 
purposes given their higher margin and growth profile. 
Each of the activities has been set a target of delivering £10m of annual profit 
contribution within five years. Together in 2009/10, before central overhead 
allocation, they reported a profit contribution of £10.3m on revenue of £290.8m, 
with the result in the year impacted by losses in our shared user home delivery 
network prior to its closure and the costs of investment in increased capacity in 
records management, recycling and foodservice.
Against the background of our reported operating profit for the UK & Ireland of 
£48.4m in 2009/10, even if not all of the seven current activities meet their strategic 
target in full, these businesses clearly have the potential to transform the scale and 
profitability of the Group.
No significant further investment is currently either planned, or anticipated to be 
required, to deliver against the strategic targets set for these areas. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   7
The activities currently included within this strategic grouping, and some of the 
further significant developments in the year in each, are summarised below:
Foodservice •	 : Investment in new facilities in the North West and the South East, 
development of the next generation of IT support systems and a transport 
solution based on Wincanton-designed specialist vehicles, have created an 
innovative new offering that brings a step change in the cost, efficiency and 
sustainability of supply chain services for major hotel, pub and restaurant  
groups. A substantial five-year contract award from one of the UK’s fastest-growing 
restaurant groups provides the anchor customer for our new facility in the South 
East and the development pipeline over the next 18 months points to significant 
growth opportunity.
Records •	 management: We have invested in new capacity in l ondon, Dublin, 
Scotland and the South West for documents, boxes and media tapes and expect 
to have full national coverage within the next 18-24 months. There are a limited 
number of competitors of national scale in the sector, and our facilities are at  
the forefront of security and fire suppression legislation. Our new capacity is  
being filled ahead of expectations and we are well-placed to continue to benefit  
from the overall growth expected in the industry. Wins and renewals in the  
year included Allied Irish Bank, Aviva, City of l ondon Police, Friends Provident, 
Knight Frank and State Street. In total, just under 40 new contracts were signed in 
2009/10, and there is particular interest going forward in our recently expanded 
media tapes facilities.
Containers: •	 By extending our services for customers back up the supply chain, 
from distribution centre to port, we are generating efficiency, visibility and service 
level improvements in the inbound supply chain of major manufacturers and 
retailers. Over 370,000 containers are moved every year, by road and by rail, 
through our national network of port and inland container terminals. New contract 
gains in the year included wins with existing customers such as Argos, Panasonic 
and Screwfix, confirming the considerable potential for further market share gains. 
These market share gains, particularly through the cross-selling of services into 
existing customers, combined with volume uplift through economic recovery in 
due course, will be the key drivers of growth in this activity.
Construction: •	 Our business in the construction sector focuses on providing  
high quality and reliable service, on a national basis, to large building product 
manufacturers, housebuilding and infrastructure companies and builders’ 
merchants. Supply chain services for such customers have, traditionally, been 
either in-house or provided by a fragmented supplier base of small regional 
operators. Our national network of sites and vehicles offers a collaborative, 
sustainable and cost-effective alternative not previously available to companies 
in the sector. Contract wins and renewals were recorded in the year with Ibstock, 
Cemex and Speedy Hire, adding to our existing activities with groups such as 
l afarge, Saint Gobain and Wavin. This is another activity in which economic 
recovery should add further momentum to market share gains.
Home •	 delivery: Home delivery represents the UK’s fastest-growing retail 
distribution channel. Wincanton’s services to customers in this sector include call 
centre operations, automated picking in e-fulfilment centres, two-man home 
delivery and installation and returns management. Already operating for 
customers such as Comet and Homebase, the major contract award in the year 
to manage M&S’s home delivery operations confirms the strength of Wincanton’s 
service offering in the marketplace. Now successfully implemented, including the 
integration of a new, leading-edge IT system, the contract is delivering significant 
cost and service level benefits to M&S. 
defence: •	 Fundamental supply chain changes are under way in the defence  
sector, as Government agencies are actively considering greater outsourcing 
and changes in procurement processes require major manufacturers to provide 
equipment on the basis of ‘contracts for availability’. With an extensive track record 
of successful management of major procurement programmes, and a strong 
customer base amongst the leading sector manufacturers, Wincanton is extremely 
well-placed to benefit from these changes. Major wins and renewals in the year 
included contracts with BAE Systems, AgustaWestland and the Aircraft Carrier 
Alliance adding to existing operations for other groups such as Thales, General 
Dynamics, Rolls-Royce and vT Group. A further sign of progress in this area is the 
Framework Procurement Agreement now in place with BAE Systems making us a 
preferred logistics provider. 
Recycling: •	 l egislation increasingly places the responsibility for recycling waste 
onto retailers and manufacturers. Our customers are facing major pressures  
to manage waste flows, whether paper and packaging from grocery retailers,  
white and brown goods from electrical retailers, or food waste from hotel and 
restaurant customers. By combining collection, sortation and the recycling of 
waste materials, particularly electronic and electrical equipment through our own 
processing sites, Wincanton is helping customers to address this significant new 
challenge to their existing supply chains.
These businesses clearly have the potential to  
 transform the scale and profitability of the Group.
Construction: Our national network of shared  
user sites and vehicles offers a collaborative,  
sustainable and cost-effective alternative
Records management: Our new capacity 
is being filled ahead of expectations 8   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOtE nti Al
MAINLANd EUROPE:
Recovery and growth
Mainland Europe reported operating profit of £6.2m on revenue of £856.5m  
in the financial year to 31 March 2010. 
Our Mainland European strategy remains focused on:
•	Offering national, cross-border and Pan-European services to our major customers. 
The growing list of customers for which we operate on a multi-country basis 
includes Goodyear, Dow, Honeywell, GSK, Danone, Panasonic, InBev, velux and 
Nutreco. Multi-country relationships such as these not only offer opportunities for 
further growth but also, to differing degrees, help to secure important contracts in 
key national markets, not least in the UK & Ireland.
•	A common link between these customers, in addition to domestic warehousing 
and transport operations as further discussed below, is our growing expertise in 
international transport and freight management, whether by road, rail, river or sea. 
–  we are a market leader in the management of container traffic on the Rhine,  
with river-based activities also in France and Poland. 
–  we move goods by rail across Europe working either with partners, or, in 
Germany, through our in-house rail operations.
– we move goods by road on a Pan-European basis using a combination of our 
own managed activities in certain countries and partners in other countries in 
which we do not have a domestic presence. 
– we offer customs clearance and freight forwarding services at a number of 
locations across Europe including l e Havre, Strasbourg, Rotterdam, Basle, 
Hamburg and Gdansk. 
– our Dutch business has developed a particular expertise in freight management 
and forwarding into the former Soviet republics in Central Asia with extensive 
operations for the major structural steel companies such as Corus, Thyssen 
Krupp and Arcelor Mittal supporting the huge offshore oilfield investment 
programme in Kazakhstan. 
•	In addition to investing in this cross-border freight management expertise,  
we are continuing to develop critical mass in major economies such as Germany, 
France and Poland. In each of these countries we have extensive domestic 
operations and are progressively building a track record, customer base and 
market reputation which will enable us to win and implement the complex 
warehousing and supply chain contracts that have for many years been at the 
profitable core of our UK & Ireland operations.
Wins, renewals and successful contract implementations in the period included 
those for customers such as Wincor Nixdorf, Honeywell and John Deere in Germany, 
Total, Daikin, Goodyear and Eprus in France, and Danone, Electrolux, Panasonic, Kraft 
Foods and AMICA in Poland. We also have domestic operations in Holland, Hungary, 
the Czech Republic and Slovakia, either operating and winning new business 
independently, or helping to service Group customers on a regional basis. Wins and 
renewals in the period included Provimi in Holland, and Henkel and BAT in Hungary.
A major objective for us in the year was the restructuring of the loss-making activities 
within our German road transport business, involving a reduction in headcount of 
some 400 employees, the closure of five sites and the substantial scaling back of 
activities at a further four locations. This major programme of operational, customer 
and employee change was successfully delivered without disruption to our business 
or deterioration in service quality. We now have a more profitable and significantly 
stronger business base in Germany. 
With the restructuring of our German road activities now implemented, and with the 
negative effects of our surplus space issues in France progressively reducing, we are 
in a position to focus on growth opportunities for the future without diverting 
management and financial resource to deal with the legacy issues of the past.
We will generate sustainable profit and cash flow  
 performance from Mainland Europe.
Building a brand with high-quality credentials in a demanding service industry  
has not proved to be easy for us in Mainland Europe. The volume impact of the 
recession has pushed us backwards rather than forwards in our efforts to deliver 
growth from a more stable, efficient operational base. We continue to believe, 
nonetheless, that this growth can and will be delivered. 
We expect to make progress again in 2010/1 1 towards our margin targets for 
Mainland Europe. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   9
dRiving FOR g ROWt H in OUR t HREE kEy AREAs...
> Operational excellence
> leading -edge technology
> project and change management
> l everaging customers’ assets
> World-class service
> Customer partnerships
> sector expertise and knowledge
> productivity and efficiency
Uk & ireland new sectors and services mainland Europe
By delivering our core  
strengths across the business 10   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
UK & Ireland
Continuing growth momentum
The bUsIness T od Ay
Wincanton is a market leader in the provision of complex supply chain services.
With a presence across most sectors of the UK economy, Wincanton’s customer base  
includes the country’s major manufacturers and retailers, and the company has built  
an enviable reputation for innovation, operational excellence, value and partnership.
By working proactively with its customers, and by analysing and interpreting long-term  
market trends, Wincanton has created a portfolio of activities of increasing diversity,  
breadth and scale.
FUTURe gRo WTh
Wincanton will:
further develop and expand its strong existing customer partnerships >
continue to grow its share of existing markets >
 broaden the scope of its current value-added offering by identifying   >
new opportunities for service enhancement
continue to identify growth potential in new sectors and industry verticals >
FRom Ro Ad To RAI l F o R bRITvIc
Through a partnership with malcolm l ogistics, Wincanton has 
introduced a daily rail route from the midlands to s cotland for 
soft drinks manufacturer britvic, moving an average of 1 million 
bottles each day from britvic’s plant in l utterworth and taking 
50 lorries off the roads. Working together we are able to utilise 
all the space on the train in both directions, delivering both 
environmental and cost benefits and reducing co 2 emissions  
by 3,285 tonnes each year.
 1million
bottles moved each day
Inves TIng I n ne W Technology 
Wincanton and international building materials manufacturer 
l afarge have launched a brand new fleet of 25 state-of-the-art 
teardrop trailers, helping to reduce co 2 emissions and tackle 
climate change. Thanks to advances in aerodynamics, the new fleet 
will reduce fuel consumption by 8 per cent and has the ability to 
carry up to 16 per cent more cargo.
 2 5
state-of-the-art  
teardrop trailers
l utterworth
mossend
 3
,
285
tonnes of CO2 emissions  
saved each year Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   11
Wincanton has invested over £1m in a new fleet of lighter 
weight tractor units to be used collaboratively by its customers 
h J h einz and adidas. The tractor units are coupled with a new 
generation of trailers that allow for improved load capacity 
while generating fewer co 2 emissions – resulting in cost savings 
and increased productivity. 
The h einz and adidas contracts are managed from Wincanton’s 
regional planning centre, which is geared towards maximising 
efficiencies through optimum vehicle usage. 
o ver the last year, adidas and Wincanton have also reviewed 
their end-to-end distribution process, resulting in 20 per 
cent more deliveries being made direct from the port to the 
customer’s home, enhancing operational efficiency while 
minimising co 2 emissions. 
£1million
invested in a new fleet
20%
more deliveries
bUIld Ing on o UR PARTneRsh IP 
APPRo Ach WIT h b&Q
building on its nine-year partnership with b&Q, Wincanton 
has been awarded two new contracts during the last year 
to generate further efficiencies and increase productivity 
across the retailer’s supply chain.
In the Republic of Ireland and n orthern Ireland, Wincanton 
has extended its services to become b&Q’s sole transport 
partner. The company expects to deliver over 4,000 loads 
per annum, including power tools, fixtures and fittings. 
This builds on existing contracts to distribute b&Q’s 
horticultural products across Ireland and the UK.
Wincanton has also streamlined b&Q’s home delivery 
operations in the n orth l ondon and essex regions, where 
it manages the warehousing and delivery of b&Q kitchens, 
bathrooms and bedroom furniture from a single site.
 1 2
,
000
product lines available at speed
 2 5
state-of-the-art  
teardrop trailers
“ Wincanton brings a really proactive approach to the 
table, every month coming up with new ideas and 
opportunities where we can look at improving our 
vehicle fill and reducing our emissions”
Paul Suchoparek
o perations d irector, Area n orth adidas group
 3
,
285
tonnes of CO2 emissions  
saved each year
building on existing customer contracts
Wincanton expects 
to deliver over 4,000 
loads per annum, 
including power tools, 
fixtures and fittings. 12   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
new sectors and services
T ransformational growth opportunity
del IveRIng o PeRATIon Al A nd se RvIce bene FITs
The foodservice industry supplies goods to restaurants and food outlets – from 
vegetables and fresh bread to napkins and beer glasses. but the traditional way of 
providing foodservice has its challenges. many restaurants receive their deliveries 
piecemeal, throughout the day, diverting staff from doing what they do best, 
which is keeping their customers happy.
Wincanton’s approach to foodservice is very different, and provides customers 
and prospective partners with major operational and service benefits, including 
significantly improved accuracy of delivery. And, by consolidating deliveries, 
the time and space required to accept and handle goods at the restaurants is 
enormously reduced.
The bUsIness T od Ay
Wincanton has identified a number of sectors and services offering high margin and  
high growth potential, including home delivery, foodservice and container logistics. 
The company has invested in these areas, both organically and through acquisition,  
to create a strong market presence, a powerful service offering and capacity for growth.
Wincanton has set a target in each of the areas, currently seven in total, each to deliver  
£10m of profit contribution within five years.
FUTURe gRo WTh
Wincanton will:
 s > upport these activities through high levels of operational and strategic focus
 w > ork with our existing customer base to generate new business opportunities in  
these new sectors
 c > ontinue to identify and develop other high margin and high growth opportunities
A new approach to foodservice
centralised service:
Wincanton’s centralised service, based around regional 
distribution centres, takes the equivalent of 
480 vehicles  
off the road.
every week:
Wincanton foodservice vehicles make over 
3
,
000  
deliveries, carrying over 2,000 product lines –  
from fresh vegetables to wines, napkins and cutlery.
every year:
Wincanton vehicles deliver 
£1 25 million 
worth of food items, including 14,000 tonnes of chips – 
enough to stretch around the world 4.5 times. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   13
mARKs & sP ence R home del IveRy  
– le Ad Ing by ex AmPle
In 2009, Wincanton won a five-year contract to run the marks 
& spencer home delivery service, geared to making 200,000 
deliveries in its first year of operation. 
Wincanton is able to achieve these volumes through a combination 
of advanced warehousing, brand new call centre technology and 
an end-to-end system capability. This integrated solution enables 
m&s to track customers’ purchases and monitor service levels from 
the moment they make their order to final assembly in their home. 
For m&s, operational efficiency has led to reduced inventory 
levels and brought greater levels of customer communication, 
transparency and accountability. l ess than one year in, 
m&s’s partnership with Wincanton has produced successful 
first-time deliveries.
Significant savings  
have been generated 
for year one with a clear 
approach in place to 
double this in year two.
200
,
000
M&S home deliveries in year one
del IveRIng s Ign IFIc AnT  
sAvIngs F o R ARgos T hRo Ugh  
A PARTneRsh IP APPRo Ach 
Argos is the UK’s biggest retailer-importer, bringing 
35,000 containers a year into the country. In 2009 
Wincanton signed a three-year contract to become 
the primary supplier of Argos’ inbound supply chain, 
building on its 13-year partnership and existing 
warehousing and transport operations. 
Working in close partnership with Argos, and 
through forming joint Argos/Wincanton teams, 
Wincanton has brought significant benefits and 
efficiencies. 
by optimising Argos’ fleet and drivers,  
supplemented by its own vehicles, Wincanton has 
generated significant savings for year one, and 
is poised to double the costs saved in year two. 
Furthermore, the retailer’s environmental impact  
has been significantly reduced as a consequence  
of running fewer empty vehicles on the road. 
35,000 Argos containers a year mainland europe
Delivering recovery and growth
The bUsIness T od Ay
Wincanton has a strong domestic presence in the key European economies of Germany,  
France and Poland and good coverage of the Benelux and Central European economies.
It has a leading intermodal business, moving international freight by road, rail, river and sea, 
and growing Pan-European road transport capabilities through a combination of its own 
operations and a network of selected service partners.
Investment in branding, management resources and organisational restructuring has 
progressively created a stronger more stable platform for growth across the continent.
FUTURe gRo WTh
Wincanton will:
deliver the expected benefits of the restructuring of its German road activities >
grow consistently and profitably in its key national markets >
continue to develop its  > Pan-European intermodal and freight management capabilities
build a profitable Mainland European business which contributes materially to the Group > 
30% reduction  
in CO2 emissions
30% RedUc TIon I n co 2 emIss Ions FR om  
The eURo PeAn s UPPly ch AIn Fo R To P 10 
InTeRnATIon Al P hARmAceUTIc Al com PAny 
Wincanton, which handles european freight management for one of 
the world’s foremost pharmaceutical companies, has been actively 
working to shift freight management away from road journeys in favour 
of more carbon-efficient intermodal options such as rail and sea freight. 
co 2 emissions will also be significantly reduced through the use of 
double-deck trailers, more efficient packaging schemes and improved 
delivery schedules.
14   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   15
WInc AnTon A nd g oodye AR 
Wincanton’s 30-year partnership with global tyre manufacturer 
g oodyear goes from strength-to-strength. building on existing 
freight distribution operations throughout c entral and eastern 
europe, Wincanton’s distribution contract now extends to 
warehousing in Poland, where it manages g oodyear’s 46,000m
2
 
operation in Tarnów near Krakow. Wincanton manages 
distribution to 1,500 locations in Poland and to eight european 
countries. n ew business was also added with g oodyear in  
France in 2009/10.
30 years of partnership
 1
,
500
locations in Poland
WInc AnTon h As Ins TAlled  
The 1,000Th ‘sm ART ReFUnd’ 
ReveRse vend Ing m Ach Ine 
The machines, designed and built by g erman 
manufacturer Wincor n ixdorf, process empty 
bottles and cans returned by customers for 
recycling and calculate cash refund values for 
each deposit. Wincanton is responsible for the 
entire logistics management for the machines, 
including installation, calibration and testing.
 30
,
000
the number of annual shipments made  
by Wincanton on behalf of German 
industrial component giant, Würth 
Industries. Using its extensive freight 
management operations in Germany, 
Wincanton has seen a 15-fold increase in 
business volumes since the partnership 
began 10 years ago.
Wincanton manages goodyear’s
46,000m
2
 
warehouse in Tarnów, Poland 16   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
BUSINESS MODEL AND KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Profit momentum, cash generation and high returns on capital employed drive 
share price appreciation and the distribution of a sustainable and growing dividend 
stream. These are therefore the Group’s key measures and targets, facilitated by our 
asset-light business model.
P •	 rofit momentum: We are constantly re-evaluating the services, customers, 
sectors and geographies which make up Wincanton’s portfolio of businesses.  
We judge the progress being made by this portfolio, annually, on the basis of 
underlying profit performance and, over our rolling five-year strategy periods,  
against the stretching targets we set for cumulative operating profit growth.
For the financial year to 31 March 2010 we are reporting a decline in underlying 
profit, principally related to the major recession in the economies in which we 
operate, but the underlying strength and diversity of our activities underpinned 
a solid operational and financial performance. 
Our strategy work looking forward supports our confidence that, over the next 
five-year rolling strategy period, the Wincanton portfolio of activities has very 
significant growth potential.
•	Cash generation and return on capital employed: Much of the Group’s growth is 
funded by leases underwritten by customer contracts, either in respect of vehicles 
or property. Many of our activities take place at customer sites requiring only 
minimal capital commitments by Wincanton.
This asset-light approach to business expansion leads to good returns on 
individual projects and strong free cash flow generation for the Group overall.
Free cash flow of £83.5m, being EBITDA of £93.2m adjusted for working capital 
movements and net capital expenditure/disposal flows, represented a cash flow 
to underlying operating profit conversion rate of 153 per cent in the year.
Wincanton remains highly focused on sustaining and growing the high levels 
of free cash flow generation that have been a consistent feature of the Group’s 
financial performance. In the financial year to 31 March 2010, the majority, by value, 
of individual projects approved are on track to either meet or exceed their 
projected rate of cash flow return. 
Year-end return on capital employed, at 75.5 per cent, also again confirmed 
Wincanton’s ability to deliver strong results on an asset-light basis.
Dividend: •	 The Group’s asset-light business model and strong cash generation 
enables it both to fund its growth and deliver a sustainable, and growing,  
dividend stream.
Prior to the recession, the Wincanton dividend had grown by a compound annual 
growth rate of 8 per cent since the Group’s demerger in 2001. Through the 
recession, profit and cash flow resilience has given the Board the confidence to 
sustain the dividend at pre-recession levels. 
In the financial year to 31 March 2010, the Board’s recommendation is that the 
full-year dividend should again be maintained at 14.91p per share.
 Wincanton remains highly focused on sustaining and 
growing the high levels of free cash flow generation 
that have been a consistent feature of the Group’s  
financial performance.
2009/10 SUMMARY
Wincanton, on an underlying basis, reported EBITDA of £93.2m and operating profit 
of £54.6m on consolidated revenue of £2.2bn. These results were respectively  
3.8 per cent, 8.4 per cent and 7 .6 per cent below our performance in 2008/09.  
Group operating margin remained broadly unchanged at around 2.5 per cent. 
The profit-to-cash flow conversion rate remained high at 153 per cent. Year end net 
debt was reduced from £176.4m last year to £151.9m as at 31 March 2010.
This represents a resilient performance at the EBITDA and operating profit levels  
and a cash flow performance that confirms the cash-generative strength of our 
business model.
A STRONG TRACK RECORD AND  
A BUSINESS MODEL FOR GROWTH
How we performed
Our business model has delivered consistent 
profit and cash flow generation.”
Gerard Connell
Group Finance Director Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   17
The annualised revenue effect of new contract wins and renewals in the year 
totalled £280m, as compared to £250m in 2008/09. Approximately 65 per cent 
of new wins were generated from our existing customer base.
This high level of business expansion with existing customers has been a feature 
of our performance for many years, confirming the strength and depth of our 
customer base, the operational excellence of our performance and the innovation 
that we bring to our customer relationships. We help our customers to grow 
successfully and profitably and our business grows with theirs.
UK & IRELAND
The UK & Ireland businesses reported underlying operating profit of £48.4m  
on revenue of £1.3bn, and an operating margin of 3.7 per cent. This represents 
reductions of 7 .8 per cent and 8.9 per cent respectively on the results in the  
financial year to 31 March 2009.
The Manufacturing business unit makes up approximately 40 per cent of UK & 
Ireland revenue, Retail approximately 55 per cent and Pullman Fleet Services some 
5 per cent.
Revenue
Some 50 per cent of the revenue reduction is accounted for by the transfer of  
our chilled consolidation activities, with the balance split broadly between our 
Manufacturing and Retail business units. 
Within Manufacturing, revenue from the full-year impact of contract gains with 
customers such as BP Gas, Marley, Procter & Gamble, Lafarge and BAE Systems offset 
the reduction in revenue from contracts either lost or from which we withdrew, and 
from contracts with two customers who went into administration in the period. 
Revenue within the Manufacturing business unit is split equally between open and 
closed book, with closed book contracts generally more exposed to adverse 
movements in customer volumes. 
The contract base in the Retail business unit is made up of approximately 75 per 
cent open book contracts and 25 per cent closed book contracts. Net new business 
was won in Retail in the year, with the overall revenue decline being attributable to 
factors such as the closure of our shared user home delivery operations and 
network reconfiguration decisions by certain grocery retail customers.
Within the Retail and Manufacturing business units our new sectors and services 
contributed revenue of £290.8m, an increase on the £255.2m reported in the  
prior year, with most activities seeing market share gains which together more  
than mitigated the effects of volume pressure in certain activities as a result of the 
economic downturn. 
Pullman Fleet Services, our market-leading vehicle maintenance and fleet management 
business, reported a slightly higher revenue performance this year than in 2008/09.
Operating profit
Generally speaking, our open book contract base, which represents 61 per cent 
of our UK & Ireland business, generates a substantially fixed fee, rather than 
volume-related, profit stream.
Underlying operating profit of £48.4m reflects a generally strong performance with 
good new business wins continuing to provide profit momentum in challenging 
markets. Most of the headline year-on-year reduction, from £52.5m in 2008/09, is 
accounted for within the Retail business unit, represented by a combination of the 
costs of empty space in certain shared user warehousing sites, last year’s loss of 
Woolworths into administration, and lower results from certain of our new sectors 
and services. 
Within the overall UK & Ireland result, the profit contribution from the new sectors 
and services, before the allocation of central overhead, declined from £12.5m last 
year to £10.3m in 2009/10. Consistent or growing levels of profitability in construction, 
containers and defence were more than offset in the year by a poor performance 
in our shared user home delivery network, subsequently closed, and the costs 
of increased capacity and/or new systems in foodservice, records management 
and recycling.
Pullman Fleet Services returned to profit growth this year following a strong new 
business performance, particularly in the management of home delivery fleets for 
major retailers.
MAINLAND EUROPE
Revenue and underlying operating profit of £856.5m and £6.2m were respectively 
5.4 per cent and 1 2.7 per cent lower than in the financial year to 31 March 2009 in 
headline terms, although the underlying reductions were higher once movements in 
sterling/euro exchange rates are taken into consideration. Operating margin remained 
broadly unchanged at 0.7 per cent. 
Given that most of our Mainland European businesses operate on a closed book 
basis, and that as a result profit contribution is more likely to be affected by changes 
in customer volumes, maintaining our headline margin is testament to the speed 
and effectiveness of the management action taken to offset the financial effects of 
operating in extremely difficult markets.
Revenue
Germany contributed a little under 70 per cent of the Group’s revenue in Mainland 
Europe, with 23 per cent generated in Western Europe (France and Benelux) and  
the balance in Central & Eastern Europe. 
Revenue in the German business in 2009/10 was made up approximately as to 
40 per cent from our road transport activities, 35 per cent from our intermodal 
activities on the Rhine and 25 per cent from contract logistics. All areas reported 
similar rates of reduction in activity levels. Western Europe experienced a slightly 
lower level of revenue decline, with growth in our international transport and freight 
management activities, particularly through our new hub on the Dutch/German 
border, offsetting the effects of reduced volumes within many of our warehousing 
operations. Our Central & Eastern European activities also saw generally weaker 
volumes in their domestic operations, mitigated by new business opportunities 
in international transport and freight management.
Over the next five-year rolling strategy period, the  
 Wincanton portfolio of activities has very significant  
 growth potential.
£2, 182.9m
GROUP REv ENUE
20.9p
UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER Sh ARE
UK & IRELAND REVENUE
 Retail
 Manufacturing
 Pullman Fleet Services
56%
5%
39%
UK & IRELAND REVENUE
 Open book
 Closed book
61%
39% 18   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
How we performed
Operating profit
Underlying operating profit in Germany was substantially unchanged on last year, 
with higher profitability in intermodal and contract logistics offset by increased 
losses in our road activities, pending implementation of the major restructuring 
programme which began to take effect in the final quarter. 
Both the intermodal and contract logistics activities generate profit contribution 
margins broadly in line with those of the Group’s activities in the UK & Ireland. 
Successful completion of the road restructuring programme, the benefits of which 
we expect to be delivered through the first half of the new financial year, will give a 
more stable, profitable business base to the German operations.
In Western Europe, our contract logistics activities continue to suffer from the costs 
of under-utilised space. Economic recession has clearly not assisted in this respect, 
given that market declines have led to competitor space becoming available at 
extremely aggressive prices. Our transport business also reported reduced profitability, 
with good performances in domestic and international freight management, 
substantially based on sub-contracted transport, held back by losses in our remaining 
in-house fleet in France. Western Europe overall recorded a small loss in the year.
Similar market trends were evident in Central & Eastern Europe, with highly 
competitive warehousing rates and lower customer volumes putting pressure on 
the space utilisation and profitability of our sites. The region nonetheless returned  
to profit this year with new business wins adding further momentum to the  
benefits of recent restructuring and reorganisation.
NET FINANCING COSTS
Net financing costs, at £19.9m, were 8.7 per cent higher than last year, with a first  
half charge of £8.0m increasing to £1 1.9m as a consequence of the arrangement  
fees, higher margins and commitment fees on our new banking facilities.
Our financing costs can be analysed into cash items, essentially the interest paid on 
our loans, and non-cash items, which consisted substantially in 2009/10 of the non-cash 
charge calculated, in accordance with IAS 1 9, on our pension fund assets and liabilities.
As illustrated in the table below, cash interest payable actually reduced in the 
period, with the benefit of lower base rates only offset from November onwards by 
increased margins on our new facilities. The largest negative swing in the year was 
the increase in our net pension charge from £1.2m in 2008/09 to £5.4m in 2009/10 
principally as a result of lower notional returns on the pension fund assets based 
on their market value at 31 March 2009, which was significantly lower than at the 
comparable date in the prior year. Amortisation of fees on our new banking facilities 
also increased our net financing costs.
The combination of higher margins and fees on our new banking facilities, together 
with the increase in our non-cash pension charge, outweighed the benefit of lower 
underlying interest rates.
£m
2009/10
£m
2008/09
Cash interest expense (net) ( 11 .6) ( 14.5)
Arrangement fees amortisation (1.4) (0.8)
Pension financing item (net) (5.4) (1 .2)
Other (1.5) (1 .8)
(19.9) ( 18.3)
Financing costs, for the purpose of assessment of compliance with our banking 
covenants, are calculated on the basis of cash interest and exclude the non-cash items 
which made up approximately 40 per cent of our total net financing costs in 2009/10.
The average borrowing rate for the year on our core debt was 2.8 per cent. On the 
assumption that base rates remain at current levels in our new financial year we 
would expect this rate to increase to approximately 3.6 per cent as a consequence 
of the full year effect of our new banking facilities. We expect, however, that our 
non-cash pension charge will reduce in the same period as a result of a combination 
of the substantial increase in the market value of our pension fund assets and a 
reduction in corporate bond yields. The latter reduces the notional cost of servicing 
pension fund liabilities, although under IAS 19 it also increases the size of the liability.
Wincanton operates comfortably within the three  
 financial ratio covenants agreed with the Group’ s bankers.
PRE-TAX PROFIT
Underlying pre-tax profit of £34.7m represents a 16 per cent reduction on the 
£41.3m reported in the financial year to 31 March 2009.
T AXATION
The Group’s underlying rate of tax remains at 29.4 per cent (2009: 30.9 per cent), 
giving a charge of £10.0m. The rate largely reflects the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax of 28 per cent.
The overall rate of tax of 1 7 .2 per cent (2009: 30.0 per cent) reflects the non-recognition 
of the tax effect of the exceptional restructuring charge in Germany, offset by 
release of a provision following agreement of past tax issues.
The current year cash tax rate has reduced to 10.3 per cent (2009: 31.5 per cent),  
mainly as a result of the deductibility of the additional pension payments in the UK  
of approximately £ 12m.
The Group’s activities across the UK and Europe are subject to effective tax rates 
varying from 12.5 per cent to 38 per cent, but are most affected by the UK rate  
of 28 per cent. The Group’s overall rate of tax is expected to remain at around the 
current level in future years, and will reduce as unrecognised tax losses, of which 
a significant element relate to our German operations, are progressively utilised.
EXCEPTIONALS
We reported exceptional restructuring and other costs of £3.8m at the half year 
to 30 September 2009, consisting of the final integration costs of £0.7m in respect 
of a company acquired in November 2008, and the £3.1m incurred in respect of the 
costs of closure of our shared user home delivery network. 
Two further reorganisation and restructuring projects were implemented in the 
second half. A reorganisation of the senior management teams in our Retail and 
Manufacturing business units in the UK & Ireland gave rise to a charge of £1.8m. 
We also announced at the half year, and have now successfully executed, a major 
restructuring of our German road activities. A £14.9m charge was incurred in the 
second half in relation to this major programme.
The total exceptional charge in the year amounted to £20.5m. We anticipate a net 
exceptional profit in the new financial year on the basis of two asset disposals 
currently being considered.
We currently expect no further net charges in respect of either recession-led 
restructuring in the UK & Ireland or further strategic re-organisation programmes  
in Mainland Europe.
MAINLAND EUROPE REVENUE
 Germany
 Western Europe
 Central & Eastern Europe
23%
9%
68%
GERMANY REVENUE
 Road
 Intermodal
 Contract logistics
41%
23%
36% Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   19
MINORITY INTEREST, ASSOCIATES, EARNINGS AND DIv IDEND
The Group has a small number of activities in its Mainland European operations with 
a third party minority shareholding, principally Rhinecontainer BV in which there is  
a 25.8 per cent minority stake. The profits attributable to these minorities increased 
slightly in the year, from £0.5m to £0.7m.
The Group holds a 20 per cent interest in a UK chilled consolidation business 
following the merger in March 2009 of its chilled consolidation activities with those 
of a competitor. We have representation on the Board, agreed dividend distribution 
rights and pre-emption rights in respect of any sale of the business. In these 
circumstances we believe it to be appropriate to report our share of the profit from 
this venture as part of our underlying operating profit, and therefore include it 
within the results reported above for our UK & Ireland operations.
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 15.4 per cent lower, at 20.9p per 
share, compared to last year’s 24.7p per share.
It is proposed to maintain the full-year dividend at 14.91p. Given the 4.83p per share 
distributed at the half year, the final dividend would be 10.08p on this basis. 
Full-year dividend maintained at 1 4.91 p.
The dividend cover at this proposed level of full year dividend would reduce slightly 
from last year’s 1.66 times to 1.40 times. Given the profit and cash flow resilience of 
the Group through the recession, the cash-generative nature of the Group’s 
business model and its recovery and growth prospects, the Board nonetheless feels 
that it is appropriate to maintain the full-year dividend.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure in the year totalled £32.8m, equivalent to approximately  
85 per cent of depreciation. This marks a return to more normal levels of 
expenditure following a number of years of higher investment, primarily in  
our new sectors and services.
£3.4m and £ 11.4m of this year’s spend related to expansion and replacement capital, 
respectively, in our mainstream UK & Ireland activities. Major projects included crane 
replacement in the automated warehouse run for GSK and new tankers for the Total 
lubricants operation. Some £8.8m was invested in further expansion of our new 
sectors and services, particularly in respect of significant new capacity for our 
records management activities and in systems for the home delivery contract for 
M&S. Expansion and replacement capital in our Mainland European activities 
accounted for £5.7m and £3.5m respectively. The principal investment projects in 
Mainland Europe were specialist warehouse fit-outs for two contract gains in France, 
with Millipore and Total.
Our investment programme in our new sectors and services is now substantially 
complete, with further spend in our new financial year only in relation to the 
capacity expansion in our foodservice and records management businesses.  
We are, however, over the next two years, investing in a major programme  
to renew and enhance our operational and back office support systems.  
This is likely to result in capital expenditure at, or a little above, depreciation.
Thereafter, we expect to return to a more strongly cash-generative profile, 
with capital expenditure well within deprecation.
LEASING
Operating leases represent a key element in the funding of the Group’s growth,  
and new vehicle leasing commitments of £20.4m were entered into in the year. 
The principal new commitments entered into included new vehicles for Lafarge 
and M&S and replacements for our Total fuels and Musgrave operations. 
For the purposes of investment appraisal a memorandum value is generally 
attributed to leased assets.
More than half of these commitments are underwritten by the new contracts also 
entered into with customers, generally on a back-to-back basis.
Our banking agreements recognise that a substantial element of our leasing 
commitments are legally underwritten by our customers and, on this basis, allow us 
to deduct such leasing commitments from the calculation of fixed charge cover for 
covenant purposes. 
NET DEBT
Year-end net debt, at £151.9m, was £24.5m lower than the £176.4m reported  
at 31 March 2009. The reduction reflects a continuing focus on cash flow and 
balance sheet management.
FINANCING AND COv ENANTS
The Group concluded an agreement with its relationship banks in November  
2009 to expand and extend its borrowing facilities for a further three-year period 
until November 2012. A decision was taken at the same time to draw down a further 
tranche of our US private placement programme, with a seven-year maturity.  
£270m has been committed to the Group under the banking facilities, and $35m, 
subsequently swapped back into sterling, under the private placement programme.
Taking into account the existing balance of the drawn placement of $150m plus 
some small bilateral lines, the committed funding available to the Group totals 
approximately £405m. In addition the Group has available up to a further £47m 
of uncommitted money market and overdraft facilities.
Wincanton takes a prudent view of what constitutes an appropriate level of 
headroom in terms of committed facilities and no reliance is placed on uncommitted 
lines to fund the Group’s peak working capital requirements. £ 176m of our 
committed facilities were undrawn at 31 March 2010.
As previously noted, extremely difficult conditions in credit markets led to higher 
arrangement fees and margins under our new facilities.
The Group maintains a variety of swap and cap instruments to give an appropriate 
level of protection of its interest rate position. During the year to 31 March 2010 it 
had £15m of such arrangements in place, subsequently increased in April 2010 to 
cover some £70m of its borrowings for up to five years. 
Wincanton operates comfortably within the three financial ratio covenants agreed 
with the Group’s bankers. These ratios, calculated as defined in the loan agreement, 
and the Group’s position at 31 March 2010 relative to these, are summarised in the 
table below:
Covenant At 31 March 2010
Adjusted net debt : EBITDA <3.0 : 1 2.3 : 1
Adjusted net interest : EBITDA >3.5 : 1 7 .3 : 1
Fixed charge cover > 1.4 : 1 1.7 : 1
The Group operates sterling and euro ‘pools’ such that whenever possible surplus 
cash is netted against overdrafts and drawn debt, subject to agreed minimum 
levels, to maximise the efficiency of short-term liquidity. No speculative trading is 
authorised and all financial trades are designed to meet the operational needs of 
the business. 20   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
PENSIONS
The Group’s total pension deficit, calculated on an IAS 19 basis, was £174.1m, 
or £132.0m net of deferred tax, at 31 March 2010 of which the principal Scheme 
amounted to £135.9m (£97 .8m net).
Agreement was reached with the trustees of the principal Scheme, at the time 
of the last actuarial valuation in March 2008, to address the deficit over a recovery 
period of 14 years. Additional annual cash payments of £12m, uplifted annually 
for inflation, are being made to the Scheme on this basis.
Given that deficit recovery payments are deductible for tax purposes, the net 
incremental cash cost to the Group reduces to approximately £8.6m per annum.
New investment advisers have been appointed by the trustees who are reviewing 
both the asset allocation profile of the Scheme and opportunities to limit the 
interest and inflation rate risks within our liabilities.
We are confident that Wincanton has the financial strength to resolve the issue of 
the pension fund deficit prudently and progressively over time without constraining 
its ability to fund either the Group’s growth or its policy of dividend distribution to 
shareholders.
How we performed
RISKS
The Group has a well developed structure and set of processes for identifying and mitigating the key business risks it faces. These are described in detail in the Corporate 
governance statement on page 32 and the key risks are summarised in the table below.
Type of risk Summary Mitigation
Commercial The sourcing of new contacts, at an appropriate financial 
return, for an acceptable level of risk.
Early-stage review of all new business opportunities and senior 
level sign-off of concept.
All contracts require operational, commercial and legal sign-off 
against detailed check-lists.
Acceptable parameters for contract negotiations clearly 
documented.
Operational Failure to meet key performance indicators in contracts  
and not meet demanding performance requirements  
of customers.
Pre-contract due diligence verifies customer requirements  
and solution design.
Wincanton-developed project management disciplines drive 
implementation phase. 
All contracts subject to operational and financial review.
Human Resource The recruitment, motivation and retention of employees  
of the high quality required to meet the demands of both  
our current business and our future growth.
Competitive remuneration packages, including appropriate 
levels of performance incentivisation.
Extensive programme of in-house and external training 
opportunities.
Employee engagement and development programmes 
including regular questionnaires, feedback sessions and  
annual personal development reviews.
Strategic The identification of new areas of opportunity for growth to 
enable the Group to build on its strong track record of profit 
growth and cash flow generation.
‘Top down’ strategy process reviews market opportunities and 
‘bottom up’ customer account planning processes generates 
customer and sector-specific opportunities.
Progress against strategic targets and delivery of customer 
initiatives forms part of regular business unit review.
Group strategy subject to review, analysis, challenge  
and then approval by the Board. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   21
ACTIvEL y WORKING TOWARDS A  
LOWER CARBON FUTURE
Working responsibly
Corporate responsibility is governed through the Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE) committee, with its chairman Nigel Sullivan, Group Human Resources Director, 
taking responsibility for social, ethical, safety and environmental issues and initiatives 
for Wincanton. Contributions from SHE committees in Poland, France and Germany 
ensure that policies and initiatives are applied consistently across the Group.
PEOPLE
We recognise that our people make a positive difference to the way we do business 
and the way we are perceived by our customers. Our approach, therefore, is not just 
to focus on their development, but also to engage colleagues in the goals of the 
business through inclusive communication programmes and formal recognition of 
the right behaviours. We measure engagement through our Group-wide survey, 
One Voice, which was launched in 2008 and followed up with action plans at every 
site or functional department to drive positive change. In early 2010 we finalised the 
scope of our second One Voice survey and hope to demonstrate clear progress in 
the results.
Employee engagement 
In early 2009, we launched a set of six behavioural values to provide a framework  
of reference across the business for our culture. IMPACT is an acronym for integrity, 
mutual trust, passion, accountability, commitment and teamwork. To build on the 
launch, we held workshops for junior and middle managers to explore how 
management behaviour has a direct impact on employee engagement, which in 
turn contributes to a stronger, more successful business and brand. Over 300 
colleagues attended and were taken through ‘the Wincanton journey’ followed by 
interactive workshops on employee communication, reward and recognition and 
leadership behaviour. Our official reward and recognition voucher scheme ‘I made 
an IMPACT’ was also launched at these roadshows. The scheme is supported by an 
ongoing communication programme of success stories via the intranet and 
company magazines.
In early 2009, we launched a set of six behavioural  
 values to provide a framework of reference across  
 the business for our culture. 
Training and development
Our Driving Development programme continues to gain industry-wide recognition. 
Wincanton is now an approved provider of the Driver Certificate of Professional 
Competence (DCPC), and we deliver this training at well over 100 in-house training 
centres across the UK. Since the DCPC legislation came into force in September 
2009, we have provided training for over 2,300 drivers, which is an equivalent of over 
16,000 hours of DCPC training. Running in parallel to this, we were proud to have 
awarded our 3,000th driver National Vocational Qualification (NVQ2/3 Driving 
Goods Vehicles), which is being delivered as part of a rolling programme across our 
transport sites. Both the DCPC and NVQ programmes augment and enhance our 
long-established driver training programme, designed to equip drivers with the 
necessary skills to safely and efficiently operate goods vehicles, across a plethora of 
load types, truck designs, and delivery venues. 
The Learning and Development Framework, launched in March 2009 with the 
objective of creating greater consistency of skills and a career progression path in 
our warehouses, has now been introduced in 44 sites. A further 15 sites have started 
offering warehouse NVQs, bringing the UK total to 1,1 16 warehouse employees with 
an NVQ qualification. 
To celebrate our success in driver and warehouse operational excellence, our annual 
driver and forklift driver of the year competition continues to grow. In 2009/10 the 
competition categories attracted 1,663 and 201 competitors respectively.
We are proud to have awarded our 3,000th driver NVQ. 
Our corporate responsibility programme 
focuses on developing our people, creating  
a culture of workplace safety, promoting 
environmental sustainability and making 
a positive impact on our communities.”
Nigel Sullivan
Group Human Resources Director
1,663 contestants entered  
Driver of the year 2009 22   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport collaboration
With our Chief Executive, Graeme McFaull appointed as president of the Chartered 
Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) in May 2009, we have forged closer links 
with the industry body on both training and fundraising activities. Wincanton and 
the CILT have developed the Pathway programme to improve the technical skills 
and competence of personnel at all levels within Wincanton. The existing graduate 
development scheme and other internal development programmes will gain 
accreditation to the CILT standard and become externally recognised as a 
professional development pathway. 
Our colleagues have also provided an injection of enthusiasm and fundraising for 
the CILT’s new charitable initiative, ASPIRE, which will provide opportunities for 
individuals to improve their skills and knowledge through training and development 
bursaries. An ASPIRE parcel was sponsored on a journey through many Wincanton 
sites. On reaching each destination, the parcel was accompanied by a presentation 
on ASPIRE and the CILT to encourage individual donations and generate a greater 
level of awareness of the Institute and its activities. 
Professional accreditation
Following the accreditation of the Group Procurement team to the Chartered 
Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) ‘Certification Excellence in Purchasing 
Policies and Procedures’ in early 2009, Group Procurement Director Jane Scadding 
went on to win the CIPS purchasing and supply professional of the year in September 
2009. This top award recognised her for implementing robust processes that reduce 
business risk and achieve real value. The introduction of her team to the formal CIPS 
training programme has also improved professional standards and quality.
hEALT h AND SAFETY
We have continued to perform at the forefront of our industry in health and safety, 
with lost time accidents falling in the UK & Ireland for the 10th consecutive year 
representing a 64 per cent reduction since inception. Wincanton is strategically 
committed to preventing all work-related injuries and illnesses, using the DuPont 
‘zero tolerance’ principle. To deliver this commitment we operate a common 
framework to bring together all aspects of our Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) 
approach, supported by a set of ‘Key Health and Safety Principles’ and our minimum 
safety standards. 
As well as carrying out regular audits and reporting monthly to the SHE committees, 
we are placing an increasing focus on awareness campaigns to drive long-term 
behavioural and cultural change. Through our Operational Excellence programme, 
sites are provided with our OpEx safety culture toolkit and go through a bi-annual 
self-assessment process to gauge progress. In order to keep health and safety front 
of mind, our warehouse employees receive monthly workplace briefings under the 
award-winning SHELA programme (SHE learning aid). Originally launched in the UK 
in 2007 , the programme was extended across Poland, France and Germany in 2009/10, 
and also introduced as a tool in the driver safety programme in the UK & Ireland.
We have continued to perform at the forefront of our  
 industry in health and safety, with lost time accidents  
 falling in the UK & Ireland for the 10th consecutive year.
In addition to their internal responsibilities, our SHE professionals seek to influence 
the industry-wide agenda on behalf of Wincanton through representation on a total 
of eight national and international Health & Safety committees. These include three 
working groups within the Health & Safety Executive, board membership of 
RoadSafe and the Chair of the Retail & Distribution Group of the Institute of 
Occupational Safety & Health in the UK. 
Award-winning performance
In 2009/10 Wincanton secured two prestigious awards from customers for Health 
and Safety excellence, recognising our first-class record and commitment to 
working in close partnership with customers to deliver industry-leading operations. 
In June 2009, Wincanton was named ‘Most Admired Carrier in the Africa, Pakistan, 
Europe (AEP) region’ by global brand Chevron, and became the first European 
supplier to win the award. We transport nearly three billion litres of fuel and travel 
around 15 million kilometres for Chevron annually under the contract. In August 
2009, Wincanton was presented with a health and safety award by Esso Small Trucks 
in the UK for operating without a single lost time accident for two years.
In 2009/10 Wincanton secured two prestigious awards  
 from customers for health and safety excellence.
Training and ongoing guidance
In order to attain minimum standards across the Group and ensure that our 
operational teams have the right skills, we operate a central SHE training 
programme. This operated at record levels in 2009/10, up by around 20 per cent on 
2008/09 to a total of 1,365 people. To raise the visibility of regional safety advisers 
and provide more contact time for site-based colleagues within operations and site 
Health & Safety, quarterly regional safety forums were introduced to discuss local 
and Group initiatives and provide the opportunity for ad hoc input to site issues.
Continuous improvement
We have achieved our objective of reducing the number of ‘bridge strikes’ in the  
UK during 2009/10 by 33 per cent following an awareness campaign and additional 
training within the Driving Development programme, which included improved 
delivery point assessment and driver cards. 
In addition, three UK & Ireland ‘hotspot’ sites experiencing higher than average 
accident rates were targeted over 2008 and 2009. As a consequence, the average 
accident rate has fallen by 45 per cent against 2007 .
Business continuity planning
The H1N1 influenza (swine flu) outbreak led to the rapid re-evaluation of existing 
contingency planning measures across the whole business. A web-hosted business 
continuity product, BCP4Me, was introduced across the Group in order to provide 
high level visibility of preparedness levels. An awareness campaign and regular 
status updates were circulated and briefed across the business. To protect 
employees and visitors to our sites, antiseptic hand wash stations were fitted across 
the business and individual desk packs were distributed. No business interruption or 
customer issues arose during the outbreak.
Working responsibly
Drivers
Significant  
environmental  
impacts
Our ambition  
and principles
Stakeholder  
and management  
priorities
KRAs 
Governance and  
management
Performance  
measurement
Energy use and  
climate change
Waste and recycling
Progressive 
product leadership
Annual targets 
Based on KRAs,  
objectives and performance
Operation 
Implemented,  
monitored and reviewed  
through group-wide  
environmental  
management system Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   23
ENv IRONMENT
Following the publication of our five-year Group Environmental Strategy in March 
2009, our activities in 2009/10 have focused on implementing a clear measurement 
framework and on prioritising initiatives to reduce our energy and fuel usage. 
The strategy document, which is published on our website, outlines our priorities 
and creates a framework for delivering progress against our objectives.  
It incorporates our policy statement and 10 key principles to provide guidance  
for employees, suppliers and customers on the way we work. Our impacts and 
initiatives are structured into five key results areas as follows, against which we are 
measuring progress:
•	Governance and management;
•	Performance measurement;
•	Energy use and climate change;
•	Waste and recycling; and
•	Progressive product leadership.
In April 2009, we introduced five environmental key  
 performance indicators so that we could actively track  
 carbon usage and measure improvements.
Measurement
Wincanton uses the Balanced Scorecard system to measure performance in a  
range of areas across its European operations. In April 2009, we introduced five 
environmental key performance indicators (KPIs) so that we could actively track 
carbon usage and measure improvements. These KPIs are usage of diesel per km, 
red diesel per km, gas usage per m
3
, water consumption and electricity usage  
per m
3
. The Group-wide measurement system not only provides sites with a 
benchmark against each other, but provides clear data against which they can set 
reduction targets. We have already seen our general managers embrace the system 
and create individual action plans. One such example is our contract with Comet, 
which has introduced a fuel efficiency improvement plan with the five sites 
competing weekly for the ‘yellow jersey’. The best site, vehicle and driver are 
published weekly and this engagement programme has resulted in fuel 
performance increases of 7 per cent, saving 525 tonnes of CO2 per annum.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme
Our participation in the UK Government’s CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, effective 
from 1 April 2010, will provide an additional focus for reducing our CO2 emissions. 
This mandatory carbon trading scheme for CO2 emissions applies in the UK only and 
requires businesses to measure energy usage through fixed point sources, report to 
government on that usage and pay for the emissions created. 
To meet our responsibilities, Wincanton will purchase carbon allowances in advance, 
based on our target usage for the year. This cost will then be rebated through a 
‘recycling payment’ based on actual usage and our performance within the 
Scheme’s league table. 
During 2009/10, our focus has been on understanding the impact of forthcoming 
legislation and preparing our strategy for incorporating the Scheme’s parameters 
into our existing business processes. In August 2009 we engaged environmental 
consultants SKM Enviros to complete a gap analysis, assess our current position and 
formulate an improvement plan. We have also completed an upgrade programme 
to ensure that all sites are fitted with half-hourly meters specified within the 
legislation as an ‘early action’ metric to influence position in the league table. 
This has been supported by an internal communication and briefing plan for 
our managers and operational teams on how we will manage the CRC Energy 
Efficiency Scheme.
Renewable energy
In line with our objective to reduce our carbon footprint, we have entered into  
an agreement with our supplier, Scottish and Southern Energy, to source  
100 per cent of the electricity we consume in the UK from renewable sources, 
including hydroelectricity and wind power. This will lead to savings of around 31,000 
tonnes of CO2 per year based on our 2009 consumption levels.
Responsible transport
As a major fleet operator covering over 1.2 billion kilometres per year for customers 
across Europe, we have embraced the environmental imperative and launched 
our ‘2020 Vision: delivering responsible transport’ campaign in January 2010. 
The campaign unites the carbon reduction initiatives in our transport operations 
under a common theme, highlighting how we are seeking to deliver a more 
sustainable future for the supply chain. Our broad-ranging initiatives include vehicle 
engineering for greater fuel efficiency, rail and barge solutions, promoting customer 
collaboration and focusing on driver training. We have taken over 10 million miles 
off the roads for customers during 2009 by working with them to identify 
opportunities and through leveraging our experience and scale. 
We took over 10 million miles off the roads for  
 customers during 2009.
Road to rail: Building on our successful intermodal operations in Mainland Europe, 
we are now actively seeking to move volumes from road to rail in the UK by working 
with customers to identify opportunities and forming partnerships with rail 
operators. An example of this is our work with Britvic, where we introduced a daily 
rail route from the Midlands to Scotland, moving an average of 1 million bottles of 
product each day and taking 50 lorries off the roads. Product from factories across 
the UK is consolidated at the Daventry rail depot and transported by rail to 
Grangemouth and Mossend through a partnership with Malcolms Logistics.  
This model is now also operating for other customers.
100 per cent of our electricity in the UK 
will come from renewable sources
Our carbon reduction initiatives  
in transport are grouped into a 
promotional campaign 24   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Working responsibly
vehicle design: Wincanton has been working with the Department for Transport’s 
consultants regarding the introduction of longer vehicles into the UK, as we believe 
this is a logical and easy way to reduce carbon use and increase productivity. 
Research within our fleet has indicated that 63 per cent of our contracts could utilise 
a longer load platform without exceeding the 44 tonne gross vehicle limit. We have 
designed a new articulated semi-trailer that increases the load length by 14 per cent 
within current weight limits, providing up to four pallets of additional floor space. 
The solution is also designed to be flexible and compatible with existing 
infrastructure. We are also working on intermodal options for road/rail containers 
with a nominal length of 15.5 metres, designed to interface with railcars widely used 
by rail freight companies. One customer predicts that the extra floor space would 
allow them to reduce container truck journeys by 30,000 per annum, which equates 
to 964,000 miles, over 450,000 litres of fuel and 1,200 tonnes of CO2.
We have also upgraded our existing fleet on a number of contracts to improve fuel 
efficiency and maximise capacity. In July 2009, Wincanton and Lafarge worked 
together to launch a brand new fleet of 25 state-of-the-art teardrop trailers, which 
seek to reduce fuel consumption by 8 per cent through the aerodynamic design as 
well as carrying up to 16 per cent more cargo. 
The white fleet collaborative model has shown that it  
 is possible to reduce collective fleet, save costs, improve  
 vehicle utilisation and cut road miles.
Collaborative initiatives: Wincanton’s £1m investment in a new fleet of lighter tractor 
units and trailers for HJ Heinz and adidas has improved load capacity and enabled its 
customers to improve their delivery service. The regional planning centre in Wigan 
draws on the wider Wincanton shared user fleet to maximise load fill and manage 
volume fluctuations. For adidas, it has also re-routed around 20 per cent of volume 
directly from the port to the customer, eliminating a leg in the supply chain. During 
2009, the tried and tested shared user fleet and centralised planning model used by 
Wincanton’s manufacturing customers was piloted in six large retail operations in the 
North West. The ‘white fleet’ collaborative model has shown that it is possible to 
reduce collective fleet, save costs, improve vehicle utilisation and cut road miles.  
The white fleet is supported by Isotrak 3iS technology which provides real-time 
visibility and tracking, enabling more efficient load planning.
COMMUNITY 
Wincanton aims to create a positive impact on the communities in which it operates 
through direct engagement at a local level. Across the Group, our site teams regularly 
support local charities, community projects and schools through fundraising and 
also by lending the support of colleagues. As well as organising our own activities, 
we also collaborate with our customers on their chosen charitable initiatives to 
cement relationships and motivate teams to work together for good causes. At Group 
level, we support Transaid, a charity working primarily in Africa to reduce poverty and 
improve quality of life through providing better access to basic services such as health, 
education and economic opportunities. Support is through corporate sponsorship, 
but also direct involvement to offer our skills where they are most needed.
Transaid partnership
At the Industrial Training Centre in Lusaka, Zambia, representatives from our  
health and safety team completed a second audit of the centre in August against 
Wincanton minimum standards, recording an improvement of 24 per cent against 
the November 2008 visit. The centre aims to reduce accident rates on the roads in 
Zambia by bridging the gap in professional driving standards and becoming a 
centre of excellence in the region. At the helm of the project, Wincanton change 
management professional, Caroline Barber, completed her 18-month secondment 
as Country Programme Manager in April 2010 and has since been recognised as 
‘Rising Star of the Year’ for her achievements in the 2010 MAN Everywoman 
Transport Awards.
Community initiatives
Since becoming a member of Business in the Community in 2008, we have identified 
opportunities in several UK regions to participate in community projects. One 
example is a collaborative exercise between Wincanton, Heinz and adidas to support 
Liverpool’s Talent Week, which targeted students approaching school leaving age 
with a view to focusing them on their individual talents and how these could be 
applied to future careers. The Wincanton team attended Holly Lodge Girls School, 
Liverpool to facilitate career planning sessions using behaviour profiling/analysis 
techniques and then teamed up with the students on a converted trailer at the 
exhibition in the Liverpool One shopping complex to promote their achievements.
In Germany, our head office in Mannheim is now in its sixth year of providing 
welcome boxes to new students joining the University of Mannheim. This involves 
distributing over 30,000 boxes to the campus, containing city maps, contact 
addresses and giveaways from commercial organisations in the region. The initiative 
is unique in Germany and has won several awards.
The community programme at our Sainsbury’s site in Sherburn is typical of 
initiatives at operations across the Group. We have identified a sustainable solution 
for waste by supplying local charities such as Fareshare in Leeds and Sunderland 
with excess food stocks, the PDSA with damaged packs of pet food and local 
hospices with flowers. We have also engaged with local primary schools on a 
wildlife area project and after-school cookery classes promoting healthy eating. 
In France, Wincanton organised a Christmas card competition for the third 
consecutive year for employees’ children and donated €10 for each entry to the 
Emmaus charity for the underprivileged, raising a total of €1,500.
Employees on the Wincanton GSK contract in the UK collected supplies to go to 
Romania for GSK’s group charity, the Smiles Foundation. They worked with their 
colleagues in the Netherlands and Germany to organise a truly sustainable 
intermodal solution using road and barge, to ensure that the container arrived 
in time in Romania. 
In Poland, we co-hosted the inaugural academic logistics conference for over 
100 university students from institutions across the country at the Karol Adamiecki 
University, Katowice in December. The event combined academic content with a 
team-based competition, which challenged students to define and present their 
vision for ‘Polish Logistics in the Year 2025’. 
Wincanton 
Bâtiment Le Dauphin
80 rue Condorcet
38090 Vaulx-Milieu
Tél : +33 (0)4 74 94 60 20
Fax : +33 (0)4 74 94 60 15
Christmas card competition by French 
employees’ children
Exhibition to support Liverpool’s  
Talent Week Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   25
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Governance
DAv ID EDMONDS cbe Chairman
David became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in December 2004, Deputy 
Chairman in November 2007 and Chairman in July 2008. He is Chairman of the Legal 
Services Board and the Chairman of NHS Shared Business Services. He is a Board 
member of the Olympic Park Legacy Company, and a non-executive Director of 
Hammerson PLC and William Hill PLC. He was previously Chairman of the Board of 
NHS Direct and a Board member of the Legal Services Commission and several 
other organisations. Prior to 2003, he held a series of executive posts in government 
departments and in the NatWest Group.
GRAEME MCFAULL
Chief Executive
Graeme joined Wincanton in 1994 as Finance Director of the Retail Division 
following finance roles with Geest, Cargill and Pepsico. He has held several 
Managing Director roles within Wincanton since 1999, latterly running the UK 
& Ireland business. He became Chief Executive in December 2005. Graeme is a 
Fellow and former President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport 
and a non-executive Director of Wates Group Limited.
GERARD CONNELL
Group Finance Director
Gerard trained with Price Waterhouse and then worked in the City, becoming 
a Managing Director of Bankers Trust and a Regional Director of Hill Samuel.  
He joined Wincanton in September 2000 in order to prepare the Company for 
demerger. He is also the Senior Independent non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at Pennon Group Plc.
NIGEL SULLIv AN
Group Human Resources Director
Nigel joined Wincanton as Group Human Resources Director in November 2002 
from Marconi plc and was appointed to the Board in January 2004. Prior to that 
Nigel held a number of human resources positions with Nortel Networks and 
Rover Group.
NEIL ENGLAND
Senior Independent non-executive Director
Neil became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in June 2008 and Senior 
Independent non-executive Director in October 2009. He is currently the Chairman 
of The Eastern European Trust PLC and of Silverstone Holdings Limited. He is also a 
non-executive Director of ITE Group plc. Neil was previously a Director of Gallaher 
Group Plc and prior to that Vice-President of Mars Inc.
JONSON COX
Non-executive Director
Jonson became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in October 2005. Until 
March 2010, he was Group Chief Executive of Anglian Water Group plc. Former 
positions include Chief Executive of Valpak Limited, a business services company, 
Chief Operating Officer of Railtrack Group PLC and Managing Director  
of Kelda Group plc (formerly Yorkshire Water plc). His early career was with Royal 
Dutch Shell.
DR WALTER hASSELKUS
Non-executive Director
Walter became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in January 2004. In May 2006 
he was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Wincanton GmbH and 
in July 2007 he was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Wincanton 
GmbH. He is a non-executive Director of DAF Trucks NV, Chairman of the 
Supervisory Boards of Ehlebracht AG and InTiCa Systems AG and Supervisory  
Board Member of W.E.T. AG. From 1996 to 1998 he was a member of the Board of 
Management of BMW AG and Chairman and CEO of Rover Group.
PAUL vENABLES
Non-executive Director
Paul became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in September 2009. 
A Chartered Accountant, he is currently Group Finance Director of Hays plc, having 
joined from DHL Logistics, a division of Deutsche Post World Net. Prior to the 
acquisition of Exel plc by Deutsche Post in December 2006, he was Deputy Group 
Finance Director, a member of the executive board of Exel plc and Chairman of their 
Acquisitions and Projects Review Board. During 13 years with Exel he held a number 
of senior finance and operational roles, including Finance Director of Exel’s European 
and Global operations.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
David Edmonds (Chairman), Jonson Cox, Neil England, Walter Hasselkus, 
Graeme McFaull, Paul Venables
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Neil England (Chairman), Jonson Cox, David Edmonds, Walter Hasselkus, 
Paul Venables
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Jonson Cox (Chairman), Neil England, Walter Hasselkus, Paul Venables 26   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs ’ RepoRt
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for 
the year ended 31 March 2010.
Princi Pal activities Wincanton (the Group) is a contract logistics services business which designs, 
implements and operates a range of supply chain management solutions.
r esults and d ividends A review of the activities of the Group during the financial year, analyses of revenue 
and profit and an indication of likely future developments are presented on pages 
5 to 8, and pages 16 to 24 all of which are incorporated into this Directors’ report by 
reference. The Group profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year 
amounted to £1.8m. An interim dividend of 4.83p per share was paid on 5 January 
2010. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
to be held at 1 1:30am on Wednesday, 21 July 2010 at the offices of Buchanan 
Communications, 45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE, a final dividend of 10.08p  
per share will be paid on 6 August 2010 to those shareholders on the register  
of members of Wincanton plc (the Company) on 9 July 2010. Under the 
requirements of Adopted IFRS this dividend is not provided until declared and 
therefore the total profit for the year of £2.5m, including £0.7m relating to minority 
interests, has been transferred to reserves.
Policy and Practice on Payment of creditors The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with regard to payments to 
suppliers. It agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding 
purchase contracts for the supply of goods and services. Its suppliers are, in that  
way, made aware of these terms. The Group seeks to abide by these payment  
terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in 
accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At the year end there were 56 days (2009: 52 days) purchases in the Group’s trade 
payables.
a nnual General m eetin G
At the 2010 AGM, the Directors will propose the following items as special business: 
to approve the making of certain payments that may be classified as donations to 
political parties; to allow the Directors to allot shares; to seek to renew the authority  
to disapply shareholders’ pre-emption rights in certain circumstances; to approve 
the Company’s power to buy back a proportion of its share capital; to adopt new 
Articles of Association primarily to take account of the coming into force of the 
Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009; to approve general meetings 
other than AGMs to be called on not less than 14 clear days notice; and to renew 
and amend the rules of the Wincanton Executive Share Option and the Wincanton 
Sharesave Schemes to bring them in line with current legislation.
s ubstantial interests At the date of this report, the Company has been notified of the following major 
shareholdings, which are stated as at the date of notification to the Company.
Shareholder Type of holding
Number of 
shares held Per cent
Legal and General Group plc Direct 4,829,448 3.97
Standard Life Investments
Direct and 
Indirect 1 0,939,0 15 9.01
Aberforth Partners LLP Indirect 5,991,205 4.94
Computershare Trustees (C.I.) Limited as  
 Trustee of the Wincanton plc  
 Employee Share Trust (the Trust) Indirect 6,070,647 5.00
F&C Asset Management plc Indirect 6,045, 153 5.03
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Indirect 6,295,393 5. 19
Rathbone Brothers Plc Indirect 9 ,058, 170 7.54
Newton Investment Management Limited Indirect 9,742,3 1 0 8.03
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares, except to 
meet its obligations to employees under the Share Incentive Plan. The Trust, in its 
capacity as trustee, purchased a total of 1,193,959 shares at an average price, 
excluding costs, of £1.70 per share. These shares were purchased to enable the Trust 
to hedge against future exercises of share options. As at 31 March 2010, the Trust, in 
its capacity as trustee, held 7 ,109,385 (2009: 6,105,647) shares representing 5.86 per 
cent of the issued share capital of the Company. 
s hare ca Pital and reserves Details of the authorised and issued share capital and reserves of the Company are 
shown in note 6 to the Company’s financial statements on page 78. The share 
capital of the Company is made up of 121,383,977 ordinary shares of 10p as at the 
date of this report. The shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Other than 
certain of those shares held in Trust in accordance with Employee Share Schemes, 
and the provisions contained in the Articles of Association of the Company, all 
shares rank pari passu with each other.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights.
directors
The names and biographies of the Directors who were serving at 31 March 2010 are 
shown on page 25. Details of corporate governance policy are set out on pages 30 
to 32. Directors’ beneficial interests in the Company’s share capital as at 31 March 
2010 and the date of this report are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 33 to 42. At the AGM, the Company will seek the re-election as Directors 
of Dr W Hasselkus and G McFaull who are resigning under the rotation provisions 
of the Articles of Association of the Company. The Directors support their re-election. 
At the 2009 AGM, P G Cox resigned as a non-executive Director. To maintain the 
required balance and independence on the Board, a further non-executive Director, 
P Venables, was appointed on 2 September 2009. The Company will seek his 
election at the AGM in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company. 
The Directors support his election.
Governance Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   27
e xecutive b oard In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Board consists of the 
Chief Operating Officer, Group Development Director and Managing Directors 
from Mainland Europe and the UK & Ireland.
The Executive Board meets monthly and is responsible for the day-to-day running 
of the business, carrying out the agreed strategy and implementing specific Board 
decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
emP loyees The Group uses a number of ways to provide employees with information on 
matters of interest to them. These include a report to employees dealing with 
Group and segmental results, an intranet, in-house newsletters and briefing and 
consultative meetings.
In December 2005, a European Works Council (EWC) was set up with the aim of 
bringing together employee representatives from across Europe, so that they can 
be informed and consulted by management on the Group’s plans and performance. 
The EWC met three times in the year (2009: three). Employee representatives are also 
able to meet their colleagues from other countries, exchanging information about 
the Group and working conditions across Europe.
In February 2008, the Group launched its first employee survey, ‘One Voice’, inviting 
employees to have their say on many aspects of their working environment, 
including their understanding of business goals, communication processes, health 
and safety, management and working for Wincanton. The results of the survey 
were launched in June 2008, and an action-planning programme focusing on 
Group-wide and country specific topics was established. The survey will be 
repeated in the year ending 31 March 201 1 and the results of that survey will give 
Wincanton an indication as to how successful the action-planning programme 
was and it will form the basis of next year’s planning activity.
The Group has established a variety of share schemes to align the interests of 
employees with those of shareholders and to support Wincanton in achieving its 
business objectives.
Wincanton is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in employment which 
requires the Group to:
•	Select, recruit, develop and promote the very best people basing its judgement 
solely on suitability for the job;
•	Ensure that all applicants and employees receive fair and equal treatment 
irrespective of sex, marital status, age, nationality, colour, race, ethnicity, national 
origin, disability or gender reassignment;
•	Encourage diversity in its workforce, reflecting, where practicable, the diversity of 
the working population;
•	Maintain a working environment free from sexual and racial harassment and 
intimidation; and
•	Ensure that all employment conditions and job requirements reflect its 
commitment to equal opportunities.
Where people become disabled during the course of their employment, every 
practical effort is made to retain their services, make adjustments and to provide 
retraining if necessary. All employees are eligible for appropriate training, career 
development and promotion and disabled people are not treated any differently.
Political and charitable contributions In accordance with its policy, the Group made no political contributions during the 
year (2009: £nil). Donations to charities amounted to £49,000 (2009: £93,000).
Wincanton P lc’s a rticles of a ssociation 
The Company’s Articles of Association (Articles) may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. At the 2010 AGM a special 
resolution will be put to shareholders proposing the adoption of a new set of 
Articles to take account of the coming into force of the Companies (Shareholders’ 
Rights) Regulations 2009.
The Articles of the Company as at 31 March 2010 contain, amongst others, the 
following provisions. 
Voting rights
Subject to the restrictions set out below, on a show of hands every shareholder 
present in person and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a 
shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote and on a poll every 
shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote per share held.
Restrictions on voting
If any shareholder, or any person appearing to be interested in the shares held by 
that shareholder, has been duly served with a notice under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006, and is in default for a period of 14 days in supplying to the 
Company the information thereby required, then that shareholder or any transferee 
to whom any such shares are transferred shall not be entitled to attend or vote 
either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting. Where the shares represent 
0.25 per cent or more of the issued share capital of the Company, the Directors may 
in their absolute discretion retain any dividend which would otherwise be payable 
in respect of those shares and/or ensure that no transfer of those shares shall be 
registered unless the transfer is approved.
Variation of share capital and rights
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase its share capital; consolidate and 
divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount than its existing 
shares; subdivide all or any of its share capital into shares of a smaller amount than 
that fixed by the Articles (subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts); or cancel 
any shares which have not been taken or agreed to be taken and diminish the 
amount of its share capital.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may by special 
resolution reduce its share capital or any capital redemption reserve, share premium 
account or other undistributable reserve in any way.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any 
shares or class of shares for the time being issued, any share in the Company may  
be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such 
restrictions, whether as regards dividend, return of capital, voting or otherwise, as 
the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine and subject 
to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Company may issue any shares 
which are, or at the option of the Company or the holder are liable, to be redeemed.
Buying back shares
Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and 
the Listing Rules, the Company may purchase its own shares of any class.
Directors’ power to allot
The Directors may, subject to the provisions of any legislation dealing with authority, 
pre-emption rights and other matters, and of any resolution of the Company in 
general meeting passed pursuant thereto, deal with shares which have not been 
issued. Directors may allot shares, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of, shares 
to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
Dividends and other distributions
The Company’s shareholders may declare dividends by passing an ordinary 
resolution. No such dividend may, however, exceed the amount recommended by 
the Directors. Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date such 
dividend was declared shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company. 28   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs ’ RepoRt
Governance
Distribution of assets on winding-up
If the Company is wound-up, the liquidator may, with the authority of an ordinary 
resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or 
any part of the assets of the Company and may determine how such division shall 
be carried out as between shareholders or different classes of shareholders. For this 
purpose, the liquidator may set such value as the liquidator considers fair upon  
any property.
Transfer of shares
Any shareholder may transfer some or all of the shareholder’s shares to another 
person. The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the 
holder until the name of the person to whom the share is being transferred is 
entered onto the register of members in respect of such shares. Directors may in 
their absolute discretion, and without giving any reason therefore, refuse to register 
any transfer of such shares which are not fully paid shares provided that such 
discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares 
of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Directors of the Company
Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, there must be at least two 
Directors but not more than 20. The Directors shall determine the ordinary fees  
of the Directors and the aggregate amount shall not exceed £500,000 per annum  
or such higher amount as the shareholders may from time to time determine by 
ordinary resolution. Any provision of the Statutes, which would have the effect of 
rendering any person ineligible for appointment or election as a Director or liable 
to vacate office as a Director on account of having reached a specified age, has 
been disapplied. Directors may be appointed and removed by ordinary resolution 
(with special notice in the case of removal). 
Authorisation of Directors’ interests
For the purposes of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have the 
power to authorise any matter which would or might otherwise constitute or give 
rise to a breach of the duty of a Director under that Section to avoid a situation in 
which the Director has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Directors’ interests and voting
A Director cannot cast a vote on any contract, transaction or arrangement, or any 
other proposal, in which the Director has an interest. A Director will not be counted 
in the quorum at a meeting of the Directors in relation to any resolution on which 
the Director is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers
So far as legislation allows, the Directors may exercise all of the Company’s powers 
to borrow money; to mortgage or charge all or any of the Company’s undertakings, 
property, and uncalled capital; to issue debentures and other securities; and to give 
security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of 
the Company or of any third party.
Indemnity and insurance of officers
So far as relevant legislation allows, every Director and former Director, Company 
Secretary and other Officer of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings shall be 
entitled to be indemnified by the Company.
Untraced shareholders
The Company is entitled to sell, at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time 
of the sale, shares of a member provided that during the 12 years prior to the date of 
the publication of advertisements in both a national newspaper and a newspaper 
circulated in the area of the last known address of the member giving notice of its 
intention to sell the said shares, at least three dividends in respect of the shares have 
become payable and no dividend in respect of those shares has been claimed.
r esearch and develo Pment During the year the Group was active in the development of new products and 
supply chain services to support current and future customer requirements.
Goin G concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue 
operating for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, these financial statements have 
been prepared on a going concern basis. For further information see note 1 of the 
Group financial statements.
s tatement of d irectors’ r es Ponsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and 
Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, as adopted by  
the EU, to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group. 
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that 
references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true  
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements  
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors  
are required to:
•	Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Company financial statements; and
•	Prepare both the Group and Company financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate 
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the Group website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   29
r es Ponsibility statement of the d irectors in res Pect of 
the a nnual r eP ort and Grou P financial statements The Board confirms that to the best of their knowledge:
•	The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Group and the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
•	The Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group and the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Board approved the above Responsibility statement on 9 June 2010.
a uditors
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, separate resolutions for the 
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and for the approval 
of their remuneration are to be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm 
that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
By order of the Board
S P Williams
c ompany s ecretary
Methuen Park  
Chippenham  
Wiltshire  
SN14 0WT  
9 June 2010 30   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
co RpoRA te GoVeRNANce
Governance
i ntroduction The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and 
supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (‘the Code’) as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008. 
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on 
the Company’s compliance with the Code’s provisions. A copy of the Code can be 
found online at www.frc.org.uk/corporate/combinedcode.cfm.
b oard of d irectors As at 31 March 2010, the Board had eight members, comprising the non-executive 
Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Human Resources 
Director and four further independent non-executive Directors. All Directors bring 
strong judgement to the Board’s deliberations. The Board is of sufficient size and 
diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for 
the requirements of the business. The non-executive Directors are all independent 
of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those 
relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.3.1 of the Code, that could 
materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement. 
The Company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent 
(for the purposes of provision A.3.1 of the Code) and furthermore the preceding 
comments regarding freedom from business or other relationships also apply to 
him. However, after appointment, the Code specifies that the Chairman ceases to be 
classed as independent. The non-executive Directors have each been appointed for 
a three-year term. 
At all times during the year there has been a majority of independent non-executive 
Directors on the Board, excluding the Chairman, in compliance with Code provision 
A.3.2.
The biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 25. The Directors have 
all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK listed companies (or, in the case of 
Dr W Hasselkus, German listed companies) and have substantial experience in 
business. The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s 
pension schemes or in any of the Group’s bonus, share option or other incentive 
schemes. All Directors must stand for election at the first AGM after they are 
appointed, and they must stand for re-election at least every three years.
The Board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the Group. 
The Board normally meets ten times each financial year and has a formal schedule 
of matters reserved to it for decision-making, including the approval of annual 
and half year results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material 
agreements and major capital commitments. Executive Directors are responsible 
for communicating the Group’s strategy to senior managers and for the day-to-day 
operational activity of the Group. The Company Secretary maintains a record of 
attendance at Board and Committee meetings, further details of which are set 
out on page 31. During the year the Chairman also met with the non-executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board  
or Committee meeting. This normally includes a detailed report on current trading 
and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or 
give its approval. Reports are presented to the Board periodically on matters such  
as pensions, insurance and treasury. Health and safety is reviewed at every Board 
meeting and other specific business-related presentations are given when 
appropriate.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, 
by the Board of medium-term plans and annual budgets for the geographical 
operating segments. Each geographical operating segment reports on its 
performance against its agreed budget at each Board meeting. The Board receives 
an update on performance and reviews significant variances at each Board meeting. 
All major investment decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
In line with agreed procedures, the Chairman has conducted interviews with each 
Director and assessed their individual performance. The Chairman has carried out 
an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Committee 
and, led by the Senior Independent non-executive Director, the non-executive 
Directors have assessed the performance of the Chairman taking into account the 
views of the Executive Directors. The Chairman and the Senior Independent 
non-executive Director have presented the conclusions of those assessments to the 
Board. The evaluation process is designed to cover Board processes, the structure 
and capability of the Board, strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills 
brought to the Board by each Director. As part of the process, training needs are 
reviewed and acted upon as appropriate.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take, at the Company’s 
expense, independent professional advice if necessary. In addition, the Directors 
have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is 
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed. Both the 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as 
a whole. The Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director take joint 
responsibility for preparing and implementing an induction programme for Board 
appointees, including guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a 
Director of the Company and business familiarisation.
Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting sites, in both the UK and Mainland 
Europe, and giving the Directors the opportunity to meet senior managers around 
the business. They also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational 
and administrative matters. The Company provides directors and officers insurance 
cover, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of Directors in respect of 
claims arising in the performance of their duties. 
The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.  
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the 
Chairman and Chief Executive respectively and adopted by the Board.  
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board and ensuring 
that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved. The Chief Executive is responsible 
for the day-to-day running of the business. The Board has delegated appropriate 
responsibilities to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group 
Human Resources Director. 
b oard c ommittees 
There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters 
are delegated. The Committees all have formal Terms of Reference that have been 
approved by the Board and that are available on the Group website.
t he Nomination c ommittee comprises J Cox, N England, Dr W Hasselkus, 
G McFaull and P Venables, under the chairmanship of D A Edmonds. The Committee 
meets as necessary and is responsible for considering and recommending to  
the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and 
non-executive Directors. There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. This process involves the 
Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed 
by either existing Board members or by an external search company. Careful 
consideration is given to ensure that appointees have enough time available to 
devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board is maintained. When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the 
Chairman, the Senior Independent non-executive Director will chair the Committee 
instead of the Chairman. When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, 
the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the 
appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation 
from the Committee. In addition, the Committee has been empowered to review 
annually and approve any potential situational conflict of interest. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   31
t he Remuneration c ommittee comprises J Cox, D A Edmonds, Dr W Hasselkus and 
P Venables, under the chairmanship of N England. The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible, within a framework established by the Board overall, for setting the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors and certain senior managers. It is also 
responsible for awarding bonuses, long-term incentives, pension rights and any 
compensation packages, and for determining the terms of any compensation 
package in the event of early termination of the contract of any Director or senior 
manager.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year. The Chairman of 
the Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board. Full details of its 
activities and of Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 33 to 42. Those pages detail compliance with the legal 
requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
t he Audit c ommittee comprises N England, Dr W Hasselkus and P Venables 
under the chairmanship of J Cox. The Committee meets at least three times a year. 
P Venables is the current Group Finance Director of Hays plc and, as such, is 
competent in the field of accounting and has the requisite recent and relevant 
financial experience. In compliance with Combined Code provision C.3.1, 
all members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive Directors.  
The Committee is responsible for, and during the year carried out, the following:
•	Reviewing the annual and half year financial statements before they are presented 
to the Board;
•	Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control;
•	Agreeing internal and external audit plans;
•	Receiving reports from external auditors’ and from the Head of Internal Audit and 
dealing with any significant control issues arising;
•	Monitoring and reviewing the external auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the external audit process;
•	Making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of 
the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement; 
•	Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors 
to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance 
regarding the provision of such services by the external audit firm; and 
•	To report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that 
action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to  
be taken. 
The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements by which staff of the Group 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of 
financial reporting or otherwise. It is an objective of the Committee to ensure that 
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation  
of any such matters and for overseeing the appropriate follow-up action,  
where required.
It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained between the Group and its external auditors. The Group 
has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditors in order that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded. 
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected 
to exceed £150,000, are subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and the Group Finance Director. If non-audit project fees are expected 
to exceed £250,000 the prior approval of the Board is required. The Chairman of the 
Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives 
the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
a ttendance at meetin Gs The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance of Directors at Board and 
Committee meetings and the record of attendance during the year ended 31 March 
2010 is as follows:
Board
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
G D Connell 10 – 1
1
3
1
G McFaull 10 2 3
1
3
1
N Sullivan 10 – 3
1
3
1
J Cox 10 1 3 3
P G Cox
2
4 1 1 1
D A Edmonds 10 2 3 3
4
N England 10 1 3 3
Dr W Hasselkus 10 – 3 3
P Venables
3
6 1 2 2
Total number of meetings 10 2 3 3
1
 Attended at the invitation of the Committee.
2
 Retired on 23 July 2009.
3
 Appointed on 2 September 2009.
4
  Resigned from the Audit Committee on 22 September 2009 and attended two of the 
Audit Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
s hareholder relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with 
shareholders. The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and certain 
other senior managers have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in 
order to develop an understanding of their views, which are fed back to the Board. 
The other non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent non-
executive Director, attend meetings with major shareholders to listen to their views. 
Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the 
annual and half year results. Pages 5 to 8 and pages 16 to 20 of the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2010 detail the financial performance of the Group as well as setting 
out the risks it faces and plans for the future. The Company Secretary generally deals 
with questions from individual shareholders. All shareholders have the opportunity 
to ask questions at the Company’s AGM, which all Directors attend. The Chairmen of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer 
questions at the AGM. The Chairman will advise shareholders on proxy voting levels. 
In addition, the Group’s website containing published information and press 
releases can be found at www.wincanton.co.uk. 32   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
co RpoRA te GoVeRNANce
Governance
i nternal control and risk The respective responsibilities in connection with the financial statements are set 
out in the Directors’ report on pages 26 to 29 and 43 for the Directors and Auditors 
respectively. The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks  
faced by the Group has been in place throughout the year which accords with the 
Turnbull guidance on internal control. The Audit Committee has, as part of its review 
process, considered the Group’s system of internal control throughout the year. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to meet business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the control system are as follows:
•	The Group has an organisational structure with established lines of accountability 
as well as clearly defined levels of authority;
•	The Group has issued manuals, including the Group’s Code of Ethics, which  
provide details of the key policies and procedures to be followed and the overall 
environment in which the business is expected to operate; and
•	The Group has a system of control self-certification, which provides a documented 
trail of accountability against the internal control policies and procedures.
This process is facilitated by the Internal Audit Department which also provides  
a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal 
control. 
All types of risk applicable to the business are regularly reviewed. In addition, a 
formal risk assessment review is carried out and presented to the Board for its 
consideration on an annual basis to highlight key risks to the business and to 
consider action that can reasonably and cost-effectively be taken to reduce them. 
The Internal Audit Department is involved in the review and testing of the internal 
control system and of key risks across the Group, in accordance with the annual 
programme agreed with the Audit Committee. From time to time it undertakes 
ad-hoc assignments requested by senior managers or the Audit Committee, the 
findings of which are discussed with the Audit Committee.
c om Pliance The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 and to the  
date of this report. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   33
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
i ntroduction This report has been prepared in accordance with The Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 Large & Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008, (the ‘Regulations’). The report also meets the relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes 
how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of  
the Combined Code and the Markets Law relating to Directors’ remuneration.  
As required by the Regulations, an advisory resolution to approve this report will  
be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will 
be approved.
remuneration committee The remuneration policy is set by the Board and is described below. The Remuneration 
Committee, within the framework of this policy, determines individual remuneration 
packages for all Executive Directors and the Chairman taking into consideration the 
pay and conditions of other employees. Remuneration for non-executive Directors 
is determined by the Board, taking into consideration the commitments and 
responsibilities of the role. The names of the Directors who were members of the 
Remuneration Committee as at the 31 March 2010 are set out on page 25 and 
individual attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings is set out on page 31.
Except when matters concerning their own positions are being considered, the 
Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director are normally invited to  
attend the meetings of the Remuneration Committee to assist the Committee.  
The Remuneration Committee discuss any matter affecting the Chairman without 
the Chairman being present.
The Remuneration Committee has access to independent advice where it considers 
it appropriate. During the year, such advice was received from PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP who also provided remuneration advice to the Group in respect of other senior 
managers.
r emuneration Policy During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Board undertook a review of Group 
remuneration to ensure that the overall remuneration practices achieved the 
strategic aims of the Group. The review took into account the following:
•	Market conditions;
•	The need to ensure that the remuneration policy was in line with the risk  
profile for the Group set by the Board and was consistent with an overall  
policy to encourage long-term sustainable performance;
•	The need to help reinforce the Group’s strategy for growth;
•	The requirement to provide strong alignment with the delivery of value  
to shareholders;
•	The requirement to have clear and stretching targets;
•	The need for the remuneration policy to be tailored to the Group’s circumstances;
•	The requirement for the Group to recruit, retain and motivate talent;
•	To ensure the policy took into account employee performance;
•	Cost-effectiveness; and
•	Reflected corporate governance best practice.
The results of the review are summarised in the table below (further explanation is provided in the body of the report): 
Element of remuneration Policy pre-review Policy post-review Detail of changes Effect on potential total compensation
Salary Annual review
1
 Annual review
1
 No increase in salaries for  
year ended 31 March 2010
Neutral 
Maximum annual  
bonus potential 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75% of salary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100% of salary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration Committee felt  
that the maximum bonus  
potential should be set at the  
lower quartile/median level  
within the FTSE 250. In addition,  
a percentage of any bonus  
earned is deferred in shares  
(for year ended 31 March 2010  
– 75% of the bonus earned will be 
deferred in shares)
Increase 
Payment profile has been changed 
from an immediate cash bonus  
to a bonus payment in cash and 
Deferred Shares
2
 
 
 
 
Executive Share Options No grants made to  
Executive Directors
No grants made to  
any employees
Not applicable 
Share Match  
Incentive Scheme
Annual grants No grants made during  
the year
Decrease 
Performance Share Plan 
 
 
Maximum annual grant  
100% of salary 
 
No change 
 
 
No change to the type of 
performance condition used  
but amendments to the method 
of calculation and levels (see later)
Neutral 
 
 
Total Compensation Value Decrease
1
 The salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee as detailed below.
2 
Deferred Shares are granted as nil cost options under the terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme which is described in more detail later on in this report.
r ene Wal of e xecutive oP tion s chemes and a ll e m Ployee saye scheme The Company is seeking renewal of the Executive Share Option Schemes, including both the approved and unapproved elements, and the SAYE Scheme on substantially 
the same terms (see Notice of AGM for further information). The Remuneration Committee has no intention of operating the Executive Share Option Schemes for Executive 
Directors or senior managers as stand alone incentive arrangements. However, the Remuneration Committee wishes to retain the ability in the future to grant options to 
other employees on objective conditions it determines are appropriate. There is no current intention to grant options to other employees or operate the SAYE scheme. 34   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
Governance
b alance bet Ween f ixed and v ariable ( Performance 
based ) c om Pensation for y ear end ed 31 m arch 2010
Fixed compensation is calculated as: Variable performance compensation is calculated as:
Salary Maximum bonus available
Benefits Face value of the PSP
The balance between the potential fixed and variable performance based 
compensation for each Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2010 is 35% 
fixed compensation and 65% variable compensation.
It should be noted that, unless expressly stated otherwise, the Remuneration 
Committee intends to operate the same policy for the year ending 31 March 201 1 
as applied for the year ended 31 March 2010.
s alary When determining the base salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration 
Committee takes into consideration:
•	The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility 
and skills in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity, in particular the 
median salary levels of those comparable companies within the FTSE 250;
•	The performance of the individual Executive Director; 
•	The individual Executive Director’s experience and responsibilities; and
•	Pay and conditions throughout the Group.
The following table summarises the base salary of Executive Directors:
Name
At  
31 March 2010
At 
31 March 2009
Percentage  
change
G D Connell £378,000 £378,000 0%
G McFaull £472,500 £472,500 0%
N Sullivan £283,500 £283,500 0%
annual bonus The Remuneration Committee has changed the payment profile from an immediate 
cash bonus to a bonus which is a blend of cash and shares. This will provide better 
long-term alignment with shareholders, with the majority of payment being delivered 
in Deferred Shares. As part of this review the Remuneration Committee considered 
the annual bonus arrangements and determined to increase the maximum bonus 
potential for the Executive Directors from 75 per cent of salary to 100 per cent of salary. 
This package of changes was put in place for the following reasons: 
•	The Committee’s view that the Group needed to set focused annual performance 
targets to support the Group’s strategy;
•	The view of the Committee that the annual bonus is the most effective way  
of incentivising the Executive Directors to satisfy these targets; and
•	The maximum bonus potential, which was below the FTSE 250 median, should be 
increased to provide a competitive level of reward for achieving  
these targets (particularly given the salary freeze in the year and the impact  
of the recession on long-term incentive arrangements).
The Remuneration Committee is keen to ensure that the annual bonus rewards 
sustainable performance and therefore, to provide an element of risk adjustment, 
the Committee has determined that a percentage of bonus earned will be deferred 
in shares granted as nil cost options over market purchased shares. These options 
vest subject to continued employment at the end of the vesting period under the 
Terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme approved by the Remuneration 
Committee in June 2009. The following tables set out the main features of the 
annual bonus plan operated for year the ended 31 March 2010:
G D Connell G McFaull N Sullivan 
Bonus potential 100% 100% 100%
Median FTSE Mid 250 100% 100% 100%
Lower Quartile FTSE Mid 250 100% 75% 75%
2010 Bonus awarded as percentage  
of salary 60% 64% 68%
Median Bonus Payments in the FTSE  
Mid 250 as a percentage of salary 63% 60% 60%
The performance targets for the bonus plan for the year ended 31 March 2010 were:
Target
Percentage of 
maximum 
bonus 
potential
Group profit (excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
impairment of goodwill and exceptionals) 75%
Individual performance 25%
Bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be settled as follows:
Method of payment Settlement level
Immediate cash payment 25.0%
Deferred Shares
1
: one year vesting period 3 7.5%
Deferred Shares
1
: two year vesting period 3 7.5%
1
 Granted as nil cost options under the terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme.
The targets for the annual bonus scheme are reviewed and agreed by the 
Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that they are appropriate to the 
current market conditions and position of the Group in order to ensure that  
they continue to remain challenging. Underlying performance targets for Executive 
Directors’ bonuses were reviewed in the year ended 31 March 2010 to ensure that 
they remained in line with the Group’s overall business strategy in that year. It is the 
opinion of the Committee that the overall nature of the conditions remain 
appropriate for the requirements of the Group for the year ending 31 March 201 1.
It should be noted that bonus payments are not pensionable. 
The maximum bonus potential for the year ending 31 March 201 1 will also be 100 
per cent of salary.
b onuses for year end ed 31 m arch 2010
Bonus earned
Method of 
payment Terms and conditions of award
Immediate cash payment 25.0% Continued employment of the employee 
on the date of payment.
1. Continued employment of the 
employee to the relevant vesting date.
2. All shares will be market purchased and 
provided through the Employee 
Share Trust.
3. Shares will be forfeited on normal 
cessation of employment before the 
relevant vesting date (10 year life from 
date of grant). 
4. Shares will vest on a change of control 
of the Company.
5. The Remuneration Committee may 
grant part of the award of the Deferred 
Shares under the Approved Option 
Scheme to provide tax efficiency for the 
Company and employees at no additional 
cost to the Company or its shareholders.
Deferred Shares:  
one year vesting period 3 7.5%
Deferred Shares:  
two year vesting period 3 7.5%
The Remuneration Committee will determine each year the percentage of bonus 
paid in cash and Deferred Shares and the deferral period for any shares awarded.
value of bonus to b e deferred in shares As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
Value of bonus 
 to be deferred 
 in shares
£’000
G D Connell 171
G McFaull 228
N Sullivan 144 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   35
The grant of Deferred Shares is calculated with reference to the middle market closing price of a share on the immediately preceding day, or the average of  
the middle market closing price of a share on the three or five business days immediately preceding grant. The grant of Deferred Shares is expected to be made at the time 
the June 2010 salary is paid.
During the year and between 1 April 2010 and 9 June 2010, there have been no changes in the number of Deferred Shares held by the Executive Directors.
b enefits The Group provides the normal benefits in kind for Executive Directors in a business of this size, such as company car allowance, healthcare and life insurance.
e xecutive d irectors’ emoluments Audited information:
The value of Executive Directors’ salary, annual bonus and benefits (excluding awards of options) is set out in the following table:
Salary 
£’000
Benefits 
£’000
Performance
 
bonus
1
 
£’000
2010 
Total 
£’000
2009
Total
2
£’000
G D Connell 378 17 57 452 390
G McFaull 473 26 76 575 492
N Sullivan 284 17 48 349 296
1
  The annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2010 consists of the cash element of the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme award which was introduced in the year. Further details relating to the 
share deferral element can be found above.
2
  The Executive Directors did not receive a bonus for the year ended 31 March 2009 nor did they receive a salary increase, in the year ended 31 March 2010.
l on G-term incentives As noted on page 33, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the remuneration policy. As a result of this review the only arrangement under which Executive Directors 
were granted a long-term incentive award during the year ended 31 March 2010 was through the Performance Share Plan. The following table summarises the operation of 
the PSP for the year under review:
Feature G D Connell G McFaull N Sullivan
Maximum annual grant as percentage of salary 100% 100% 100%
PSP Grant made on 12 June 2009
Face value £378,000 £472,500 £283,500
Face value as percentage of salary 100% 100% 100%
FTSE Mid 250 (median)
Face value as percentage of salary 11 9% 104% 104%
It should be noted that the actual value of the shares received by Executive Directors will depend on the level of satisfaction of the attached performance conditions and 
the Company’s share price on the date of vesting.
In addition the Remuneration Committee determined to change the performance conditions for the PSP grant made on 12 June 2009 from the performance condition 
that applied to earlier grants under the PSP . The following table sets out the old conditions and the new conditions which apply over the three year performance period:
Percentage of  
award subject  
to condition Performance condition for the grants made on 14 December 2007 and 27 June 2008 Performance condition for the grant made on 12 June 2009
50% 
 
 
 
 
 
This element of the award will vest if the total shareholder return (‘TSR’)  
of the Company equals the TSR of the FTSE 250 Index, rising on a 
straight-line basis to 100% vesting if the TSR performance of the 
Company is equal to or greater than 20% per annum in excess  
of the FTSE 250 Index. 
 
The following table sets out the new TSR performance condition over the 
three-year performance period:
Company TSR performance against 
constituents of the FTSE 250
Percentage of salary vested
1
  
(percentage of award in brackets)
<Median 
Median 
Upper quartile
0% 
25% (50%) 
50% (100%)
50% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% of this element of the award will vest if the annual growth  
in underlying EPS of the Company equals 6% per annum, rising on a  
straight-line basis to 100% vesting of the Award if annual growth  
in underlying EPS equals or exceeds 15% per annum. 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative EPS targets over three year performance period:
Cumulative EPS
Percentage of salary vested
1
 
(percentage of award in brackets)
66.2p
67p
68p
69p
70p
25% (50%)
30% (60%)
37.5% (75%)
42.5% (85%)
50% (100%)
1
Straight line vesting between points. 36   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
Governance
b asis for c han Ge The Remuneration Committee determined to change the performance conditions because:
TSR
•	The Remuneration Committee felt that it was clearer to participants and a better incentive if the requirement was for the Company to achieve better comparative 
shareholder returns compared to identifiable companies rather than an Index;
•	The use of the constituents of a comparator group is consistent with market practice; and
•	The overall basis of comparison was maintained i.e. performance compared to the FTSE 250.
EPS
•	The Remuneration Committee felt that a cumulative underlying EPS target was more appropriate because:
– it was less dependent on the timing of the recovery of the Group’s earnings; 
– it avoided any artificial outcome resulting from negative growth at some points during the three-year performance period; 
–  it retained its motivating effect throughout the performance period as exceptional over performance at the end of the performance period would allow  
the performance condition to be satisfied; and
–  it was felt that there was greater clarity and therefore better alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders where an amount of value per share  
was targeted.
The Remuneration Committee retained the right to revise the EPS performance condition upwards to ensure that it remains challenging should the market recover beyond 
that expected by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
b asis of s election of Performance c onditions The Remuneration Committee believes that underlying EPS is a good measure of performance for the Group, and provides good line-of-sight for Executives.  
The Remuneration Committee also believes that TSR performance against the FTSE 250 constituents provides a good relative benchmark of the Group’s performance and 
provides good alignment with shareholders’ interests. The Remuneration Committee believes that the sliding scale for each of the performance conditions will provide  
a better relationship between pay and performance, and be more motivational to the participants. Subject to passing the performance conditions and the awards  
vesting, participants have a six-month period in which to exercise.
The targets for the PSP are reviewed and agreed by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and 
position of the Company in order to ensure that they continue to remain challenging. It is the opinion of the Remuneration Committee that the overall nature of the 
conditions remain appropriate for the requirements of the Group for the year ending 31 March 201 1.
Performance s hare Plan 
The relevant three-year periods for measuring the performance conditions are as follows:
Date of grant Performance period Performance status
December 2007 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2010 Failed
June 2008 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 201 1 Untested
June 2009 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2012 Untested
e xecutive d irectors’ interests in Performance shares As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
Name/Date of grant Opening Granted Closing
Earliest date 
exercisable
Latest  
exercise date
G D Connell
December 2007 46,875 – 46,875 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 125,435 – 125,435 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
June 2009 – 190,909 190,909 12/06/20 12 12/12/20 12
G McFaull
December 2007 58,593 – 58,593 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 156,794 – 156,794 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
June 2009 – 238,636 238,636 12/06/20 12 12/12/20 12
N Sullivan
December 2007 35, 156 – 35, 156 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 94,076 – 94,076 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
June 2009 – 143, 181 143, 181 12/06/20 12 12/12/20 12
There have been no changes in the number of Performance Shares held by Executive Directors between 1 April 2010 and 9 June 2010. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   37
d iscretionary s hare Plans not o Perated in the y ear under r evie W
Name of plan Performance conditions Other relevant terms
Executive  
Share  
Option 
Schemes
Average annual growth in the Group’s underlying EPS over the 
three-year performance period must equal or exceed the average  
annual growth in RPI+3% for options to vest.
1. Participants have seven years to exercise vested options. 
2.  Options are not granted at a discount to the prevailing market price  
on the date of grant.
Original  
Share Match 
Incentive  
Scheme  
 
 
Average annual growth in the Group’s underlying EPS over the  
three-year performance period must equal or exceed the average  
annual growth in RPI+3% for matching shares to vest.  
 
 
 
For Executive Directors the minimum (mandatory) investment was 25%,  
and the maximum voluntary investment a further 75%, of their net annual 
bonus. For Executive Directors those mandatory lodged shares, subject  
to performance conditions, were matched after three years on a 1:1 basis  
with voluntarily lodged shares matched on a 2:1 basis. No shares have 
been lodged in excess of the mandatory amount by Executive Directors 
under the original SMIS.
Revised  
Share Match 
Incentive  
Scheme
Up to 50% of the award will vest subject to the Company’s TSR 
performance over three years equalling or exceeding that of the  
FTSE 250 Index over the same period (the ‘TSR Award’). 10% of  
the TSR Award will vest if the TSR performance equals the TSR  
of the FTSE 250 index, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting  
of the TSR Award if the TSR performance is equal to or greater than  
20% per annum in excess of the Index.
Up to 50% of the award will vest subject to the Group’s underlying EPS 
performance over three years (the ‘EPS Award’). 10% of the EPS Award will 
vest if the compound annual growth in underlying EPS equals 6% per 
annum, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting of the EPS Award 
if compound annual growth in underlying EPS equals or exceeds 15% 
per annum. 
Executive Directors were given the opportunity to purchase Company 
shares with a value of up to 50% of their net annual basic salary (100% of 
their net annual basic salary in respect of the first award made in December 
2007) and lodge those shares with the Employee Share Trust in its capacity 
as Nominee, in return for the opportunity to earn matching shares after 
a further three years. The minimum investment for Executive Directors is 
25% of their net annual bonus. Participants have the opportunity to earn 
matching shares, subject to performance conditions, with a total market 
value in any one financial year of up to 200% of gross annual salary, or 
up to 400% of gross annual salary in respect of the first award made in 
December 2007 . All matching shares would be forfeited if a participant 
resigns or withdraws their investment within three years from the start 
of the performance period. Dividends will be accrued on matching shares 
over the performance period but paid at vesting and only on those 
matching shares that vest.
All of the Company’s share schemes include provisions for accelerated vesting on change of control, conditional where relevant on satisfaction of performance conditions, 
and in some circumstances subject to pro-rata reduction.
e xecutive s hare oP tions The relevant three-year period for measuring the performance condition for each option grant is as follows:
Date of grant Performance period Performance status
June and September 2001 Any three consecutive financial years within the period 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2006 Passed
1
July and December 2002 Any three consecutive financial years within the period 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2007 Passed
1
March 2004 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2006 Passed
1
December 2004 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2007 Passed
1
July and December 2005 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2008 Passed
1
December 2006 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2009 Passed
1
December 2007 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2010 Failed
1
 Options are exercisable subject to the continued employment condition. 38   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
Governance
e xecutive d irectors’ interests in executive share o Ptions As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
Name/Date of grant Options opening Options exercised Options closing Exercise price Latest exercise date
G D Connell
June 2001 263, 157 – 263, 157 £ 1 .90 1 8/06/20 11
December 2002 50,000 – 50,000 £ 1 .93 12/12/20 12
December 2004 106,367 – 106,367 £2.69 1 5/12/20 1 4
December 2005 94,030 – 94,030 £3.35 1 3/12/20 1 5
December 2006 99,423 – 99,423 £3.47 1 3/12/20 1 6
G McFaull
June 2001 1 1 7, 9 2 1 – 1 1 7, 9 2 1 £ 1 .90 1 8/06/20 11
December 2002 50,000 – 50,000 £ 1 .93 12/12/20 12
December 2004 96,654 – 96,654 £2.69 1 5/12/20 1 4
December 2005 1 1 7, 9 1 0 – 1 1 7, 9 1 0 £3.35 1 3/12/20 1 5
December 2006 123,9 1 9 – 123,9 1 9 £3.47 1 3/12/20 1 6
N Sullivan
December 2002 8, 1 81 – 8, 1 81 £ 1 .93 12/12/20 12
December 2004 71,004 – 71,004 £2.69 1 5/12/20 1 4
December 2005 59,850 – 59,850 £3.35 1 3/12/20 1 5
December 2006 67 ,723 – 67 ,723 £3.47 1 3/12/20 1 6
During the year and between 1 April 2010 and 9 June 2010, there have been no changes in the number of Executive Share Options held by the Executive Directors.
m atchin G shares Original Share Match Incentive Scheme
There have been four awards of Matching Shares and the relevant three-year periods for each of these awards are as follows:
Date of grant Performance period Performance Status
June 2005 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2008 Passed
1
July 2006 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2009 Passed
1
July 2007
2
The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2010 Failed
June 2008
2
The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 201 1 Untested
1
 Vesting period has expired.
2
 The Executive Board, including Executive Directors and certain other senior managers, were not included in these grants.
e xecutive d irectors’ interests in matchin G shares Granted under ori Ginal smis As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
Name/Date of grant
Options 
opening
Options 
exercised
Options 
closing
Date of  
exercise
Share price at  
date of exercise
G D Connell
July 2006 10,646 10,646 – 1 3/07 /2009 £ 1 .71
G McFaull
July 2006 12,7 43 12,7 43 – 1 3/07 /2009 £ 1 .71
N Sullivan
July 2006 6,701 6,701 – 1 3/07 /2009 £ 1 .71
The number of shares lodged by the Executive Directors and which are used to determine the matching award are recorded on page 40. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   39
Revised Share Match Incentive Scheme
The relevant three-year periods for the Matching Share awards are as follows:
Date of grant Performance period Performance status
December 2007 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 2010 Failed
June 2008 The three consecutive financial years ended 31 March 201 1 Untested
Matching Shares are classed as nil cost options for the purposes of the plan rules.
e xecutive d irectors’ maximum interests in matchin G shares under revised smis As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
Name/Date of grant
Options
opening
Options  
granted
Options  
closing
Earliest date 
exercisable 
Latest exercise 
date
G D Connell
December 2007 375,000 – 375,000 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 250,871 – 250,871 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
G McFaull
December 2007 468,750 – 468,750 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 2 1 7,7 84 – 2 1 7,7 84 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
N Sullivan
December 2007 281,250 – 281,250 1 4/12/20 1 0 1 4/06/20 11
June 2008 1 88, 153 – 1 88, 153 2 7 /06/20 11 2 7 / 1 2/20 11
share incentive Plan 
The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan approved by HMRC, which includes partnership, matching and dividend shares:-
Name Status Eligibility Main features
Share Incentive Plan  
(HMRC approved)
Operated in the year 
ended 31 March 2010 
and will be operated 
in the year ending 
31 March 201 1. 
All UK employees  
of the Group with a 
minimum service of 
three months.
The SIP provides employees with the opportunity to purchase up to £1,500 of 
Partnership Shares a year out of pre-tax salary and to receive additional Matching 
Shares. These Matching Shares will normally be released three years after they have 
been awarded provided that the associated shares purchased by the employee have 
been retained and provided the employee is still employed by a Group company. 
Employees receive one Matching Share for every four Partnership Shares purchased 
by the employee. It is the current intention that the same level of match will be made 
in the year ending 31 March 201 1. 
As at 31 March 2010 1,679 (2009: 1,801) employees participated in the SIP . 40   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
Governance
e xecutive d irectors’ interests in the si P
As at 31 March 2010
Audited information:
At 31 March 2010 At 1 April 2009
Partnership Shares Matching Shares Dividend Shares Partnership Shares Matching Shares Dividend Shares
G McFaull 2,812 699 478 2,069 5 17 244
N Sullivan 2,812 699 478 2,069 5 17 244
Between 1 April 2010 and 9 June 2010, 11 0 Partnership Shares were purchased by and 27 Matching Shares awarded to each of the Executive Directors included in the  
above table.
d ilution Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of executive share options granted before December 2004; all other long-term incentives are satisfied by 
shares delivered by the Trust, that buys the shares on the market using funding from the Company. For those vested options granted on or after December 2004 and for 
leavers of those option grants, the Trust ‘equity settles’ those options granted under the Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme. It is considered that by equity 
settling an option exercise, the participant does not suffer a detrimental effect and the shares purchased by the Trust will be available to meet more of the outstanding 
options on exercise. As at 31 March 2010, the Trust held 7 ,109,385 shares representing 5.86 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company. In addition, as nominee the 
Trust holds 262,814 shares pledged by the Executive Directors under the Revised SMIS. It is the view of the Board that the current shareholding of the Trust represents the 
peak level with no material increase expected in the year ending 31 March 201 1. The Board believes that the number of shares held by the Trust is appropriate and that 
advantage has been taken of what is considered to be an advantageous price of the Company’s shares.
In accordance with the ABI guidelines and scheme rules, the Company can issue a maximum of ten per cent of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to 
employees under all its share plans. Within this 10 per cent, the Company can only issue 5 per cent to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. The table below 
sets out the level of dilution against these limits as at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009.
Total dilution
31 March 2010 31 March 2009
All share plans (maximum 10%) 6% 6%
Discretionary share plans (maximum 5%) 4% 4%
It is the current intention that awards granted under the Company’s share plans in the year under review will be satisfied by market purchased shares.
e xecutive d irectors’ shareholdin Gs The Board believes it is important that the interests of Executive Directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders. The long-term incentives provide 
considerable alignment. As at 31 March 2010, the Executive Directors held the following shares:
Partnership and dividend  
shares held under the SIP
Lodged shares held  
under the SMIS Unrestricted shares held Total shares held Percentage of net salary
31 March 
2010
31 March 
2009
31 March 
2010
31 March 
2009
31 March 
2010
31 March 
2009
31 March 
2010
31 March 
2009
31 March 
2010
1
31 March 
2009
1
G D Connell – – 92,315 1 02,961 50,242 28,950 142,557 1 3 1 , 9 11 126% 95%
G McFaull 3,290 2,3 13 101,263 11 4,006 35,486 10,000 140,039 126,3 1 9 99% 73%
N Sullivan 3,290 2,3 13 69,236 75,937 19,402 6,000 91,928 84,250 109% 8 1%
1
 Percentage holding calculated with reference to annual base salary and share price as at 31 March 2010 of 201.25p (2009: 164p).
There were no changes in the Directors’ personal holdings between 1 April 2010 and 9 June 2010 except for those in relation to the SIP detailed above. None of the 
Executive Directors held any shares non-beneficially nor had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertakings.
e xecutive d irectors’ Pensions All Executive Directors are members of the defined benefit section of the Wincanton plc Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’) which is now closed to new entrants.  
Executive Directors are generally eligible for a pension of up to two-thirds of base salary at normal retirement age of 60; normally after 20 years of qualifying service  
(for which purpose previous service with Uniq plc will qualify). The current ages of G D Connell, G McFaull and N Sullivan are 52, 48 and 43, respectively and their length  
of qualifying service is 13 years 5 months, 16 years and 7 years 4 months respectively. Pensions for Executive Directors are provided so far as possible through the  
Scheme and additionally through the use of unfunded arrangements. The aim of such unfunded arrangements is to provide broadly similar benefits to those that would 
otherwise be payable from the Scheme had the Executive Directors not been subject to the maximum permitted earnings as provided by HMRC before 6 April 2006  
and as continued in relation to the Scheme by a deed executed on 23 March 2006. Pension benefits are calculated on base salary only.
The Scheme provides for the payment of benefits on death or disability. On death, a two-thirds spouse’s pension is due. Children’s allowances to a maximum, including 
spouse’s pension, of 100 per cent of the Executive’s pension may be payable.
Accrued pension at  
1 April 2009 
£’000 
Increase in accrued 
pension in the year 
£’000
Accrued pension at 
31 March 2010 
£’000
G D Connell 145 14 159
G McFaull 178 13 191
N Sullivan 50 9 59 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   41
Transfer value at 
1 April 2009 
£’000
Transfer value  
of increase in  
accrued benefit 
excluding  
inflation 
£’000
Directors’ 
contributions 
£’000
Transfer value  
of net increase 
£’000
Total change in 
transfer value 
£’000
Transfer value at  
31 March 2010 
£’000
G D Connell 2,270 238 4 187 429 2,699
G McFaull 2,469 199 4 249 452 2,921
N Sullivan 563 109 4 40 153 716
e m Ployment c ontracts Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of the Company in force at the end of the year ended 31 March 2010 are as follows: 
Name Company notice period Contract date Unexpired term of contract Potential termination payment
G D Connell 1 2 months 23 March 2001 Rolling contract 1 2 months’ salary and benefits
G McFaull 1 2 months 23 March 2001 Rolling contract 1 2 months’ salary and benefits
N Sullivan 1 2 months 7 November 2002 Rolling contract 1 2 months’ salary and benefits
The Executive Directors’ contracts are on a rolling basis, unless terminated by at least 12 months written notice. This arrangement is in line with best corporate practice for  
listed companies. In the event of the termination of an Executive Directors’ contract, salary and benefits will be payable during the notice period (there will, however, be no 
automatic entitlement to bonus payments or share incentive grants during the period of notice other than in accordance with the rules of the relevant incentive plan).  
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that there have been no unjustified payments for failure on an Executive Director’s termination of employment. There are no 
special provisions in the contracts of employment extending notice periods on a change of control, liquidation of the Company or cessation of employment. 
t otal shareholder return The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company since the date of first listing of the Company’s shares on the London Stock Exchange  
on 18 May 2001, against the FTSE All Share, FTSE Small Cap and FTSE 250 indices.
o utside a PPointments The Board allows Executive Directors and other appropriate senior employees to accept a maximum of one non-executive appointment outside the Group, subject to 
permission from the Remuneration Committee and provided there are no conflicts of interest. It is believed that such appointments can enhance Directors’ experience 
and value to the Group. Accordingly, G McFaull is a non-executive Director of Wates Group Limited and G D Connell is the Senior Independent non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Pennon Group plc. The retention by them of the fees of £23,916 (since G McFaull’s appointment on 1 September 2009) and £53,000 
respectively for the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: nil and £50,400 respectively) have been approved by the Board.
G McFaull was President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT), between May 2009 and May 2010. There are no fees payable for this position.
TSR SINCE DEMERGER
250
200
150
May
2001
Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
Wincanton
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
SepMar SepMar SepMar SepMar SepMar SepMar SepMar SepMar
50
100
FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share FTSE Small Cap
SepMar
2010 42   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
DiRecto Rs’ RemuNeRA tio N RepoRt
Governance
n on-executive d irectors’ re Ward Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s incentive or benefit plans. Their fees are reviewed annually, having regard to competitive market practice, 
supported by research through external independent surveys. The Remuneration Committee and the Chief Executive set the Chairman’s fees; the Board as a whole sets 
those for the other non-executive Directors.
The current annual fee for a non-executive Director is £45,000 per annum and the Committee chair fee is £7 ,500 per annum. The Chairman’s fee as at the date of this report 
is £140,000 per annum.
n on-executive d irectors’ fees Audited information
Annual fee  
£’000
Committee  
chair fees  
£’000
2010  
Total fees  
£’000
2009  
Total fees  
£’000
J Cox 45 8 53 47
P G Cox
1
15 3 18 53
D A Edmonds 140 – 140 11 3
N England
2
45 4 49 37
Dr W Hasselkus
3
45 – 45 45
P Venables
4
26 – 26 –
1
 Resigned on 23 July 2009.
2
 Appointed Remuneration Committee Chairman on 7 October 2009.
3
 In addition, Dr W Hasselkus received a fee of €25,000 (2009: €25,000) in respect of being Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Wincanton GmbH.
4
 Appointed on 2 September 2009.
n on-executive d irectors’ shareholdin Gs As at 31 March 2010
Opening Purchased Disposed Closing
J Cox 36,589 – – 36,589
P G Cox
1
5,000 – – 5,000
D A Edmonds 35,000 – – 35,000
N England 25,000 – 25,000
Dr W Hasselkus 5,000 – – 5,000
P Venables
2
– 25,000 – 25,000
1
 Resigned on 23 July 2009.
2
 Appointed on 2 September 2009.
The highest and lowest prices of the Company’s shares during the year were 246.5p and 141.75p respectively. The share price at 31 March 2010 was 201.25p.
This Directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board on 9 June 2010 and was signed on its behalf by:
S P Williams
c ompany s ecretary
Methuen Park
Chippenham
Wiltshire SN14 0WT Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   43
Independent Auditors’ report to  
the members of Wincanton plc 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   43 
We have audited the financial statements of Wincanton plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 set out on pages 44 to 79. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that 
we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP. 
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
In our opinion: 
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2010 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended; 
• The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
• The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; 
• The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 
In our opinion: 
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
• The information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 30 to 32 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial 
reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• The parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• A Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• The Directors’ statement, set out on page 28, in relation to going concern; and 
• The part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 30 to 32 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review. 
V Stevens (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
100 Temple Street 
Bristol 
BS1 6AG 
9 June 2010  44   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Consolidated income statement 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 
44   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
Note  
2010  
£m 
2009 
£m
Revenue 2 2,182.9 2,361.3
Share of results of associates 13 0.7 0.1
Total underlying operating profit   54.6 59.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  (11.2) (9.0)
Exceptional restructuring and other costs  3 (20.5) (23.1)
Other exceptional income 3 – 10.8
Operating profit  3 22.9 38.3
Financing income 5 0.9 2.9
Financing cost 5 (20.8) (21.2)
Net financing costs  (19.9) (18.3)
Profit before tax  3.0 20.0
Income tax expense 6 (0.5) (6.0)
Profit for the year  2.5 14.0
Attributable to   
– equity shareholders of Wincanton plc  1.8 13.5
– minority interests  0.7 0.5
Profit for the year  2.5 14.0
 
Earnings per share    
– basic 7 1.6p 11.6p
– diluted 7 1.6p 11.6p
Dividends paid in the year to equity shareholders of Wincanton plc (£m) 8 17.1 17.6
 
 
 
 
 
   Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   45
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   45 
Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit for the year  2.5 14.0
Other comprehensive income  
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (net of deferred tax)  (54.6) (63.4)
Net foreign exchange gain/(loss) on investment in foreign subsidiaries net of hedged items 5 0.9 (0.3)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 1.1 (2.5)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of income tax   (52.6) (66.2)
Total comprehensive expense for the year  (50.1) (52.2)
Attributable to  
– equity shareholders of Wincanton plc  (50.8) (52.7)
– minority interests  0.7 0.5
Total comprehensive expense for the year  (50.1) (52.2)
 
  46   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Consolidated balance sheet 
AT 31 MARCH 2010 
 
 
46   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
 
 
Note 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
restated
£m
Non-current assets   
Goodwill and intangible assets 9 189.5 204.1
Property, plant and equipment 10 237.7 249.1
Investments, including those equity accounted 11 15.0 15.3
Deferred tax assets 15 23.6 3.8
  465.8 472.3
Current assets   
Inventories 16 9.3 8.9
Trade and other receivables 17 363.4 386.3
Cash and cash equivalents 18 96.8 48.3
  469.5 443.5
Current liabilities   
Income tax payable  (6.6) (11.9)
Borrowings 19 (15.4) (12.2)
Trade and other payables 20 (533.6) (520.9)
Employee benefits 26 (10.4) (11.0)
Provisions 21 (26.5) (24.9)
  (592.5) (580.9)
Net current liabilities  (123.0) (137.4)
Total assets less current liabilities  342.8 334.9
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 19 (233.3) (212.5)
Other payables 20 (1.4) (1.5)
Employee benefits 26 (171.9) (112.6)
Provisions 21 (32.1) (37.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 15 (4.1) (4.6)
  (442.8) (368.2)
Net liabilities  (100.0) (33.3)
   
Add back: pension deficit, net of deferred tax 1 132.0 89.6
Net assets before net pension deficit  32.0 56.3
   
Equity   
Issued share capital  12.1 12.1
Share premium  12.2 12.2
Merger reserve  3.5 3.5
Translation reserve  4.3 3.4
Retained earnings  (132.6) (65.1)
Equity deficit attributable to shareholders of Wincanton plc  (100.5) (33.9)
Minority interest  0.5 0.6
Total equity deficit  (100.0) (33.3)
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 June 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
G McFaull     G D Connell 
Chief Executive    Group Finance Director 
 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   47
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
AT 31 MARCH 2010 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   47 
   Retained earnings  
 Note 
Issued share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
IFRS 2 
reserve
£m
Own
 shares
£m
Profit and 
loss 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Minority
interests
£m
Total (equity 
deficit)/ 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 April 2008  12.1 11.9 3.5 3.7 5.9 (14.7) 14.2 36.6 0.4 37.0
Total comprehensive 
 income/(expense)  – – – (0.3) – – (52.4) (52.7) 0.5 (52.2)
Increase in IFRS 2 reserve  – – – – 2.2 – – 2.2 – 2.2
Shares issued  – 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Own shares disposed of on 
 exercise of options  – – – – – 0.3 (0.3) – – –
Own shares acquired  – – – – – (2.7) – (2.7) – (2.7)
Minority interest 
 on acquisition  – – – – – – – – 0.3 0.3
Dividends paid to 
 shareholders 8 – – – – – – (17.6) (17.6) (0.6) (18.2)
Balance at 31 March 2009  12.1 12.2 3.5 3.4 8.1 (17.1) (56.1) (33.9) 0.6 (33.3)
Balance at 1 April 2009  12.1 12.2 3.5 3.4 8.1 (17.1) (56.1) (33.9) 0.6 (33.3)
Total comprehensive 
 income/(expense)  – – – 0.9 – – (51.7) (50.8) 0.7 (50.1)
Increase in IFRS 2 reserve  – – – – 3.3 – – 3.3 – 3.3
Own shares disposed of on 
 exercise of options  – – – – – 0.5 (0.5) – – –
Own shares acquired  – – – – – (2.0) – (2.0) – (2.0)
Dividends paid to 
 shareholders 8 – – – – – – (17.1) (17.1) (0.8) (17.9)
Balance at 31 March 2010  12.1 12.2 3.5 4.3 11.4 (18.6) (125.4) (100.5) 0.5 (100.0)
 
  48   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 
48   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Operating activities  
Profit before tax 3.0 20.0
Adjustments for  
– depreciation and amortisation  49.8 46.3
– interest expense 19.9 18.3
– share of results of associates (0.7) (0.1)
– gain on disposal of subsidiary – (14.4)
– loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (5.5)
– share-based payments fair value charges 3.3 2.2
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 75.4 66.8
Decrease in trade and other receivables 19.6 55.0
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.5) 1.3
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 26.2 (44.3)
Decrease in provisions (4.9) (4.2)
Decrease in employee benefits (21.4) (11.6)
Income taxes paid (3.7) (5.5)
Cash generated from operations 15.3 (9.3)
Cash flows from operating activities 90.7 57.5
 
Investing activities 
 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.1 23.2
Interest received 0.9 2.8
Dividends received from associates 0.1 0.2
Acquisitions net of cash acquired and debt repaid on acquisition (3.0) (58.0)
Additions of property, plant and equipment (32.8) (52.6)
Cash flows from investing activities (31.7) (84.4) 
 
Financing activities 
 
 
Proceeds from the issue of share capital – 0.3
Own shares acquired (2.0) (2.7)
Increase in borrowings 26.2 43.6
Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.3) (1.9)
Dividends paid to minority interest in subsidiary undertakings (0.8) (0.6)
Equity dividends paid (17.1) (17.6)
Interest paid (15.8) (16.4)
Cash flows from financing activities (9.8) 4.7
 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 
49.2 (22.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 48.3 67.4
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.7) 3.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 96.8 48.3
 
Represented by 
 
– cash at bank and in hand 72.6 23.4
– restricted cash, being deposits held by the Group’s captive insurer 24.2 24.9
 96.8 48.3
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   49
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   49 
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
Statement of compliance  
Wincanton plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales. The Group’s 
consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the ’Group’), plus proportionately consolidate the Group’s 
interest in jointly controlled entities and equity account the Group’s interest 
in associates. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the 
Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations, as 
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and by the European 
Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS (Adopted IFRS). 
The following standards or interpretations issued by the IASB or the IFRIC have been 
adopted by the EU but only become effective for accounting periods commencing 
after 31 March 2010: 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised) and IAS 27 (Amendment) Consolidated and 
Separate Financial Statements. The changes introduced by the standards include 
the expensing of acquisition related costs, a greater emphasis on fair value and the 
requirement to remeasure interests at the time when control is achieved or lost. 
The Group will apply IFRS 3 (Revised) and IAS 27 (Amendment) to business 
combinations from 1 April 2010. 
IAS 17 Leases (Amendment). The amendment requires the Group to review the 
classification of leases of land. The reassessment may result in such leases being 
classified as finance leases. The Group will apply IAS 17 (Amendment) from 1 April 2010.  
The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these standards will have a 
significant effect, with the exception of changes to disclosures, on the consolidated 
results or financial position of the Group. 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards; these are presented on pages 75 to 78 and 
present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group. 
Basis of preparation 
The Group and parent Company financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, 
rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. They are prepared on the historical cost 
basis except where assets or liabilities are required to be stated at their fair value. 
The preparation of Group financial statements under Adopted IFRS and parent 
Company financial statements under UK Accounting Standards requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies 
and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates 
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and 
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates. 
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised 
and/or in future periods if applicable. Judgements made by management in the 
application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on the Group financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year 
are discussed in the relevant notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods 
presented in these Group financial statements with the exception of first time 
application of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 1 (Amendment) Presentation of Financial 
Statements: A Revised Presentation, IFRS 2 (Amendment) Share-based Payment: Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations and IAS 23 (Amendment) Borrowing Costs. The adoption 
of these standards has not had a significant effect, with the exception of changes to 
disclosures, on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.  
Prior year comparatives have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3, Business 
Combinations in respect of prior year acquisitions as set out in note 22. 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are set out on pages 5 to 8 and pages 16 to 20, 
which also contain a review of the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities. In addition, note 28 to the financial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Group is reporting net liabilities of £100.0m (2009: net liabilities of £33.3m) primarily 
due to the increase in the pension deficit of £42.4m net of deferred tax in the year. To 
provide greater visibility of the Group’s underlying balance sheet position, net assets 
before the net pension deficit are also shown on the face of the balance sheet. 
The pension obligations and related deferred tax asset are detailed in notes 26 and 
15 to the financial statements respectively.  
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing both the Group and Company financial statements.  
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated Group financial statements include the financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to the balance sheet date. When the 
Company acquired the Wincanton group of companies upon demerger from the 
former parent in May 2001, the changes in group structure were accounted for using 
the principles of merger accounting available under UK GAAP at the time. Businesses 
acquired or disposed of since then have been accounted for using acquisition 
accounting principles from or up to the date control passed. 
On transition to Adopted IFRS Wincanton elected to apply the exemptions under IFRS 1 
neither to restate any pre-transition business combinations under IFRS 3 nor to identify 
the translation differences arising prior to 1 April 2004, and to attribute these to the result 
of any disposals of those entities. Acquisitions post-transition have been accounted for 
under IFRS 3 and any translation differences arising after 1 April 2004 will be separately 
identified and accounted for.  
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group 
has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting 
rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial 
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from or 
up to the date that control passed. 
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not 
control. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the 
comprehensive income of associates on an equity accounted basis, from or up to the 
date that significant influence passes. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its 
interest in an associate, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of 
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate. 
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint 
control, established by contractual agreement. The consolidated financial statements 
include the Group’s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses 
which are included with items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, from or up to 
the date that joint control passes. 
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses 
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and 
jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 
entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only 
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 
Intangible assets 
Goodwill  
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. 
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly 
controlled entities.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, the fair value adjustments relating 
to acquisitions in the prior year are, if applicable, reviewed and revised and these 
adjustments are reflected at the date of acquisition and the prior year balance sheet 
restated accordingly. Details of such adjustments are given in the acquisitions note to 
the consolidated Group financial statements.  50   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
50   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
In respect of acquisitions prior to transition to Adopted IFRS, goodwill is included on the 
basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP. 
Wincanton elected on transition to Adopted IFRS to apply the exemption under IFRS 1 
that the classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred 
prior to 1 April 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing the opening IFRS balance sheet 
at 1 April 2004. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses (see below). Goodwill is allocated to 
cash-generating units and under Adopted IFRS is not amortised but is tested annually 
for impairment (see below). In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is 
included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. 
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets arising under a business combination (acquired intangible assets) are 
capitalised at fair value as determined at the date of acquisition and are stated at that fair 
value less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see below). 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful lives of acquired intangible assets from the date they are acquired 
as follows: 
Customer relationships  6 to 15 years
Software rights 1 to 5 years
Trademarks and logos 1 to 5 years
The cost of computer software purchased or developed in-house which has the 
capacity to generate economic benefits for a period in excess of one year is capitalised 
as an intangible asset. Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the following estimated useful lives: 
Computer software costs 3 to 5 years
Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less 
accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see below). The cost of 
tangible assets includes directly attributable costs, including appropriate commissioning 
costs. The cost of financing the construction of major properties is included in their 
capitalised cost. The interest rate applied represents the actual finance costs incurred 
on the funds borrowed specifically to construct the asset. 
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at deemed cost, being 
an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and 
impairment losses (see below). Lease payments are accounted for as described in the 
accounting policy on expenses. Finance leases are those under the terms of which the 
Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.  
Subsequent expenditure 
The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and 
equipment the costs incurred in replacing part of such an item if it is probable that the 
future economic benefits will flow to the Group and when the cost can be measured 
reliably. All other such costs, including the derecognition of the replaced part of the 
item, are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. Freehold 
land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years
Short leasehold improvements life of lease
Plant and equipment, furniture and fittings 5 to 25 years
Office machinery and computers 3 to 5 years 
Motor vehicles 5 to 10 years
The range of useful economic lives given reflects the fact that assets held for specific 
contracts are depreciated over the lives of those contracts. 
The residual value of tangible assets, if significant, is reassessed annually. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on the 
first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories 
and bringing them to their existing location and condition. Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less selling expenses. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value on initial recognition 
(discounted if material) and subsequently at amortised cost, i.e. less any impairment 
losses (see below). 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, restricted cash and call deposits. 
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management process are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at their fair value on initial recognition (discounted if 
material) and subsequently at amortised cost. 
Foreign currency 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on such translation are 
recognised in the income statement.  
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value 
adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations 
are translated to sterling at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at 
the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are 
recognised directly in a separate component of other comprehensive income. They are 
released into the income statement upon disposal. 
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available in IFRS 1 to deem the 
cumulative translation differences for all investments in foreign operations to be zero at 
1 April 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS.  
Employee benefits  
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. 
The assets of these schemes are held in separate Trustee administered funds 
independent of the Group. The investment strategy of the Trustee and Group is to 
maximise investment returns, with a key area for management attention being to meet 
the Group’s funded defined benefit obligations. In accordance with this strategy certain 
investments are designated at fair value and are accounted for as set out below.  
Defined contribution schemes 
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised 
as an expense in the income statement as incurred. 
Defined benefit schemes 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated 
separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees 
have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is 
discounted to determine the present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is 
deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated 
bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. 
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method. 
When the benefits of a scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit 
relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become 
vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately the expense is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   51
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   51 
All actuarial gains and losses as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, 
have been recognised in equity under the provisions of IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ 
(Revised). Any actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to 1 April 2004 in 
calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised in full through 
other comprehensive income in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to 
the present value of any future refunds from the scheme or reductions in future 
contributions to the scheme. 
Share-based payment transactions 
From 1 April 2004 the Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based 
Payments to the grants of options made under the Executive Share Option, 
Performance Share Plan, Share Match Incentive, Sharesave Option and Deferred Annual 
Bonus schemes. In accordance with the transition provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to 
all grants after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January 2005. 
The Group issues options under equity-settled share-based incentive schemes to 
certain employees which are measured at the date of grant as the fair value of the 
employee services required in exchange for the grant. The fair value determined is 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate 
of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based 
vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured by an external valuer using the Binomial, Monte-Carlo or scenario-
modelling methods as appropriate. The expected life assumptions used in the models 
have been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
A number of shares in the Company are held in trust on behalf of employees who hold 
options under the Group’s equity-settled share-based incentive schemes. Such shares 
are held by an employee benefit trust and are treated as treasury shares and shown in 
the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.  
Other share schemes 
Shares awarded on a matching basis to employees participating in the Company’s 
Share Incentive Plan are purchased at the prevailing market rate and charged to the 
income statement each period as the employee makes an eligible contribution. 
The shares purchased are held in a separately administered offshore trust for the benefit 
of the Plan participants. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows. 
The Group provides for insurance claims on an appropriate discounted basis depending 
on the expected timing of their settlement. Provision is made for the estimated costs 
of claims arising from past events based on the advice of the Group’s external 
insurance advisors.  
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax 
assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. An asset is considered for impairment testing if objective 
evidence indicates that one or more events had a negative effect on the estimated 
future cash flows of the asset. If any such indication exists the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. The two exceptions are dealt with as per the separate applicable 
accounting policy. For trade receivables specific bad debts are provided against unless 
the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the 
amount considered irrecoverable is written off. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in 
the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating 
units are allocated first to reduce the amount of goodwill allocated to the applicable 
cash-generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in 
the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of 
assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets. 
 
Calculation of recoverable amount 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables carried at amortised cost is 
calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the  
original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. Receivables with a short duration  
are not discounted. 
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs 
to sell and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the  
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Reversals of impairment 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. An impairment loss in respect 
of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed only to the extent that the carrying 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no 
impairment loss had been recognised and if the reversal can be related objectively to an 
event occurring after the impairment was recognised. 
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the income statement on the delivery 
of those services based on the proportion of the total delivered at the balance sheet 
date. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.  
Certain distribution contracts oblige the Group to purchase goods from third parties 
and sell them on to the customer at cost. As the Group is rewarded for the physical 
distribution service provided acting only as an agent in these buy/sell transactions, 
and as the sale and purchase of the goods have no impact on the operating profit, the 
amounts invoiced to customers and charged by suppliers for the sale and purchase of 
these goods are excluded from revenue and cost of sales. Trade and other receivables 
and payables relating to such transactions are included in the balance sheet.  
Expenses 
Lease payments 
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in 
the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. 
For finance leases the minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance 
charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to 
each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Net financing costs 
Net financing costs comprise interest payable and other charges less interest income. 
Interest payable on borrowings is calculated using the effective interest rate method. 
Other charges include bank fees, discounts unwound, and losses on hedging 
instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see hedge accounting 
policy below).  
Interest income includes interest receivable on funds invested and gains on hedging 
instruments, and these are recognised in the income statement as they accrue. 
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income 
statement using the constant periodic rate of return method. 
Net financing costs include the expected return on defined benefit pension scheme 
assets less the interest on defined benefit pension scheme obligations. 
Taxation 
Tax on profits or losses for the year comprises current and deferred tax and is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in the relevant 
component. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax 
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.  52   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
52   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for 
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following 
temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and 
differences relating to accumulated profits of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that 
they will probably not be distributed. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on 
the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax 
assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit 
will be realised. 
Operating segments  
Operating segments are identified on the basis of information that internally is provided 
to the Board, which is the Group’s chief operating decision-maker, to allocate capital and 
resources and assess performance. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign 
exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment 
activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments which are accounted for as trading instruments 
are recognised initially and subsequently stated at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant 
gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged (see below). 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would 
receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.  
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance 
sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. 
Upon initial recognition attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income 
statement when incurred.  
Fair value hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair 
value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes 
in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is 
attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised 
cost) and any gains or losses on remeasurement are also recognised immediately 
in the income statement (even if those gains would normally be recognised directly 
in reserves). 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation 
Where a foreign currency liability hedges a net investment in a foreign operation, 
foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the liability are recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income. Any ineffective position is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. 
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the 
foreign operation is disposed of. 
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities 
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to economically hedge the foreign 
exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting 
is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the 
income statement. 
Interest-bearing borrowings 
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable 
transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are 
stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective 
interest basis. Interest-bearing borrowings which are designated hedged items in a fair 
value hedge arrangement are carried at fair value (see policy above). 
Dividends 
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are declared, approved, or paid. 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   53
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   53 
2. OPERATING SEGMENTS 
Wincanton plc provides contract logistics services. The Group manages its operations in two geographic operating segments, comprised of United Kingdom & Ireland and Mainland 
Europe. The results of these two operating segments are regularly reviewed by the Board to allocate resources to these segments and to assess their performance. The Group 
evaluates performance of the operating segments on the basis of underlying operating profit. 
UK & Ireland Mainland Europe Consolidated
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue from external customers
1
 1,326.4 1,455.5 856.5 905.8 2,182.9 2,361.3
Inter-segment revenues
2
 – 1.7 1.0 0.8 1.0 2.5
Depreciation  (27.4) (25.8) (9.8) (9.7) (37.2) (35.5)
Amortisation of software intangibles (0.5) (0.7) (0.9) (1.1) (1.4) (1.8)
Share of results of associates 0.6 – 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.1
Reportable segment underlying operating profit
3
 48.4 52.5 6.2 7.1 54.6 59.6
Reportable segment assets
4, 5
 351.1 376.6 276.3 285.2 627.4 661.8
Other assets   307.9 254.0
Total Group assets   935.3 915.8
Investment in associates  11 14.2 14.4 0.4 0.5 14.6 14.9
Additions to reportable segment non-current assets   
– property, plant and equipment 10 21.9 27.7 8.5 24.9 30.4 52.6
– goodwill and intangible assets 9 0.1 – 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7
Reportable segment liabilities
5
 (360.6) (337.4) (194.5) (210.6) (555.1) (548.0)
Other liabilities   (480.2) (401.1)
Total Group liabilities   (1,035.3) (949.1)
1 
Revenues are based on the geographic location of the business operations. Included in the UK & Ireland segment revenue is £1,280.8m (2009: £1,407.7m) in respect of customers based in the UK and in the 
Mainland Europe segment £566.1m (2009: £596.9m) in respect of customers based in Germany.  
2
 The Group accounts for inter-segment sales on commercial terms. 
3
 Underlying operating profit includes the share of results of associates and is stated before amortisation of acquired intangibles and any goodwill impairment and exceptionals. 
4
 Reportable segment assets includes non-current assets of £0.3m (2009: £0.8m) for the UK, £1.3m (2009: £1.3m) for Germany, and £1.7m (2009: £1.4m) for Mainland Europe overall. 
5
 Reportable segment assets and liabilities comprise total assets and total liabilities adjusted for goodwill, acquired intangibles, debt, tax, employee benefits and insurance provisions, such that the net of 
segment assets and liabilities is equal to the capital employed definition used by the Group in calculating return on capital employed. The reconciling other assets and other liabilities in the table above 
comprise, as applicable, the same adjusting items. 
3. OPERATING PROFIT 
 2010 2009
 
Underlying
1
£m 
Amortisation of  
acquired  
intangibles and  
exceptionals
2
£m 
Total
£m
Underlying
1
 
£m  
Amortisation of  
acquired  
intangibles and  
exceptionals
2
£m 
 
Total
£m
Revenue 2,182.9 – 2,182.9 2,361.3  – 2,361.3
Cost of sales (2,100.0) (20.5) (2,120.5) (2,273.9)  (9.3) (2,283.2)
Gross profit 82.9 (20.5) 62.4 87.4  (9.3) 78.1
Administrative expenses (29.0) (11.2) (40.2) (27.9)  (12.0) (39.9)
Share of results of associates 0.7 – 0.7 0.1  – 0.1
Operating profit 54.6 (31.7) 22.9 59.6  (21.3) 38.3
1
 Underlying operating profit includes the share of results of associates, and is stated before amortisation of acquired intangibles and any goodwill impairment and exceptionals. 
2
 Comprises the amortisation of acquired intangibles, exceptional restructuring and other costs and other exceptional income.  54   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
54   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
3. OPERATING PROFIT (CONTINUED) 
 Note 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Operating profit before net financing costs is stated after charging:   
Auditors’ remuneration   
Audit fees for statutory audit services   
– parent company and consolidation  0.1 0.1
– subsidiary undertakings  0.7 0.7
Non-audit fees   
– fees paid to the Auditors and their associates for tax advisory services  0.3 0.2
– fees paid to the Auditors and their associates for assurance services  0.1 0.1
– fees paid to the Auditors and their associates for other services  0.1 0.2
Depreciation and other impairment amounts written off property, plant and equipment   
– owned 10 34.4 32.9
– leased 10 2.8 2.6
Amortisation and other amounts written off software intangibles 9 1.4 1.8
Operating lease rentals   
– plant and equipment  45.2 54.3
– land and buildings  82.9 78.8
Exceptionals 
  
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Exceptional restructuring and other costs   
Costs of acquisitions and post-acquisition reorganisation of operating structures  (0.7) (3.0)
Closure and restructuring of operations   
– UK & Ireland  (4.9) (9.3)
– Mainland Europe  (14.9) (8.7)
Under-recovery of amounts owing by Woolworths plc  – (2.1)
  (20.5) (23.1)
Other exceptional income   
Property profits – sale of freehold land and buildings  – 5.2
Partial settlement of the PGN Logistics Ltd arbitration case 14 – 5.6
  – 10.8
Costs and incomes are included as exceptionals where they are non-recurring and where not to do so would distort the reported underlying profit performance of the Group. 
4. PERSONNEL EXPENSES, INCLUDING DIRECTORS 
 Note 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Wages and salaries  703.4 713.8
Share-based payments (including IFRS 2 fair value charges)  4.3 2.0
Social security contributions  91.5 91.1
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 26 9.5 9.0
Service costs of defined benefit pension schemes 26 12.1 16.1
  820.8 832.0
 
 2010 2009
Average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year 27,840 29,050
Directors’ emoluments 
 
2010 
£’000 
2009
£’000
Salaries 1,135 1,121
Bonuses 181 –
Other benefits 60 57
Non-executive Directors’ fees 331 333
Total emoluments 1,707 1,511
Full details of each individual Director’s emoluments, bonuses deferred in shares, share options and pension entitlements are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on  
pages 33 to 42.   Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   55
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   55 
5. NET FINANCING COSTS 
Recognised in the income statement 
 Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interest income  0.9 2.9
  0.9 2.9
Interest expense  (12.0) (15.4)
Finance charges payable in respect of finance leases  (1.2) (1.4)
Unwinding of discount on insurance and other provisions 21 (2.2) (3.4)
Interest on defined benefit pension scheme obligations 26 (36.5) (37.2)
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 26 31.1 36.0
  (20.8) (21.4)
Less: finance costs capitalised  – 0.2
  (20.8) (21.2)
Net financing costs  (19.9) (18.3)
The interest income relates primarily to the deposits held by the Group’s captive insurer. 
Recognised in other comprehensive income 
  
2010
£m
2009
£m
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations  0.9 (0.3)
  0.9 (0.3)
Recognised in:  
Translation reserve  0.9 (0.3)
  0.9 (0.3)
6. INCOME TAX EXPENSE 
Recognised in the income statement 
  
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current tax expense  
Current year  4.0 6.2
Adjustments for prior years  (4.5) 0.1
  (0.5) 6.3
Deferred tax expense  
Current year  1.1 (0.3)
Adjustments for prior years  (0.1) –
  1.0 (0.3)
Total income tax expense   0.5 6.0
 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate  
 
Profit before tax  3.0 20.0
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 0.8 5.6
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions  (0.6) (0.3)
Trading losses not recognised  3.2 1.4
Non-deductible expenditure  1.2 0.5
Capital profits offset by capital losses  – (1.3)
Other  0.5 –
Adjustments for prior years  
– current tax  (4.5) 0.1
– deferred tax  (0.1) –
Total tax charge for the year  0.5 6.0
 
Recognised in other comprehensive income 
 
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes  21.3 24.8
Income tax relating to other components  1.1 (2.5)
  22.4 22.3
Income tax relating to other components includes £1.1m (2009: £(1.8)m) on foreign exchange movements. The prior years adjustment to current tax expense includes a credit of 
£4.7m (2009: £nil) arising from the agreement of the tax treatment of a long-running prior years item.  56   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
56   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
7. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Earnings per share are calculated on the basis of earnings attributable to the equity shareholders of Wincanton plc of £1.8m (2009: £13.5m) and the weighted average of 114.6m 
(2009: 116.0m) shares which have been in issue throughout the year. The diluted earnings per share are calculated on the basis of no additional shares (2009: 0.2m) deemed to be 
issued at £nil consideration under the Company’s share option schemes. The weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted earnings per share are 
calculated as follows: 
  
2010 
millions 
2009
millions
Weighted average number of ordinary shares   
Issued ordinary shares at the beginning of the year  115.3 116.5
Net effect of shares issued and purchased during the year  (0.7) (0.5)
  114.6 116.0
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)   
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at the end of the year  114.6 116.0
Effect of share options on issue  – 0.2
  114.6 116.2
An alternative earnings per share number is set out below, being before amortisation of acquired intangibles and any impairment of goodwill and exceptionals plus related tax, 
since the Directors consider that this provides further information on the underlying performance of the Group: 
 
2010 
pence 
2009
pence
Underlying earnings per share   
– basic  20.9 24.7
– diluted  20.9 24.7
Underlying earnings are determined as follows: 
 Note 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Wincanton plc  1.8 13.5
Exceptional restructuring and other costs 3 20.5 23.1
Other exceptional income 3 – (10.8)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 9 11.2 9.0
Tax   (9.5) (6.1)
Underlying earnings  24.0 28.7
8. DIVIDENDS  
Under Adopted IFRS dividends are only provided in the financial statements when they become a liability of the Company. The dividends per ordinary share paid in the year are the 
interim for the current year, paid on 5 January 2010, and the final for the year ended 31 March 2009, paid on 7 August 2009. 
These are detailed in the following table: 
  
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Interim dividend of 4.83p (2009: 4.83p) paid in January 2010 and 2009 respectively  5.5 5.6
Final dividend of 10.08p for 2009 (2008: 10.31p) paid in August 2009 and 2008 respectively  11.6 12.0
Total dividend paid in the year  17.1 17.6
The final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2010 is 10.08p, which if approved will be paid on 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register on 9 July 2010, 
total £11.5m. 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   57
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   57 
9. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Goodwill
restated
£m
Acquired 
intangibles 
£m 
Computer 
software costs
£m
Total
restated
£m
Cost  
At 1 April 2008 97.8 54.6 23.9 176.3
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 8.2 3.4 1.9 13.5
Additions – – 0.7 0.7
Acquisitions and fair value adjustments 26.9 34.3 0.1 61.3
Disposals – – (1.2) (1.2)
At 31 March 2009 132.9 92.3 25.4 250.6
At 1 April 2009 132.9 92.3 25.4 250.6
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (2.5) (1.0) (0.5) (4.0)
Additions  – – 0.8 0.8
Disposals – – (7.1) (7.1)
At 31 March 2010 130.4 91.3 18.6 240.3
Amortisation and impairment losses  
At 1 April 2008 (2.6) (10.5) (20.5) (33.6)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (0.1) (1.1) (1.7) (2.9)
Charge for year – (9.0) (1.8) (10.8)
Disposals – – 0.8 0.8
At 31 March 2009 (2.7) (20.6) (23.2) (46.5)
At 1 April 2009 (2.7) (20.6) (23.2) (46.5)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 0.3 0.3 0.6
Charge for year – (11.2) (1.4) (12.6)
Disposals – – 7.7 7.7
At 31 March 2010 (2.7) (31.5) (16.6) (50.8)
Carrying value  
At 1 April 2008 95.2 44.1 3.4 142.7
At 31 March 2009 and 1 April 2009 130.2 71.7 2.2 204.1
At 31 March 2010 127.7 59.8 2.0 189.5
The amortisation charges above of £12.6m (2009: £10.8m) are recognised in the income statement within cost of sales £0.2m (2009: £0.6m) and administrative expenses £1.2m 
(2009: £1.2m) in respect of the computer software costs and as a separate line in respect of acquired intangibles (note 3). The carrying value of acquired intangibles relates entirely to 
customer relationships £59.8m (2009: £71.7m). 
Impairment tests for goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU’s) which are currently subdivisions of the reported operating segments as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
restated
£m
UK & Ireland 
– Containers 20.2 20.2
– rest of UK & Ireland 57.2 57.5
 77.4 77.7
Mainland Europe 
– Western Europe 18.6 19.3
– rest of Mainland Europe 31.7 33.2
 50.3 52.5
 127.7 130.2
During the year, the Defence and Construction CGU’s have been fully integrated into the existing UK & Ireland business, hence separate identification of future results and cash flows 
is no longer practicable. 
  58   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
58   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
9. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED) 
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations are cash flow projections based on the financial budgets and forecasts 
approved by the Board for the forthcoming financial year and beyond. Cash flows beyond those 12 and further 48-month periods are extrapolated to perpetuity using the 
estimated growth rates and underlying inflation rates stated below, which do not exceed the long-term average growth and inflation rates in the specific geographical areas where 
the CGU operates. 
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations: 
 
Containers
%
rest of  
UK &  
Ireland  
% 
Western  
Europe 
% 
rest of 
Mainland 
Europe 
%
Estimated growth rate 2.3 2.3 1.8 1.6
Underlying inflation rate 1.9 1.9 1.7 1.8
Discount rate 11.7 11.7 11.7 11.7
Management determined the growth rates and underlying inflation rates based on expectations for market development and these are consistent with external forecasts and 
historical trends. The discount rates are pre-tax and reflect the relevant risks. 
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Property 
£m 
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 April 2008 147.0 245.4 392.4
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 9.8 14.1 23.9
Additions 7.8 44.8 52.6
Acquisitions and fair value adjustments  0.8 7.1 7.9
Disposals (11.2) (38.3) (49.5)
At 31 March 2009 154.2 273.1 427.3
At 1 April 2009 154.2 273.1 427.3
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.3 (2.9) (2.6)
Additions 1.8 28.6 30.4
Disposals (2.7) (48.8) (51.5)
At 31 March 2010 153.6 250.0 403.6
Depreciation and impairment losses   
At 1 April 2008 (36.9) (124.5) (161.4)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange (3.3) (10.2) (13.5)
Charge for year (5.1) (30.4) (35.5)
Disposals 1.4 30.8 32.2
At 31 March 2009 (43.9) (134.3) (178.2)
At 1 April 2009 (43.9) (134.3) (178.2)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.4 1.4 1.8
Charge for year (5.4) (31.8) (37.2)
Disposals 2.4 45.3 47.7
At 31 March 2010 (46.5) (119.4) (165.9)
Carrying amount   
At 1 April 2008 110.1 120.9 231.0
At 31 March 2009 and 1 April 2009 110.3 138.8 249.1
At 31 March 2010 107.1 130.6 237.7
Included in the total carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is £17.4m (2009: £18.0m) in respect of assets held under finance leases, and in cost is £2.2m (2009: £2.9m) in 
respect of capitalised finance costs.  
The carrying amount of property comprises:  
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Freehold 65.5 64.6
Short leasehold 41.6 45.7
 107.1 110.3 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   59
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   59 
11. INVESTMENTS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Group non-current investments 
Unlisted trade investments 0.4 0.4
Equity accounted associates 14.6 14.9
 15.0 15.3
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES 
The significant subsidiaries in the Wincanton group of companies, based on the scale of their activities, are as follows: 
 Principal activity % of equity held  Country of incorporation
Wincanton Holdings Limited  Contract logistics services 100  England and Wales
Wincanton Group Limited  Contract logistics services 100  England and Wales
Wincanton International Limited
1
 Intermediate holding company 100  England and Wales
Wincanton UK Limited
1
 Intermediate holding company 100  England and Wales
Wincanton Ireland Limited Contract logistics services 100  Republic of Ireland
Risk Underwriting (Guernsey) Limited Captive insurer 100  Guernsey
Wincanton GmbH Contract logistics services 100  Germany
Rhenania Intermodal Transport GmbH Contract logistics services 100  Germany
Wincanton S.A.S. Contract logistics services 100  France
Wincanton Mondia S.A. Contract logistics services 100  France
Wincanton B.V. Contract logistics services 100  The Netherlands
Rhinecontainer B.V. Contract logistics services 74  The Netherlands
Wincanton Polska Sp. z.o.o. Contract logistics services 100  Poland
Wincanton Magyarország Logisztikai Kft Contract logistics services 100  Hungary
Wincanton Czeska republika s.r.o. Contract logistics services 100  Czech Republic
Wincanton A.G. Contract logistics services 100  Switzerland
1
 Direct subsidiaries of Wincanton plc. 
13. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 
Summary financial information for associates (100%). 
Year ended 31 March 2010 
Country of 
incorporation 
% of ordinary 
equity held
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Equity 
£m 
Revenue
£m
Result
£m
Culina Logistics Limited 
England and 
Wales 20.0 120.4 (50.1) 70.3 177.5 3.3
Rhine-Ro-Ro Service BV The Netherlands 33.3 0.8 (0.3) 0.5 2.8 0.1
OMYA Weil GmbH Germany 26.0 0.7 (0.2) 0.5 – –
Neuss Trimodal GmbH Germany 25.0 2.1 (1.3) 0.8 7.9 0.2
  124.0 (51.9) 72.1 188.2 3.6
Share of results of associates   0.7
Year ended 31 March 2009 
Country of 
incorporation 
% of ordinary 
equity held
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Equity 
£m 
Revenue
£m
Result
£m
Culina Logistics Limited 
England and 
Wales 20.0 100.5 (30.5) 70.0 – –
Rhine-Ro-Ro Service BV The Netherlands 33.3 1.0 (0.3) 0.7 1.1 0.3
OMYA Weil GmbH Germany 26.0 0.7 (0.2) 0.5 – –
Neuss Trimodal GmbH Germany 25.0 1.9 (1.2) 0.7 1.5 0.1
Other Germany  – – – 0.1 –
  104.1 (32.2) 71.9 2.7 0.4
Share of results of associates   0.1 60   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
60   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
14. INTERESTS IN JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES 
The Group has the following significant interests in jointly controlled entities: 
 Principal activity % of equity held Country of incorporation
PGN Logistics Limited Contract logistics services 50 England and Wales
Fenthol & Sandtmann GmbH Contract logistics services 50 Germany
Weckerle Spedition & Logistik GmbH Contract logistics services 50 Germany
Rhenania Wormser Lagerhaus und Speditions AG Contract logistics services 50 Germany
Included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group are the following amounts in respect of the Group’s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and 
expenses of jointly controlled entities: 
 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m
Non-current assets 6.7 6.5
Current assets 8.9 8.0
Current liabilities  (8.8) (6.0)
Non-current liabilities (4.5) (4.0)
Net assets 2.3 4.5
Revenue 50.4 44.9
Operating (loss)/profit (0.7) 1.2
Net financing costs (0.2) (0.3)
Income tax expense (0.1) (0.3)
(Loss)/profit for the year (1.0) 0.6
15. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 
 Assets Liabilities  Net
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Property, plant and equipment (2.8) (5.9) (4.4) (4.3) (7.2) (10.2)
Employee benefits 0.2 – – – 0.2 –
Pension provisions 40.0 24.1 2.1 1.1 42.1 25.2
Other deferred tax assets 1.8 3.0 2.2 – 4.0 3.0
Other deferred tax liabilities
1
 (15.6) (17.4) (4.0) (1.4) (19.6) (18.8)
 23.6 3.8 (4.1) (4.6) 19.5 (0.8)
1
 Other deferred tax liabilities consist primarily of deferred tax on the acquired intangibles. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Deferred tax asset on losses carried forward 32.9 28.7
 32.9 28.7
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of losses carried forward due to the uncertainty of their utilisation. 
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the current year 
At
1 April 2009
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m 
Other 
movements 
£m 
At
31 March 2010
£m
Property, plant and equipment (10.2) 3.0 – (7.2)
Employee benefits – 0.2 – 0.2
Pension provisions 25.2 (4.4) 21.3 42.1
Other deferred tax assets 3.0 1.0 – 4.0
Other deferred tax liabilities (18.8) (0.8) – (19.6)
 (0.8) (1.0) 21.3 19.5 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   61
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   61 
16. INVENTORIES 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials and consumables 9.3 8.9
 9.3 8.9
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade receivables 263.9 284.5
Less: provision for doubtful debts (6.0) (6.4)
Net trade receivables  257.9 278.1
Other receivables 10.8 7.1
Prepayments and accrued income 94.7 101.1
 363.4 386.3
All receivables are due within one year, except for other receivables of £7.8m (2009: £5.2m) in respect of amounts recoverable from customers and others under contracts of more 
than one year, and prepayments and accrued income of £0.2m (2009: £0.3m).  
Movement in the provision for doubtful debts 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 April 6.4 4.8
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – 0.4
Impairment losses recognised on receivables 2.2 2.3
Amounts written off as uncollectable (0.9) (0.8)
Impairment losses reversed (1.7) (0.3)
At 31 March 6.0 6.4
Ageing of trade receivables and the associated provision for doubtful debts at the balance sheet date 
2010 2009
Gross
£m
Provision 
£m 
Gross
£m
Provision
£m
Current 234.3 (0.1) 247.4 (0.1)
1 month overdue 12.4 – 16.4 (0.1)
2 months overdue 2.8 (0.5) 3.9 (0.1)
3+ months overdue 14.4 (5.4) 16.8 (6.1)
 263.9 (6.0) 284.5 (6.4)
The standard period of credit on sales is up to 30 days in the UK & Ireland and 30 – 60 days in Mainland Europe. Interest is chargeable on overdue amounts. The Group only provides 
for doubtful debts where, in the opinion of management, the amount is no longer recoverable. The amount of the provision is management’s estimate of the irrecoverable amount.  
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 72.6 23.4
Restricted cash deposits held by the Group’s captive insurer 24.2 24.9
Cash and cash equivalents  96.8 48.3
Details of the Group’s treasury policies are set out in note 28.  62   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
62   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
19. BORROWINGS 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Current  
Bank loans and overdrafts 8.9 9.3
Finance lease liabilities 6.5 2.9
 15.4 12.2
Non-current  
Bank loans
1
 224.3 198.9
Finance lease liabilities 9.0 13.6
 233.3 212.5
1
 Bank loans include the US$ private placement as swapped into sterling and euro (see below). 
The Group’s finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 
 2010 2009
 
Minimum lease 
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Principal
£m
Minimum lease 
payments 
£m 
Interest 
£m 
Principal
£m
Less than 1 year 7.8 (1.3) 6.5 3.9 (1.0) 2.9
Between 1 and 5 years 8.8 (2.2) 6.6 16.3 (4.1) 12.2
Over 5 years 4.5 (2.1) 2.4 3.6 (2.2) 1.4
 21.1 (5.6) 15.5 23.8 (7.3) 16.5
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments on finance leases only: 
At 31 March 2010 
 
Carrying amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
Less than 
1 year 
£m 
Between  
1 and 5 years 
£m 
Over 5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Bank loans and overdrafts 102.4 102.4 8.9 92.1 1.4
Unsecured bond issues – US$ private placement
1
 137.7 122.8 – 63.0 59.8
Finance leases 15.5 21.1 7.8 8.8 4.5
Trade and other payables 535.0 535.0 533.6 1.4 –
Derivative financial liabilities   
US$/GBP fixed to floating swap – asset
1
 (137.7) (122.8) – (63.0) (59.8)
US$/GBP fixed to floating swap – liability 36.3 36.3 – – 36.3
GBP/euro floating swap
1
 94.5 94.5 – 71.8 22.7
 783.7 789.3 550.3 174.1 64.9
At 31 March 2009 
 
Carrying amount
restated
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
restated
£m
Less than 
1 year 
restated 
£m 
Between  
1 and 5 years 
£m 
Over 5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Bank loans and overdrafts 94.9 94.9 9.3 84.1 1.5
Unsecured bond issues – US$ private placement
1
 117.9 105.6 – 66.9 38.7
Finance leases 16.5 23.8 3.9 16.3 3.6
Trade and other payables 522.4 522.4 520.9 1.5 –
Derivative financial liabilities   
US$/GBP fixed to floating swap – asset
1
 (117.9) (105.6) – (66.9) (38.7)
US$/GBP fixed to floating swap – liability 14.5 14.5 – – 14.5
GBP/euro floating swap
1
 98.8 98.8 – 75.1 23.7
 747.1 754.4 534.1 177.0 43.3
1
 Contractual cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the year end exchange rate. Carrying amounts are stated at fair value. 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   63
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   63 
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
 
2010
£m
2009
restated
£m
Current 
Trade payables 201.2 206.2
Other taxes and social security 54.1 37.8
Other payables 50.4 66.6
Accruals and deferred income 227.9 210.3
 533.6 520.9
Non-current 
Other payables 1.4 1.5
 1.4 1.5
21. PROVISIONS  
Insurance 
£m 
Other
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2009 36.2 25.7 61.9
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (0.5) (0.5)
Provisions used during the year (7.9) (10.0) (17.9)
Unwinding of discount  1.6 0.6 2.2
Provisions made during the year 8.6 4.3 12.9
At 31 March 2010 38.5 20.1 58.6
  
Current  13.9 12.6 26.5
Non-current 24.6 7.5 32.1
 38.5 20.1 58.6
The other provisions are held primarily in respect of leasehold property liabilities. They are determined by management as the best estimate of the expected costs of empty and 
under-utilised properties and are utilised over the relevant lease terms.  
The Group owns 100% of the share capital of a captive insurer which insures certain of the risks of the Group. The insurance provisions in the above table are held in respect of 
outstanding insurance claims, the majority of which are expected to be paid within one to seven years. The discount unwinding arises primarily on the employers’ liability policy 
which is discounted over a period of seven years at a rate based on the Bank of England base rate.  
The assets of the captive insurer consist of cash deposits held with various banks, typically varying between three and 12 months maturity. 
22. ACQUISITIONS 
Current year acquisitions 
There have been no acquisitions in the current year. 
Prior year acquisitions 
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Group increased its shareholding in Wincanton Intermodal Kehl GmbH and Kehler Lagerhaus Verwaltung GmbH, from 50% to 51.15% 
for a nominal amount. The Group also acquired the entire share capital of Product Support (Holdings) Limited (PSHL), CEL Group Limited (CEL) and ELI-Transport GmbH and  
ELI-Lagerhaus GmbH (ELI). These entities were acquired for £14.7m, £17.8m and €12.7m in cash respectively, with up to a further £3.0m and €3.0m contingent pending the  
‘earn-out’ performance of PSHL and ELI respectively and £4.5m contingent on revenue generated by CEL.  
  64   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
64   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
22. ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED) 
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations the Group has reviewed the provisional fair value adjustments during the year ended 31 March 2010. As a result amendments 
have been made and in line with IFRS 3 they have been reflected at the date of acquisition and the prior year balance sheet restated accordingly. These amendments are set out in 
the following acquisition table: 
 As reported at 31 March 2009  
 Note
Acquirees’
book value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Acquisition 
amounts 
£m 
Revisions to 
fair value 
adjustments 
£m 
Restated 
acquisition 
amounts
£m
Intangible assets 9 0.1 34.3 34.4 – 34.4
Property, plant and equipment 10 9.2 (1.3) 7.9 – 7.9
Deferred tax assets – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Inventories 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Trade and other receivables 14.3 (0.7) 13.6 – 13.6
Cash and cash equivalents 9.4 – 9.4 – 9.4
Income tax payable (0.5) – (0.5) – (0.5)
Borrowings (21.4) – (21.4) – (21.4)
Trade and other payables (12.7) (0.3) (13.0) 0.2 (12.8)
Employee benefits (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) – (0.3)
Provisions (0.1) (1.3) (1.4) – (1.4)
Deferred tax liabilities (0.7) (9.7) (10.4) – (10.4)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities (2.1) 21.3 19.2 0.2 19.4
Goodwill on acquisition 31.9 (5.0) 26.9
Minority interest on acquisition (0.2) – (0.2)
Consideration payable, including expenses of £1.0m 50.9 (4.8) 46.1
Cash acquired and debt repaid on acquisition 12.0 – 12.0
 62.9 (4.8) 58.1
Less: contingent consideration (7.8) 4.8 (3.0)
Net cash outflow 55.1 – 55.1
 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   65
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   65 
23. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Share capital  
 Ordinary shares
 
2010
millions
2009
millions
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
In issue at 1 April 121.4 121.3
Issued for cash – 0.1
In issue at 31 March 121.4 121.4
The above issued shares differ from those in note 7 as a result of the inclusion in the above total of the shares held by the Group within an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) (see below), 
and also the effect of weighting for the purpose of the earnings per share calculations. 
At 31 March 2010 the authorised share capital comprised 159,999,980 (2009: 159,999,980) ordinary shares of 10p each. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank 
equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. In respect of the Company’s shares that are held by the EBT (see below), all rights are suspended until these shares are reissued. 
During the year no shares (2009: 114,832) were issued under any share based payment schemes. During the year ended 31 March 2002, the Company established a Capital 
Redemption Reserve of £49,998 on redemption of redeemable preference shares. 
Merger reserve 
The merger reserve arose from the original acquisition of the then Wincanton group of companies by Wincanton plc, on the demerger from the previous parent in May 2001, which 
was accounted for under merger accounting principles. 
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as from the translation of 
liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries. 
IFRS 2 reserve 
Since 1 April 2004, the IFRS 2 reserve comprises the charges made to the income statement in respect of share-based payments under the Group’s equity compensation schemes. 
Own shares 
The own shares reserve comprises the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group within an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) established in Jersey and managed on its behalf by 
independent trustees. At 31 March 2010, the number of the Company’s shares held by the Group had increased to 7,109,385 (2009: 6,105,647) due to the purchase of further shares 
in the Company less the settlement of options exercised. The EBT has waived the right to receive dividends in respect of these shares. The average cost of the shares held is 261p 
each (2009: 279p) and at 31 March 2010, the market value of the shares held was £14.3m (2009: £10.0m). 
All of the shares in the EBT are held in respect of the Group’s various equity compensation schemes (see note 27) and at 31 March 2010 there were 5,468,849 (2009: 4,010,086) shares 
held in respect of vested options.  
  66   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
66   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
24. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
Capital commitments for the Group at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made, are as follows: 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Contracted 3.6 7.8
 3.6 7.8
25. OPERATING LEASES 
Leases as lessee 
The Group leases warehousing facilities, commercial vehicles and other logistics equipment for use in its operations. Typical lease periods for new warehouse rental contracts are 
between 5 and 15 years although older rental contracts are for longer periods with intervening break clauses. The average period for vehicles and equipment is 4 years. The amounts 
charged to the income statement in the current and prior years are given in note 3. 
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are detailed in the following table: 
2010 2009
Plant and
 equipment
£m
Land and 
 buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
 equipment 
£m 
Land and
 buildings
£m
Leases expiring in:    
Less than 1 year 42.2 79.2 44.1 82.5
Between 1 and 5 years 54.7 177.9 57.6 210.9
More than 5 years 3.7 240.3 2.8 246.3
 100.6 497.4 104.5 539.7
Wherever possible these commitments are mitigated through contractual commitments from customers for whom the properties are occupied and/or vehicles and plant are 
rented. The degree of mitigation can be banded according to the nature of the contract between the Group and its customers. This includes ‘back-to-back’ leases which are fully 
underwritten by customers throughout the life of the lease and multi-user locations where, although there is no specific matching of lease and contract terms, there are varying 
degrees of contract backing and therefore mitigation is spread across a number of customers.  
A summary of leases by customer contract type is shown in the following table: 
2010 2009
Plant and
 equipment
£m
Land and 
 buildings 
£m 
Plant and 
 equipment 
£m 
Land and
 buildings
£m
Contractually underwritten by customers (‘back-to-back’) 37.6 65.2 38.8 79.5
Underwritten by customers during contract term, but where the period of the lease extends 
beyond the current maturity of the customer contract 4.8 41.1 5.1 50.5
Multi-user locations where mitigation is spread across a number of customers 33.5 304.1 35.3 321.0
Leases with lower or no mitigation 24.7 87.0 25.3 88.7
 100.6 497.4 104.5 539.7 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   67
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   67 
26. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
The employee benefit liabilities of the Group consist primarily of the post-retirement obligations of the Group’s pension arrangements. In addition, certain employment contracts of 
employees in the Group give rise to holiday pay obligations which are deferred at the accounting year end due to the relative timing of the annual holiday year. These two elements 
are analysed in the table below and the pension arrangements discussed in detail: 
 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Holiday pay 8.2 8.8
Pension schemes (see below) 174.1 114.8
 182.3 123.6
These employee benefits are split as follows: 
Current 10.4 11.0
Non-current 171.9 112.6
 182.3 123.6
Pension schemes 
Employees of Wincanton participated in both funded and unfunded pension arrangements in the UK, Ireland and in Mainland Europe during the year ended 31 March 2010, details 
of which are given below.  
The principal Wincanton Scheme in the UK (the Scheme) is a funded arrangement which has three defined benefit sections and two defined contribution sections, called the 
Wincanton Retirement Savings Section and the Wincanton Pension Builder Plan. The employees of Wincanton Ireland Limited are eligible to participate in a separate funded defined 
contribution scheme. Assets of these pension arrangements are held in separate Trustee administered funds independent of Wincanton. A small number of senior employees, who 
were subject to the statutory earnings cap on pensionable earnings prior to 6 April 2006, are entitled to participate in an unfunded unapproved arrangement in addition to accruing 
benefits from the Scheme. The unfunded unapproved arrangement generally aims to supplement the benefits payable under the Scheme so as to produce (when added to 
benefits from the Scheme) benefits that would otherwise be payable from the Scheme had they not been subject to the maximum permitted earnings as provided by HMRC 
before 6 April 2006 and as continued by a deed executed by the Trustees of the Scheme on 23 March 2006. The pension cost in relation to this arrangement plus the defined 
benefit sections of the Scheme is assessed in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary using the projected unit method.  
The last formal valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2008 by the Scheme actuary, Hymans Robertson, and agreed between the Trustees and the Group in June 
2009. As a result, the Group, in consultation with the Scheme actuary also agreed with the Trustees further measures to address both the actuarial past service deficit and the level 
of future service cost of the Scheme. Accordingly the Group increased the additional cash contribution it makes to the Scheme, to address the past service deficit, to £12.0m 
(2009: £8m) and agreed this would increase each year by RPI. 
In the year commencing 1 April 2010, the Group contributions are expected to be approximately £29.5m, including the increased incremental cash contribution of £12.4m. 
Contributions are made to a number of smaller pension arrangements for employees elsewhere in Mainland Europe, and Wincanton has assumed liability for certain historic 
unfunded pension obligations of the German business which closed to future service in the 1980s. The pension charge in respect of this arrangement represents interest on 
the unfunded obligations. 
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes of the Group are calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits and are set out in the tables below. 
The calculations under IAS 19 are based on actuarial assumptions which are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible assumptions about the long-term future which, 
unless by chance, will not necessarily be borne out in practice. The fair value of the assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term, may be subject to significant 
change before they are realised, and the present value of the liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are thus inherently uncertain. 
 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations (38.2) (34.9)
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (696.9) (488.9)
Fair value of Scheme assets 561.0 409.0
Net pension scheme obligations recognised (174.1) (114.8)
The movement in the above net pension scheme obligations in the year was the result of a decrease in the corporate bond yields and increased inflation. This was offset by an 
increase in the market value of assets during the year, inclusive of the further additional cash contributions being made. The net pension scheme obligations, after taking into 
account the related deferred tax asset, are £132.0m (2009: £89.6m).  68   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
68   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
26. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONTINUED) 
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
2010 2009
Wincanton
Scheme 
£m
Unfunded 
arrangements 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Total
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation 488.9 34.9 523.8 546.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (1.2) (1.2) 4.5
Current service cost 11.1 1.0 12.1 16.1
Interest cost 34.6 1.9 36.5 37.2
Actuarial losses/(gains) 190.4 3.7 194.1 (55.4)
Employee contributions 0.2 – 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid (28.3) (2.1) (30.4) (25.4)
Liabilities extinguished on settlements – – – (0.1)
Transfer in of unfunded arrangements – – – 0.2
Closing defined benefit obligation 696.9 38.2 735.1 523.8
Movements in the fair value of Scheme assets 
 
2010  
£m 
2009 
£m
Opening fair value of Scheme assets 409.0 513.0
Expected return 31.1 36.0
Actuarial gains/(losses) 118.2 (143.6)
Employer contributions 30.8 28.8
Employee contributions 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid (28.3) (25.4)
Closing fair value of Scheme assets 561.0 409.0
Where benefits are paid in respect of unfunded arrangements these costs are met by the employer and are included within employer contributions and benefits paid in 
the table above. 
Defined benefit pension scheme costs charged in the income statement  
 
2010  
£m 
2009 
£m
Current service cost 12.1 16.1
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 36.5 37.2
Expected return on Scheme assets (31.1) (36.0)
 5.4 1.2
The above costs are included in the following lines in the income statement: 
 
2010  
£m 
2009 
£m
Cost of sales 9.3 12.7
Administrative expenses 2.8 3.4
 12.1 16.1
Net financing cost 5.4 1.2
The expected rates of return on the Scheme assets are set at the beginning of the year, as follows: 
 
2010 
Expected 
return on 
assets 
% 
2009
Expected
return on
assets 
%
Equities 8.50 8.00
Corporate bonds 6.90 6.95
Government bonds 4.30 4.50
Property 6.50 6.25
Other 1.70 5.25
Overall expected rate of return 7.59 6.97
The expected rates of return on the Scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates 
in accordance with the anticipated balance in the Scheme’s investment portfolio, net of investment management expenses. The assets of the Scheme were held in the following 
proportions as at 31 March 2010; equities 61%, corporate bonds 30%, government bonds 2%, property 6%, and cash 1%. The actual gain/(loss) on assets during the year was 
£149.3m (2009: £(107.6)m).  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   69
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   69 
Liability for defined benefit obligations 
The principal actuarial assumptions for the Scheme and for the UK unfunded arrangement at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
 
2010
%
2009
%
Price inflation rate 3.60 3.10
Discount rate 5.70 7.20
Pensionable salaries rate  3.60 3.10
Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pensions 
– for service to 31 March 2006 3.50 3.10
– for service from 1 April 2006 2.50 2.30
For the majority of Scheme members increases in pensionable salaries are now capped at the same level as price inflation. 
The assumptions used for mortality rates for members of these arrangements at the expected retirement age of 65 years are as follows: 
 
2010
Years
2009
Years
Male aged 65 today 19.9 20.9
Male aged 45 today 21.4 22.2
Female aged 65 today 21.6 23.2
Female aged 45 today 23.0 24.4
The principal actuarial assumptions adopted for the German schemes as at 31 March 2010 were a discount rate of 4.9% (2009: 5.8%) per annum, a pensionable salaries increase rate 
of 2.25% (2009: 2.25%) per annum and an average pension increase rate of 2.0% (2009: 2.0%) per annum.  
Sensitivity table 
The sensitivity of the present value of the Scheme obligations to changes in the key actuarial assumptions are set out in the following table. The illustrations consider the result of 
only a single assumption changing with the others assumed unchanged, although in reality it is more likely that more than one assumption would change and potentially the 
results would offset each other. For example, a fall in interest rates will increase the Scheme obligations, but may also trigger an offsetting increase in market value of certain 
Scheme assets.  
 
Change in 
assumption
Impact on
liability
Price inflation  ± 0.5% ± 10.0%
Discount rate ± 0.5% 10.0%
Mortality rate + 1 year + 2.7%
History 
The net deficit in the schemes at the balance sheet date for the current and prior periods is as follows:  
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (735.1) (523.8) (546.5) (627.4) (614.1)
Fair value of Scheme assets 561.0 409.0 513.0 526.3 467.7
Net deficit (174.1) (114.8) (33.5) (101.1) (146.4)
Analysis of amount recognised in other comprehensive income 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains arising on pension scheme liabilities (194.1) 55.4 119.6 18.6 (125.7)
Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 118.2 (143.6) (57.9) (5.7) 60.5
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (75.9) (88.2) 61.7 12.9 (65.2)
The cumulative actuarial losses reported in other comprehensive income since the transition to Adopted IFRS on 1 April 2004 are £161.7m (2009: £85.8m). 
Defined contribution schemes 
The total expense relating to the Group’s defined contribution schemes in the current year was £9.5m (2009: £9.0m). 
± 70   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
70   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
27. EQUITY COMPENSATION BENEFITS 
Employees of the Group can participate, subject to seniority and length of service, in Wincanton’s Executive Share Option Schemes, Performance Share Plan, Share Match Incentive 
Schemes, Sharesave Option Scheme and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme all of which involve the grant of options for shares of the Group. 
The terms and conditions of the grants to date under these schemes are as follows: 
Executive Share Option Schemes 
Grant 
date 
Number of 
 options granted  
Vesting 
conditions 
Contractual
life years
June 2001 
September 2001 
July 2002 
December 2002 
2,966,959 
536,826 
44,318 
1,621,000  
3 years of service plus average annual growth rate for underlying EPS of RPI +3% in any  
3 consecutive years of the 5 years following the grant (starting with the year including  
the grant). 
10
March 2004 
December 2004 
July 2005 
December 2005 
December 2006 
December 2007 
250,000 
3,136,630 
45,000 
3,184,581 
2,925,065 
2,457,000  
3 years of service plus average annual growth rate for underlying EPS of RPI + 3% in the 
3 consecutive years following the grant (starting with the year including the grant). 
10
Total 17,167,379    
Performance Share Plan 
Grant 
date 
Number of 
 options granted  
Vesting 
conditions 
Contractual
life years
December 2007 
June 2008 
 
399,734 
1,053,972 
 
 
3 years of service plus (a) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s underlying EPS performance 
over 3 years (maximum vesting is achieved if annual underlying EPS growth is ≥ 15% per 
annum) and (b) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s TSR performance over 3 years relative 
to the TSR of the FTSE 250 (maximum vesting is achieved if TSR performance is ≥ 20% per 
annum in excess of the TSR of the FTSE 250).  
3½ 
June 2009 1,839,003 
 
 3 years of service plus (a) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s underlying EPS 
performance over 3 years (maximum vesting is achieved if the cumulative annual underlying 
EPS is 70p) and (b) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s TSR performance over 3 years 
relative to the TSR of constituents of the FTSE 250 index at the date of grant (“FTSE 250 
constituents”) (maximum vesting is achieved if TSR performance is in the upper quartile 
of the FTSE 250 constituents).  
3½ 
Total 3,292,709   
Share Match Incentive Schemes 
Grant 
date 
Number of 
 options granted  
Vesting 
conditions 
Contractual
life years
Original: 
June 2005 
July 2006 
July 2007 
June 2008 
 
55,577 
76,702 
21,008 
64,033  
 
3 years of service plus average annual growth rate for underlying EPS of RPI +3% in the  
3 consecutive years following the grant (starting with the year including the grant). 
3½
Revised: 
December 2007 
June 2008 
 
2,766,504 
1,549,444 
 
 
3 years of service plus (a) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s underlying EPS performance 
over 3 years (maximum vesting is achieved if annual compound underlying EPS growth is ≥ 
15% per annum) and (b) 50% will vest subject to the Company’s TSR performance over 
3 years relative to the TSR of the FTSE 250 (maximum vesting is achieved if TSR performance is 
≥ 20% per annum in excess of the TSR of the FTSE 250). 
3½
Total 4,533,268   
The Executive Share Option Schemes, Performance Share Plan and Share Match Incentive Schemes are open to Directors and senior managers only. Upon exercise, all options 
granted under these schemes are equity-settled. 
Sharesave Option Scheme 
The Group last granted options under the Sharesave Option Scheme in December 2004 which vested in December 2007. The scheme was open to all UK employees with 12 
months’ service at the grant date.  
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 
The Group introduced a Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme during the year to replace an existing cash only based senior management bonus scheme. The scheme is open to 
Directors and senior managers only. Under the scheme a proportion of the participants’ annual bonus is granted as nil cost options of which 50% will fully vest after achieving a year 
of further service and the balance will fully vest after a second year of service. The options for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be granted after the announcement of the Group’s 
results. Based on the share price at 31 March 2010, approximately 2.8 million options will be granted.  
The Group schemes all provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Group shares for a short period immediately prior to the date of grant.   Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   71
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   71 
The number and weighted average exercise price of all share options extant under the Executive Share Option Schemes, Performance Share Plan and Share Match Incentive 
Schemes are as follows: 
2010 2009
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
pence Options
Weighted average 
exercise price
pence
Outstanding at beginning of period 14,806,184 211 14,008,602 248
Granted during the period 1,839,003 – 2,667,449 –
Lapsed during the period (1,701,818) 237 (1,623,627) 189
Exercised during the period (192,646) – (246,240) 144
Outstanding at the end of the period 14,750,723 184 14,806,184 211
Exercisable at the end of the period 6,247,014 307 4,886,829 285
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 171p (2009: 292p). The options outstanding at 31 March 2010 had a 
range of exercise prices of between nil and 384p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4 years. 
Recognition in the income statement 
Under Adopted IFRS, the grants of options since 7 November 2002 are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, which requires the fair value of services 
received in return for share options granted to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period. The Group recognised total expenses of £4.3m (2009: £1.9m) 
in respect of the costs of equity settled and other share-based payment transactions during the year. At the year end liabilities of £0.8m (2009: £0.2m) were included in the balance 
sheet for these items.  
The fair value of these services is measured by reference to the fair value of the share options granted under each scheme. 
Executive Share Option and Sharesave Option schemes 
The grants made under these schemes all have non-market based performance conditions which are taken into account in the fair value calculation using a Binomial pricing model. 
The contractual life of the options and the expectation of early exercises are incorporated into the model. No grants were made under these schemes in the current or previous year. 
Expected volatility is based on a 3 year average of the historic share price volatility. 
Original Share Match Incentive Scheme 
The grants made under this scheme have non-market based performance conditions. As the grant is at nil cost, the fair value is equivalent to the option value (i.e. the average share 
price of the Company for three days prior to the grant date). 
Performance Share Plan and Revised Share Match Incentive Scheme 
The grants under these schemes are made in two parts based on EPS and TSR performance and a separate fair value is required for each part: (a) The EPS requirement is a non-
market based performance condition. As the grant is at nil cost the fair value is equivalent to the option value (i.e. the average share price of the Company for the three days prior to 
the grant date). (b) The TSR requirement is a market based performance condition and the fair value is calculated by applying a discount to the option value. The discount is 
calculated using scenario-modelling (December 2007 and June 2008 grants) and a Monte-Carlo pricing model (June 2009 grant) and is the expected outcome of meeting the 
performance criteria. For the June 2009 grant the fair value is 132p determined from the following variables: 
 June 2009 grant
Weighted average price at grant date 198 pence
Expected volatility  42.5%
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 2.36%
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 
The grants made under this scheme have non-market based performance conditions. As the grant is at nil cost, the fair value will be equivalent to the option value (i.e. the average 
share price of the Company for three days prior to the grant date). 
As the options for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be granted after the announcement of the Group’s results, the cost recognised in the income statement is based on the value 
of the bonus that is to be deferred in shares. 
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Financial risk management and treasury policies 
The Group, through its activities, is exposed to a range of financial risks. Financial risks are managed through the Group’s centralised treasury function which acts within clearly-
defined policies approved by the Board. These policies are designed to reduce the financial risks faced by the Group relating to liquidity risk; market risk (being interest rates, equity 
prices and currency exchange rate exposure) and credit risk. Transactions of a speculative nature are not permitted and the treasury function does not operate as a profit centre. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group has financed its growth in recent years through retained profit and 
debt. The Group’s policy on funding capacity is to ensure that there is always sufficient long-term funding and short-term facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak borrowing 
requirements. 
During the year the Group re-financed its core committed bank facilities, increasing the amount to £270m being £90m term loan and £180m revolving credit facility and extending 
the maturity until November 2012. At the same time, the Group drew US$35m from a bi-lateral placement facility with its leading US private placement investor, and swapped the 
proceeds into sterling, this facility matures in November 2016. These new facilities are in addition to the Group’s US$150m private placement, which matures in two tranches in 2012 
and 2015 and other bi-lateral lines totalling £4m.  72   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
72   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) 
The facilities noted above provide the Group with £405m of core committed funding of which £229m was drawn at 31 March 2010 leaving headroom of £176m (2009: £153m). 
The Group also has overdraft and other uncommitted facilities. Within the £405m of core committed facilities there is £221m (2009: £113m) in the form of bonds and term loan 
which must be drawn. At certain points in the working capital cycle this results in the Group having cash, which is held in short-term interest-bearing deposits. The Group also holds 
cash deposits within its captive insurer, these deposits have a mix of maturities, none of which is greater than 12 months.  
The Group’s net debt at the balance sheet date was: 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Total borrowings 248.7 224.7
Cash and cash equivalents (96.8) (48.3)
Net debt 151.9 176.4
See note 19 for further analysis of the contractual maturities of the financial liabilities. 
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of 
financial instruments. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group maintains a policy of using derivatives to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed, capped, and floating interest profiles, so as to limit the exposure to the cash cost 
of servicing its debt. 
The majority of the Group’s drawn debt at 31 March 2010 is at floating rates. In April 2010, the Group transacted a series of three and five year forward-starting interest rate swaps on 
£55m of its debt, with effective rates of between 3.1% and 3.7%. At the year end, the profile of the Group’s net interest rate exposure was: 
 2010 2009
 
Floating
rate
£m
Fixed
rate
£m
Total
£m
Floating 
rate 
£m 
Fixed 
rate 
£m 
Total
£m
Sterling   
Bank loans and overdrafts 111.6 – 111.6 78.5 – 78.5
Finance leases – 15.5 15.5 – 16.3 16.3
Borrowings 111.6 15.5 127.1 78.5 16.3 94.8
Cash (86.6) – (86.6) (22.4) – (22.4)
Net debt 25.0 15.5 40.5 56.1 16.3 72.4
Interest rate swap (15.0) 15.0 – (15.0) 15.0 –
Net debt 10.0 30.5 40.5 41.1 31.3 72.4
Of which capped ––– – – –
Euro and other currencies   
Bank loans and overdrafts 121.6 – 121.6 129.7 – 129.7
Finance leases ––– – 0.2 0.2
Borrowings 121.6 – 121.6 129.7 0.2 129.9
Cash (10.2) – (10.2) (25.9) – (25.9)
Net debt 111.4 – 111.4 103.8 0.2 104.0
Of which capped ––– 92.9 – 92.9
The net fair value of the financial instruments used to manage interest rates is £(0.5)m (2009: £(0.9)m). 
Interest rate sensitivity 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a change in interest rates of 1.0% on the Group’s profit before tax and equity. The impact has been calculated by applying the 
change in interest rates to the weighted average interest rate during the year, and applying this rate to the average borrowings during the year. A variation of 1.0% represents 
management’s view of a reasonably possible change in interest rates. Any impact on equity excludes the possible effect which a change in interest rates may have on the present 
value of the Group’s pension obligations, the effects of which are set out in note 26. 
2010  2009
Effect
on profit
before tax
£m
Effect  
on equity 
£m 
Effect 
on profit 
before tax 
£m 
Effect 
on equity
£m
Sterling    
1.0% increase in rates (1.6) (1.6) (1.4) (1.4)
1.0% decrease in rates 1.6 1.6 1.4 1.4
Euro   
1.0% increase in rates (1.2) (1.2) (1.2) (1.2)
1.0% decrease in rates 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2
The methods and assumptions used to calculate the possible effect of a change in interest rates are consistent with those used in the prior year.  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   73
 
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   73 
Currency risk and sensitivity  
As a Pan-European business a proportion of the Group’s activities are denominated in currencies other than sterling, principally the euro. However, the transactional exposure of the 
Group is minimised as the vast majority of transactions are denominated in the relevant functional currency of the operation concerned. 
In order to protect the sterling value of the balance sheet, the Group generally finances its investment in overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in the applicable currency. 
Consequently, any change in the value of a currency against sterling with all other variables held constant has no material impact on the net assets of the Group. The only exception 
is the Group’s net investment in Hungary which is financed in sterling; a 5% change in the sterling/Hungarian forint exchange rate would have a £0.5m impact on the Group’s net 
assets. A variation of 5% represents management’s view of a reasonably possible change in the sterling/Hungarian forint exchange rate.  
Although a proportion of non-sterling funding is obtained by borrowing euro and other currencies directly from the Group’s committed facilities, a large element results from 
swapping the US$185m private placement into sterling, and then swapping the equivalent of US$125m from sterling into euros. The underlying US$185m principal and all future 
cash flows are fully hedged; the fair values of the US$ principal, and the US$/GBP swaps move in line with each other, so there is no resulting adjustment to the Group’s income 
statement. The GBP/euro swaps are used as part of the Group’s net investment hedge, whereby changes in the value of the Group’s net investment denominated in euros are offset 
by changes in the value of the swap.  
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s 
receivables from customers. 
The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Deposits are only made with pre-approved counterparties. Credit evaluations 
are performed on all customers requiring credit. The Group does not generally require collateral in respect of financial assets. At the balance sheet date there were no significant 
concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the 
balance sheet of £503.2m (2009: £451.4m). See note 17 for further analysis of trade receivables and the associated doubtful debt provisions held. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. 
Fair values 
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are given in the following table:  
2010 2009
Carrying amount
£m
Fair value 
£m 
Carrying amount
restated
£m
Fair value
restated
£m
Unlisted trade investments 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Trade receivables 257.9 257.9 278.1 278.1
Other receivables 10.8 10.8 7.1 7.1
Cash and cash equivalents 96.8 96.8 48.3 48.3
US$ fixed to floating swaps  
– Assets 137.7 137.7 117.9 117.9
– Liabilities (130.8) (130.8) (113.3) (113.3)
Bank loans and overdrafts (102.4) (102.4) (94.9) (94.9)
Unsecured bond issues – US$ private placement (137.7) (137.7) (117.9) (117.9)
Finance lease liabilities (15.5) (15.5) (16.5) (16.5)
Trade and other payables (535.0) (535.0) (522.4) (522.4)
Unrecognised losses – –
Estimation of fair values 
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the above table. 
Derivatives 
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate. For interest 
rate swaps, broker quotes are used. 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and unsecured bond issues 
Fair value is calculated on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows at market interest rates. 
Finance lease liabilities 
The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogenous lease agreements.  74   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
74   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
29. RELATED PARTIES 
Identity of related parties 
The Group has a controlling related party relationship with its parent company Wincanton plc. In addition the Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries and 
associates, jointly controlled entities (notes 12, 13 and 14 respectively) and with its Executive and non-executive Directors. 
Transactions with Executive and non-executive Directors 
The interests of the Executive and non-executive Directors in the share capital of the Company, plus full details of the individual Director’s emoluments, bonuses deferred in shares, 
share options and pension entitlements are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 33 to 42. 
The total of short-term employee remuneration and benefits receivable by the Directors is set out in note 4. 
Other related party transactions 
Associates 
During the year ended 31 March 2010, associates purchased services from the Group for £0.3m (2009: £0.3m) and sold services to the Group for £7.7m (2009: £7.0m). At 31 March 
2010, the outstanding balance between associates and the Group was £1.3m (2009: £1.4m). All transactions with associates are made on commercial terms.  
Jointly controlled entities 
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the jointly controlled entities purchased services from the Group for £10.1m (2009: £9.4m) and sold services to the Group for £11.6m 
(2009: £12.9m). At 31 March 2010, the outstanding balance between the jointly controlled entities and the Group was £1.5m (2009: £1.3m). All transactions with the jointly 
controlled entities are made on commercial terms.  
In addition a loan balance existed between the jointly controlled entities and the Group as at 31 March 2010 of £0.6m (2009: £0.9m). All loans are provided on commercial terms. 
30. ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 
Management discusses with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these 
policies and estimates. 
The areas where policy and estimate selection is most critical for the Group are concerned with the accounting for pensions, the determination of provisions, and the testing of 
goodwill for impairment. Information about the assumptions and risk factors relating to these issues are given in notes 26, 21 and 9 respectively. 
 
  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   75
Wincanton plc 
Company balance sheet 
AT 31 MARCH 2010 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   75 
Note 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fixed assets  
Investments 2 115.8 113.3
  115.8 113.3
Current assets  
Debtors 3 114.9 143.8
Cash at bank and in hand  40.6 0.2
  155.5 144.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (4.7) (6.2)
Net current assets  150.8 137.8
Total assets less current liabilities  266.6 251.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 5 (221.2) (201.8)
Net assets  45.4 49.3
  
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital 6 12.1 12.1
Share premium account 6 12.2 12.2
Profit and loss account 6 21.1 25.0
Equity shareholders’ funds 7 45.4 49.3
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 June 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
G McFaull   G D Connell 
Chief Executive  Group Finance Director 
Company Registration Number: 4178808 
  76   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the Wincanton plc 
Company financial statements 
 
76   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s financial statements, except as 
noted below. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).  
Under Section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
Advantage has been taken of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures available to parent companies not to present financial instrument disclosures as the Group financial 
statements contain disclosures that comply with the standard. 
The Company participates in both funded and unfunded pension schemes providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The assets of the funded scheme are held separately 
from those of the Company. The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, 
as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account 
represents the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period. 
The following amendments to standards have been adopted in these financial statements for the first time: 
The amendment to FRS 8 Related Parties Disclosures has the effect that only transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries are exempt from disclosure and there is no longer 
a disclosure exemption available in parent company’s own financial statements. 
The amendment to FRS 20 (IFRS 2) Vesting Conditions and Cancellations clarifies the definition of vesting conditions, introduces the concept of non-vesting conditions, 
requires non-vesting conditions to be reflected in grant-date fair value and amends the accounting for cancellations and settlements by parties other than the entity. 
The amendment to FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date confirms no obligation exists at the balance sheet date for dividends declared after that date. 
Adoption of these amendments has not had a significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2010 or previous years. 
Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying values may not be recoverable. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on such translation are recognised in the profit and 
loss account. 
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account deferred taxation. Deferred taxation is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes that have occurred but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise 
required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. 
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.  
Derivative financial instruments which are accounted for as trading instruments are recognised initially and subsequently stated at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to 
fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the item being hedged (see below). 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current 
interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, 
being the present value of the quoted forward price. 
Fair value hedges 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in 
the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is 
attributable to the risk being hedged (even if it is normally carried at cost or amortised cost) and any gains or losses on remeasurement are also recognised immediately in the profit 
and loss account (even if those gains would normally be recognised directly in reserves). 
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities 
Where a derivative financial instrument is used to economically hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied 
and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the profit and loss account. 
Interest-bearing borrowings 
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at 
amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest 
basis. Interest-bearing borrowings which are designated hedged items in a fair value hedge arrangement are carried at fair value (see policy above). 
Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust 
Shares in the Company held by the Wincanton plc Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from shareholders’ equity at cost in accordance with UITF Abstract 38 
Accounting for ESOP Trusts.  Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   77
 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   77 
Share-based payments 
Where a parent company grants rights to its instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group, the subsidiary is required to record an expense for such compensation in accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, with a corresponding 
increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent. Consequently, in these financial statements, the Company recognises additions to fixed asset investments with a 
credit to equity for the same amount. 
2. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS 
Shares in Group undertakings 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cost 
At beginning of year 113.3 111.4
Additions – share-based payments  2.5 1.9
At end of year 115.8 113.3
A list of the subsidiaries of Wincanton plc is given in note 12 to the Group financial statements. 
3. DEBTORS 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 105.7 143.5
Group tax relief receivable 4.1 –
Deferred tax 0.1 –
Prepayments and accrued income 5.0 0.3
 114.9 143.8
All debtors are due within one year, except for prepayments of £2.8m (2009: £0.2m) and amounts owed by Group undertakings. 
4. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts 1.7 3.9
Accruals and deferred income 3.0 2.0
Group tax relief payable – 0.3
 4.7 6.2
5. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts 221.2 201.8
 221.2 201.8
Included within bank loans and overdrafts are amounts repayable after 5 years otherwise than by instalments of £59.1m (2009: £38.2m).  78   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Notes to the Wincanton plc 
Company financial statements 
78   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
6. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves 
 Profit and loss account 
 
Share capital
£m
Share premium
£m
Reserve for own 
shares
£m
FRS 20 reserve 
£m 
Retained earnings 
£m 
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 April 2008 12.1 11.9 (14.7) 1.0 37.7 48.0
Total recognised gains – – – – 19.1 19.1
Shares issued due to options exercised by employees – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Own shares disposed of on exercise of options – – 0.3 – (0.3) –
Purchase of own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust – – (2.7) – – (2.7)
Dividends paid to shareholders – – – – (17.6) (17.6)
Equity granted to employees of the Company and 
subsidiaries – – – 0.3 1.9 2.2
Balance at 31 March 2009 12.1 12.2 (17.1) 1.3 40.8 49.3
Balance at 1 April 2009 12.1 12.2 (17.1) 1.3 40.8 49.3
Total recognised gains – – – – 11.9 11.9
Own shares disposed of on exercise of options – – 0.5 – (0.5) –
Purchase of own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust – – (2.0) – – (2.0)
Dividends paid to shareholders – – – – (17.1) (17.1)
Equity granted to employees of the Company and 
subsidiaries – – – 0.8 2.5 3.3
Balance at 31 March 2010 12.1 12.2 (18.6) 2.1 37.6 45.4
During the year ended 31 March 2002, the Company established a Capital Redemption Reserve of £49,998 on redemption of redeemable preference shares. The FRS 20 reserve 
comprises the charge made to the profit and loss account in respect of share-based payments under the Company’s share option schemes. 
Details of the Company’s own shares, held within an Employee Benefit Trust, are given in note 23 to the Group financial statements. 
 Ordinary shares
Allotted, called up and fully paid 
2010 
millions 
2009
millions
In issue at 1 April 121.4 121.3
Issued for cash – 0.1
In issue at 31 March  121.4 121.4
At 31 March 2010 the authorised share capital comprised 159,999,980 (2009: 159,999,980) ordinary shares of 10p each. 
As permitted by Section 408 (4) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account. The Directors’ remuneration as disclosed in note 4 to 
the Group financial statements is borne by Wincanton plc. The Directors are the only employees of the Company. The Company has taken the exemption not to disclose non-audit 
fees incurred as these are included in note 3 to the Group financial statements.  
7. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
 
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
Profit for the financial year 11.9 19.1
Dividends declared and paid (17.1) (17.6)
Retained (loss)/profit for the financial year (5.2) 1.5
Purchase of own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (2.0) (2.7)
Shares issued due to options exercised by employees – 0.3
Equity granted to employees of the Company and subsidiaries 3.3 2.2
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (3.9) 1.3
Opening shareholders’ funds 49.3 48.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 45.4 49.3 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   79
Group five-year record 
 
Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   79 
As reported under Adopted IFRS 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Revenue 2,182.9 2,361.3 2,164.7 1,933.1 1,809.3
Underlying operating profit
1
 54.6 59.6 52.6 45.5 42.0
Net financing costs  (19.9) (18.3) (10.8) (9.9) (9.7)
Underlying profit before tax
1
 34.7 41.3 41.8 35.6 32.3
Profit before tax 3.0 20.0 36.7 32.6 31.3
Underlying profit after tax for the year
1
 24.0 28.7 28.4 24.4 22.0
Underlying earnings per share
1
 20.9p 24.7p 24.3p 21.0p 19.2p
Dividend per share  14.91p 14.91p 14.91p 13.55p 12.54p
Dividend cover
2
 1.40x 1.66x 1.63x 1.55x 1.53x
Interest cover
2
 2.7x 3.3x 4.9x 4.6x 4.3x
Net debt (151.9) (176.4) (104.5) (65.8) (60.6)
Capital employed
3
 72.3 113.7 104.5 82.5 119.7
Return on capital employed
3
 75.5% 52.4% 50.3% 55.2% 35.1%
Free cash flow
4
 83.5 57.5 48.5 72.2 54.4
1
 Operating profit, and hence profit before and after tax is reported on an underlying basis, i.e. including share of results of associates but before amortisation of acquired intangibles, any goodwill impairment 
and exceptionals. Underlying earnings per share is calculated on the same basis. 
2
 Dividend cover is based on the underlying earnings per share as defined above and the dividend per share above. Interest cover is calculated using operating profit as defined above. 
3
 Capital employed is defined as net assets/(liabilities) adjusted for goodwill, acquired intangibles, debt, tax, employee benefits and insurance provisions. Return on capital employed is calculated as underlying 
operating profit over capital employed. 
4
 Free cash flow comprises EBITDA plus working capital and net capital expenditure flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial calendar 
 
 
 
Annual General Meeting To be held on 21 July 2010 at the offices of Buchanan Communications, 45 Moorfields, London EC2Y 9AE at 11.30am 
Ordinary dividends   
Interim 4.83p per share Paid 5 January 2010 
Final 10.08p per share Payable 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 July 2010 
Half year results Interim announcement November 2010 
Full year results  Preliminary announcement June 2011 
Annual report Posted to shareholders at the end of June 2011  80   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Shareholder information 
 
80   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010 
Annual report 
Copies can be obtained from the Company’s address below. 
Share registrar  
The Company’s Registrar is Computershare. If you have any questions about your 
holding or wish to notify any change in your details, please contact the Registrar at: 
Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY. 
Telephone: 0870 707 1788. Whenever you contact the Registrar, please quote the full 
names in which your shares are held. Please advise the Registrar promptly of any 
change of address. 
Dividend mandates 
The Company encourages its shareholders to have future dividends paid directly into 
their bank or building society account. To set this up for the shares you hold, you should 
contact the Registrar for a dividend mandate form or complete the instructions 
attached to your dividend payment. 
Share dealing service 
Wincanton shares may be dealt through the Company’s brokers. If you would like 
further information, you may contact the brokers at: Postal Dealing Service, JPMorgan 
Cazenove Limited, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA. Telephone: 020 7588 2828. Please 
note that to comply with legislation aimed at the control of money laundering, users of 
this service will be required to provide details of their identity. Alternatively please 
contact your bank or stockbroker who will be able to assist you in selling your shares. 
Share price quotation 
The Company’s share price is quoted daily in national newspapers as well as via the 
Wincanton website, where it is regularly updated through the day. 
Shareholders’ enquiries 
If you have an enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you 
as a shareholder (other than queries regarding shareholdings which are dealt with by 
Computershare) you are invited to contact the Company at the address below. 
Unsolicited mail 
The Company is obliged to make its Register available to other organisations. 
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of unsolicited mail they may receive as a result 
should write to the Mailing Preference Service at DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, 
London SW1W 8SS, or online at www.mpsonline.org.uk.  
Unsolicited investment advice 
Over recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters. 
These are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to 
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK 
investments. These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ 
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by investors is 
around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many 
of the victims had been successfully investing for several years. Shareholders are advised 
to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of 
free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation. 
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting 
www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do  
• Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting 
www.moneymadeclear.org.uk 
• If the calls persist, hang up. 
• Inform Computershare’s Compliance Department. 
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payments under 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing 
an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/upi_form.shtml 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in 
company mailings. 
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website 
www.moneymadeclear.org.uk 
ShareGift 
If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be uneconomical or simply not 
worthwhile to sell them, you could consider donating your shares to charity through 
ShareGift (registered charity 1052686). Donated shares are aggregated and sold by 
ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities. Donating 
shares to charity gives rise to neither a gain nor loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes 
and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income relief on such gifts of shares. To find 
out more visit www.sharegift.org or call 020 7930 3737. Alternatively contact the 
Company’s Registrar who can help arrange the transfer of your shares. 
Wincanton plc website 
The Wincanton website at www.wincanton.co.uk provides news and information about 
the services offered by Wincanton as well as useful information for investors. 
Secretary and registered office 
S P Williams  
Wincanton plc  
Methuen Park 
Chippenham 
Wiltshire 
SN14 0WT 
Tel +44 (0)1249 71 00 00 
Registered in England & Wales under No. 4178808  o ur business
o ur Vision
Wincanton is a european market leader.  
We design, implement and manage supply  
chain solutions which are efficient, economical  
and environmentally sustainable.
o ur services cover the entire supply chain, from 
raw materials to recycling, helping our customers 
to optimise their performance and compete with 
confidence in their chosen markets. increasingly, 
our customers are looking to us to provide an  
even broader range of business support services.
t he products and services we manage touch  
most parts of daily life.
Wincanton. More than you think.
is to be the first choice for our people,  
our customers and our shareholders.
o ur people provide o ur customers receive
> integrity
> Mutual trust
> passion
> Accountability
> commitment
> teamwork
> o perational excellence
> proactive partnership
> innovation 
> productivity and cost efficiency
> competitive advantage
Design and production 
Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Printing 
Royle Corporate Print
Royle Corporate Print is FSC and ISO 14001 certified with strict procedures 
in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
This report is printed on Cocoon Silk and Cocoon Offset papers which  
are made from 100% recycled waste. All pulps used are Elemental 
Chlorine-Free (ECF). These papers have been independently certified 
as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and 
were manufactured at mills certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS 
environmental standards.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council. This ensures that there is an audited 
chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to 
the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 – A pattern of control for an environmental management 
system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
EMAS – The Eco-Management and Audit Scheme represents the 
highest standard for environmental requirements in Europe. Annu Al report And Accounts 20 10
Winc Anton plc Annu Al report And Accounts 2010
Methuen Park  
Chippenham  
Wiltshire SN14 0WT  
United Kingdom
Registered in England & 
Wales under No. 41 78808
Tel +44 (0)1249 71 00 00
Fax +44 (0)1249 71 00 01
Wincanton plc
www.wincanton.co.uk
producti Vit Y And eFFicienc Y 
custo Mer p Artners Hips le Adin G 
edGe tec Hnolo GY World -cl Ass 
ser Vice oper Ation Al eXcellence 
sector e Xpertise A nd K no Wled Ge 
pro Ject A nd c HAnGe MAnAGeMent 
le Ver AGinG custo Mers ’ Assets 
dri VinG For G ro Wt H
