 MEETING CUSTOMER NEEDS BY
PROVIDING THE RIGHT PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES, WHEN AND WHERE THEY
ARE NEEDED, AT COMPETITIVE PRICES
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 THE WOLSELEY GROUP IS THE WORLD’S 
LARGEST TRADE DISTRIBUTOR OF HEATING
AND PLUMBING PRODUCTS AND A LEADING
SUPPLIER OF BUILDERS’ MATERIALS.
Contents
01 Financial highlights
02 An international business
04 Our brands
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief executive’s review
22 Operating and 
financial review
30 Our directors
32 Corporate social 
responsibility report
36 Report of the directors
38 Corporate governance
44 Remuneration report
50 Group profit and 
loss account
51 Balance sheets
52 Group cash flow statement
52 Group statement of total 
recognised gains and losses
53 Accounting policies
55 Notes to the accounts
76 Auditors’ report
77 Principal subsidiary 
undertakings and 
their directors
79 Acquisitions completed 
during the year
80 Five year summary
82 Information in 
United States dollars
83 Group information
84 Shareholder information
Front cover:
Dale Elliot from Whissell Contracting,
Calgary, Canada; one of our many 
satisfied customers.
Wolseley is a unique business. No other organisation, 
anywhere in the world, is truly comparable.
Where many suppliers are nationally focused, we cross geographies. 
Where they may concentrate on narrow products lines, we distribute 
a diverse range to meet a wide spectrum of needs.
Our customers are drawn from across the industry: self-employed 
contractors, large construction businesses and governments all 
depend on Wolseley expertise.
We meet the demands of these customers by providing the products 
and services they need, when and where they need them, at prices 
that help them achieve their objectives. 01   Financial highlights Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
> Group sales up 3.2% to £8.2 billion
>Group operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
up 1.9% to £472.9 million
>Group operating profit up 1.3% to £443.0 million
>Group pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation 
up 4.2% to £455.9 million
>Group profit before tax up 3.7% to £426.0 million
> Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
up 3.9% to 56.69 pence
> Basic earnings per share up 3.1% to 51.53 pence
> Cash flow from operating activities up 4.0%
> Return on capital 16.7%
> Final dividend up by 12.2%, giving a total dividend 
for the year of 21.2 pence
Financial highlights An international business
Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
>12COUNTRIES
>3,449 BRANCHES
>46,000 EMPLOYEES
>£8,22 1,000,000 SALES
At Wolseley, we add value at every stage
of the process through the knowledge of
our people and the standard of our
products and services.
02   An international business
Financial stability
Market growth Product diversity
Delivery services
Streamlined
processes
Multiple channels
to market
Knowledgeable
employees
Trade counters
and showrooms
Electronic ordering
XML, EDI, Web
Distribution
centres
and branches
Bulk purchasing
Replenishment
and product
forecasting
Integrated supply
and technical
support
WOLSELEY
Manufacturers Customers We employ 46,000 people who
operate 3,449 branches in 12 
countries across two continents.
Europe
North America
UK
Ireland
France
Luxembourg
Italy
Denmark
Netherlands
Czech Republic
Austria
Hungary
Canada
United States of America Our brands
The Wolseley business is built 
on brands, all of which are familiar
and trusted names in their home
markets, some of which are 
represented here. The focus on ‘home markets’ is 
key to our success: we are local 
people, harnessing the experience 
and expertise gained internationally 
in order to provide local solutions 
that meet the needs of local 
marketplaces. 06   Chairman’s statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
John W Whybrow
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
This is my first statement to you since becoming Chairman in
December 2002, following five years as a Non Executive Director of
Wolseley. Over the past year, I have had the opportunity to meet with
all our businesses, both large and small, across Europe, the USA
and Canada, and also to review the effectiveness of your board.
It is clear we have a strategy which is delivering shareholder value,
supported by excellent people, determined leadership and strong
brands in our various markets. The opportunities for growth are
evident, be they through acquisition or organic. One of our core
strengths has been our ability to service our customers and 
develop local markets. This remains a key competency, which 
will be increasingly complemented by leveraging our international
strengths throughout the organisation, from material procurement 
to IT infrastructure.
Good results have been achieved this year in spite of generally flat or
negative markets and a weakness in the US dollar. Cash generation
was strong, enabling maintenance of a healthy balance sheet combined
with a record level of expenditure on acquisitions, the largest being
Pinault Bois et Matériaux in France for m565 million.
Dividend
With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising 
to 56.69 pence, the board is recommending a final dividend of 
15.6 pence which gives a total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence, 
an increase of 12.2% over the dividend declared last year. 
This reflects our confidence in the future.
Chairman’s statement The board
During the year there have been a number of changes to the board.
Richard Ireland retired, having been a board member for some 
27 years, the last six as Chairman. Richard made a major contribution
to the Company, steering it through many changes to become the
leading player it is today. Andrew Hutton, Executive Director with
responsibility for the UK and Northern Europe, retired on 31 July 2003
after 18 years with the Group, the last nine of which were on the
board. Andrew is recognised and respected as a man of great
integrity who consistently delivered excellent results. On behalf of the
board and our employees, I would like to thank both Richard and
Andrew for their strong support and wish them well in the future.
In July we were delighted to welcome Gareth Davis and, in August,
Gérard Legtmann to the board. Gareth joined the board as a 
Non Executive Director. He has an outstanding track record as 
the Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and is well
respected in international business. Gérard joined the board as 
the Chief Executive for Europe. This is a new position which reflects
the increasing opportunities we see to manage the business across
European boundaries, as we pursue our international strategy.
Gérard also brings with him considerable international experience 
in both Europe and the USA, including experience in implementing
change across organisations. I look forward to working with them 
in the future.
2003 will be seen as the year of corporate governance debate. 
The Wolseley board has paid significant attention not only to the
Higgs and Smith Reviews, but also to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The majority of the recommendations represent good practice and
are supported. There cannot, however, be a perfect governance
model and your board has been pleased to see that a number 
of changes recommended in the Higgs Report have been revised 
in the new UK Combined Code published on 23 July 2003. 
Your board believes it is important that leadership and responsibility
are clearly defined and that there is continued consideration and
debate in this area. Meanwhile, we will continue to apply high
standards of governance, conform to standards and, above all,
ensure entrepreneurial leadership.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our employees for their contribution
and efforts over the year. The pride and care taken by them all in
serving our customers is second to none. I would also like to thank
our shareholders for their continued confidence in the Company.
There is no doubt that the year ahead will be challenging, but I
assure you that we are committed to delivering a solid financial
performance together with ongoing growth.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
07   Chairman’s statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
WOLSELEY IS MEETING MORE
CUSTOMER NEEDS, IN MORE
PLACES AND WITH A WIDER RANGE 
OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, 
THAN A T ANY TIME IN OUR HISTORY
08   Chief executive’s review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief executive’s review 09   Chief executive’s review
An excellent performance 
in challenging circumstances
Today, Wolseley is meeting more customer needs, in more places
and with a wider range of products and services than at any time 
in our history.
Major construction companies building new condominiums in 
North America, self-employed plumbers fixing taps in the UK,
heating installers remodelling infrastructures in France and Canadian
contractors fitting out new homes inside the Arctic Circle… all rely 
on the strengths of Wolseley; strengths that have produced another
record performance despite some difficulties in the economies of
both the USA and continental Europe.
Wolseley has produced seven straight years of record results and
18 out of the last 21 years have seen increased sales and trading
profit
1
for the Group.
During the year under review the UK marketplace was buoyant 
and our management team took advantage of market opportunities
to turn in a top performance. With new branch openings, acquisitions,
tight cost controls and a strong sales effort the UK businesses grew
quickly and recorded an excellent financial performance.
Elsewhere in Europe, markets experienced low growth and in some
cases no growth. Yet we continued to outperform the market and
grow our profits. New branch openings in Italy, new products in 
the Netherlands and acquisitions in France all helped to produce
improved performances.
The US economy has been uncertain with some wide market 
and geographic variations. Housing and Repair, Maintenance and
Installation, along with Water and Sewer Infrastructure, were all
strong markets while Commercial and Industrial were weak.
Our US plumbing and heating division, Ferguson, produced robust
growth in earnings. Great progress was made on the integration of
the Clayton and Westburne acquisitions along with Familian Northwest
into Ferguson to produce a strong coast to coast and border to
border company. 
Ferguson celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2003 with another 
year of outstanding growth and profit contribution. The Ferguson
Enterprises team continues with its programme of bolt-on acquisitions,
enhanced supply chain management and market consolidation.
Our Canadian company produced another excellent year with
strong organic growth, several acquisitions and improved margins.
The Canadian economy was resilient; our people took advantage 
of those opportunities, outperformed their competitors and enhanced
their position for future growth.
1
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The ongoing reductions in timber prices led to a disappointing year
for our Stock Building Supply (“SBS”) business. In the USA, timber is 
a major component in new housing and accounts for about 40% of
SBS’s turnover. Currently there remains too much timber supply in
the market and the average price has fallen for the third successive
year. SBS has taken the challenge, and is restructuring the business 
by consolidating operations and expects to take out $10 million 
of cost by 2005, while responding to changing customer trends.
I would like to put on record my gratitude to the people who,
together, have made Wolseley the great company it is today. 
During my 35 years with the Group, I have been accustomed to 
the passion and skill of our people, but I confess that even I have
been pleased and impressed by the drive, expertise and customer
dedication shown by our teams in the past year. Thank you!
Looking forward, we have a great opportunity for growth but we
must strive for continual improvement to really take advantage.
We are building a strong, diversified international Group serving 
the construction industry and focusing on the distribution of building
materials. Our customers are contractors, industry and government,
giving us a large market and diversified product offering together
with a customer base that is primed for growth.
Our international Group is made up of strong national companies
that develop their unique organisations and human resources,
maximising their effectiveness for their customers. This ensures 
a competitive and responsive organisation in our local markets.
Our presence in 12 countries gives us opportunity to leverage our size
as few others can. In particular, we are concentrating on purchasing
and back office functions and the elimination of duplication. 
We have a great opportunity and our strategic direction is focused
on the following six areas to ensure continued success: 
> growing through acquisition and organic expansion
> continuous improvement
> leveraging our international position
> enhancing our business diversity
> developing our human resources
> creating innovative solutions to meet our customers’ changing needs
As you can see from the following pages, we believe our efforts 
will make our companies more competitive and more effective, 
as we strive to bring greater benefits to all our stakeholders.
Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 10   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Growing through acquisition
and organic expansion
A key long-term strategy, acquisitions and expansion, ensures that we
continue to be able to meet more customer needs, in more locations,
and create more opportunities for our investors and employees. 
The target is double-digit growth in sales and earnings, year on year.
Consequently, we constantly examine all sectors, identifying quality
companies that will enhance our product and geographical diversity
while also showing evidence of the sound financial position that is 
the hallmark of a Wolseley brand.
We are able to fund our growth as a result of our financial strength.
Most acquisitions are bolt-ons to existing businesses, extending
either our diversity, our reach or both. However, we never rule out 
the opportunity to move into new markets in Europe or North America.
So while the focus remains on our core businesses of plumbing and
mechanical, heating and building materials, we constantly monitor and
evaluate emerging possibilities in the construction materials sector. 
In all cases, we set rigorous acquisition criteria. When these are met,
there follows a period of due diligence. Although we aim to invest
£200 million per year in bolt-on acquisitions, clearly the opportunities
do not always fall neatly into 12 month periods. During the previous year,
for example, we invested just £160 million in acquisitions. Yet in 2002-03,
we passed the £500 million barrier – a record for the Group.
Twenty four acquisitions were completed for an aggregate spend of
£513 million, with the most significant purchase being the m565 million
acquisition of Pinault Bois et Matériaux (“PBM”). This company is the
second largest heavyside distributor in France, with a market share 
of just over 8% and more than 5,000 employees working at some
300 locations across the country. Around 85% of PBM’s business
relates to the distribution of building materials and 15% to the
importation and distribution of timber. In the year to 31 December 2002,
PBM recorded sales of £861 million and operating profit, before
goodwill amortisation, of £50 million.
Neither do the opportunities fall equally between Europe and 
North America, the continents where we currently operate. 
There is no pre-set balance between the two regions. We are 
active in 12 countries and have ambitions to be active in many 
more. We will seize opportunities wherever they arise, whenever 
they arise, provided that they meet our acquisition criteria.
The majority of our acquisitions were made in Europe. In addition 
to the investment in PBM, we purchased 13 further companies at 
a total cost of £61 million. Of these, the largest was the acquisition 
of Bathstore.com which operates a network of branches in the UK.
Bathstore.com complements our existing Just Bathrooms brand. 
The US Building Materials Division, SBS, acquired three businesses
during the year for a total of £36 million. The largest of these was 
Wenco Distributors of Texas. Wenco is a leading distributor of 
millwork, lumber and building materials to professional contractors
and operates from eight facilities in Texas. This acquisition underpins
SBS’ continuing focus on value-added activities which represent 60%
of Wenco’s turnover (£88 million in the year to 31 December 2002).
The North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution business saw
£26 million of acquisitions. Seven companies were purchased, including
Meridian Specialities Inc. which became part of Wolseley Canada.
Meridian supplies industrial valves to the oil and gas, pulp mills and
mining sectors in Western Canada and had a turnover of £20 million
in the year ended 28 February 2002.
Branch numbers worldwide increased by 494 (16.7%) to 3,449 
at 31 July 2003. Altogether, 101 new branches were opened and 
393 were added through acquisitions, during the year. In the UK, 
153 were added, bringing the total to 1,372. In mainland Europe, 
our branch network now numbers 894, including 314 new branches.
In North America, we welcomed 27 branches into the Group and 
our network currently stands at 1,183.
1. Knowledgeable employees
Our specialists operate warehouses 
on behalf of Feenstra. We know our
customers’ business, and the needs 
of their plumbers, inside out.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
During the day, our scanner technology
monitors product usage by Feenstra
plumbers. Overnight, we replenish
stocks in the vans outside the 
plumbers’ homes.
3. Same day and next day deliveries
We provide the right products in the
right place at the right time. Because 
the plumbers no longer have to visit the
warehouse to stock up, they are able to
attend up to two extra jobs per day. I NEED
MY V AN STOCKING UP
OVERNIGHT , WHILE I SLEEP
Ilco tem Bokum > Plumber for
Feenstra > Twello, The Netherlands
Our WASCO business has worked
with Feenstra, the national gas
company in the Netherlands, 
for more than 15 years. WASCO
is now the sole distributor of spare
parts to Feenstra.
Twello I NEED
TO KEEP THE TAPS
RUNNING FOR THE
PEOPLE OF VIENNA
Thomas Weichselberger > 
Reservoir Manager > 
Vienna, Austria
Our ÖAG business supplies the
pipework, valves and associated
products that carry water over 
100 miles from mountain springs 
to underground reservoirs to taps 
in Vienna.
Vienna 13   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Continuous improvement
For 20 years, Wolseley has set high standards in terms of sustained
growth and profitability; yet we are neither complacent nor content.
We know that the pursuit of double-digit growth and acceptable
returns for all stakeholders demands continuous improvement 
from all our businesses.
Over the past 12 months, we have continued to support initiatives
that will advance the organisation. An example is the three-year
focus that has seen the establishment of a framework and strategy
to improve our use of capital. At a Group level, we aligned executive
compensation and provided direction on areas that should be
addressed. The operating companies then took the initiative to
develop specific action plans relevant to their own circumstances,
such as accounts payable, surplus inventory or accounts receivable
management. This focus has seen working capital ratios improve
from 16.1% in 2001 to 15.4% in 2003. The result is a substantial
improvement in free cash flow, from £214 million in 2001 to 
£248 million in 2002 and £269 million in 2003.
Initiatives at our Ferguson distribution centres (“DCs”) in the USA
illustrate the point. Over the last three years, the Ferguson team has
worked with passion and determination to improve the operating
performance of the DCs. Particular attention has been paid to areas
including supplier lead times, demand forecasting, the replenishment
process between the branches and the DCs and data management.
While maintaining a service level of over 96% for the period, 
the team reduced the days in inventory from a 12-month average 
of 60 days in 2001 to 33 days in 2003. In addition, ‘no value
inventory’ was reduced by 70%.
The use of measurements such as Key Performance Indicators has
been central to continuous improvement at Ferguson and elsewhere
across the organisation. In the UK, for example, our Heavyside
Division has implemented a Balanced Scorecard approach that
focuses on financial best practice and also promotes service,
understanding and development among customers, staff and
suppliers. This new initiative now forms the bedrock of the culture
within the UK businesses and early benefits have been noted in
terms of financial performance, staff training and development 
and the level of customer understanding and service.
In the drive for improvement, SBS is re-inventing the way in which
the company goes to market and how it conducts its internal
processes. The central concepts include:
>re-organisation of the company around markets, instead of stores
>improved service created by deeper understanding of customer needs
>growth and expansion of value-added products and services
>development of SBS and associated brands
>reduced costs through process standardisation and improvement
SBS has already re-organised its structure in North Carolina, 
South Carolina and Georgia, consolidating five regions into two districts.
All credit, payables and purchasing functions have been centralised
at a district or central level. To support the ongoing re-organisation,
the company is recruiting national business managers who will tighten
the SBS focus on customer needs and value-added services.
1. Process management
We work closely with customers such
as the Viennese Water Company to
continuously improve our process
management expertise.
Our response
2. Price
ÖAG currently has more than 2,000
contracts to supply the products that
enable the people of Austria to enjoy
water supplies – at an affordable price.
3. Product availability
The Viennese Water Company relies on
us to deliver peace of mind as well as 
a full range of pipework, valves and
associated products. 14   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Leveraging our 
international position
Operating through 3,449 branches in 12 countries, we have access to
an extensive bank of experience and expertise that we are increasingly
leveraging in order to share benefits across the business.
During the year, we increased the focus on conducting pan-European
negotiations with major suppliers. Where in the past our brands
have sourced products independently, we are now beginning to
negotiate better value through centralised purchasing processes.
Similarly, we are examining our Group-wide purchasing patterns in
the Far East and aim to establish a collective sourcing programme
which will reduce costs. Across the Group, we buy many products
from many sources. Now we intend to make sure we enjoy the best
possible terms, as befits a major customer.
In North America and Europe, we have also focused on the 
Group’s indirect spending and identified opportunities to reduce
costs and leverage our global purchasing of items such as stationery,
telecommunications and insurance.
Increased integration and information, and data sharing, are further
examples of how we are capitalising on the international strength and
resources of the Group. IT is a key component of the plan, enabling
the organisation to effectively implement these programmes as well
as addressing duplications and encouraging synergies throughout
the business.
We are currently looking at a number of different areas to apply
technology within the Group. We plan to introduce a common
financial application across the Group over the next year. We will 
be replacing the IT systems in our Austrian operations. We have 
had a team of over thirty people, representative of all of the Group’s
operations, who have been examining ways in which the Group’s
processes and procedures can be improved. We are looking for
ways of moving towards more commonality of approach to drive
increased synergies and leveraging opportunities internationally,
across the Group.
The year also saw the introduction of a corporate ‘strapline’ for 
the first time. The descriptor ‘a Wolseley company’ now underpins
the individual identities of the brands, and serves to bring a new
cohesion and sense of unity to the different businesses. We intend
to achieve more linkage between companies and brands and 
to inspire customers and employees to recognise and value 
the connections.
The renewed emphasis on leveraging our international presence in
no way compromises our firm commitment to the principle of local
teams building local businesses which meet local customer needs.
Every Wolseley brand is strong in its own right, in its own marketplace
and we will continue to empower management to manage.
Finally, we established four Learning Centres, each sponsored by 
a member of senior management to promote common initiatives
across Wolseley. These initiatives will not only support the sharing 
of ideas and information, but will also assist in expediting the
implementation of these ideas in other areas of the business.
1. Job site management
Every delivery to the Warwick site is
made to a specific plot, as and when 
it is required – twice a day if necessary.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
From Durox and aggregate blocks to
Dunbrik flues, the customer is confident
in the price, quality and availability 
of Builder Center products.
3. Value added services
A team of Builder Center representatives
is dedicated solely to meeting the needs
of Taylor Woodrow and is constantly
innovating new and improved services. Stephen Parr > Director of 
Supply Chain > Taylor Woodrow,
Warwick, UK
Our Builder Center business in 
the UK delivers consistency and
reliability across a huge range of
projects for leading builder Taylor
Woodrow, including a major 
‘Bryant Homes’ site in Warwick.
I NEED
THE RIGHT
MATERIALS 
AT THE
RIGHT TIME
Warwick 16   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Enhancing our 
business diversity
Our products include condensers, blocks and boilers; tubes, flues
and felts; A-frames, pumps and septic tanks; plywood, softwood
and hardwood. They cover every type of fixing and ironmongery 
that you can imagine and many more that you probably can’t.
Construction, plumbing and heating professionals depend on
Wolseley for the timely delivery of a vast and ever-increasing range
of products, as we continue to implement a strategy of diversification:
of geography; of lines of business; of products and services.
The results are twofold. Firstly, we are able to meet more customer
needs in more locations. Secondly, by having a broad offering, 
we are more insulated from downturns in particular markets 
and are able to take advantage of strong markets elsewhere.
Our competitive advantage is built on an ability to offer the broadest
bundle of products and to therefore meet all customer requirements 
in one company, reducing the cost of doing business. We are trusted
partners who help our customers carry out their jobs more easily
and effectively. As we become more diverse, so the customer/
Wolseley relationship strengthens.
During the year, a number of developments enhanced our business
diversity and deepened our business relationships. In Canada, 
for example, we expanded into the distribution of High Density
Polyethylene (“HDPE”) and the Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
(“HVAC”) sector in order to more fully meet the demands of our
customers. Those customers are now reaping the rewards of our
expertise in supply chain logistics, as well as our buying power, 
and seeing the benefits in terms of fill rate, availability and price.
It is a similar story in Eastern Europe, where we have invested 
in excess of £1 million in a new distribution centre in Budapest.
Customers in Hungary are now able to enjoy levels of service
previously unavailable in the region.
In the UK, the purchase of Unifix has enhanced our catalogue sales
capability and ensured that UK customers can benefit from Wolseley
standards through their channel of choice.
We will continue to add new products and services to our existing
operations. In particular, we are keen to replicate successful models
across the Group. We will continue to add geographic diversity such
as our recent moves into the Netherlands and Canada. This diversity
is significant in providing continued steady growth of sales and profits.
1. Standard automated processes
Ferguson’s computer tracking system
routes deliveries more efficiently,
ensuring on-time service as well as
reducing unnecessary freighting costs.
Our response
2. Diverse product range
Humid weather, combined with the use
of chemicals, creates a constant need
for equipment repair and replacement.
Ferguson always carries the right range
to keep the mill in operation.
3. Project management
Regular project meetings between the
local Ferguson manager and the customer’s
purchasing team mean that we can
continue to surpass their expectations, 
in terms of service, price and availability. I NEED
REPLACEMENT
PARTS QUICKL Y
AND A T THE
RIGHT PRICE
Chea Hak > Winder operator 
at Newsprint Division, 
Alabama River Pulp Co Inc 
> Monroeville, USA
Our Ferguson business has a 
25-year relationship with the team 
at the Alabama River Pulp Co Inc,
delivering the products that keep 
the mill turning.
Monroeville I NEED
PRODUCTS THAT MEET THE
NEEDS OF MY CUSTOMERS
M. José Sebban > Owner of
Mounier Sanitaire > Lyon, France
Our Brossette business has
supported the success of 
Lyon-based Mounier Sanitaire 
for more than a decade.
Lyon 19   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Developing our 
human resources
We offer an excellent product range distributed through a diverse
network of branches. Yet it remains an indisputable fact that
customers do not buy from store locations: they buy from people.
Furthermore, it is people and not processes or technologies that
execute strategies.
We rely on our people on the ground to drive sales. Managers are
empowered to create innovative solutions to meet the changing
needs of their customers. Consequently, we continue to expand 
our commitment to the human resources function, ensuring that we
attract and retain the best and the brightest people in the industry.
There is a long tradition of loyalty within Wolseley. Many of our
people have been with the Group for most of their working lives 
and 15-20 years of service is commonplace. At the same time, 
we acknowledge the need for a ready flow of fresh thinking and
innovation. In the USA alone, our plumbing and heating business
recruits almost 500 graduates each year. These are the people 
with the skills, commitment and passion to serve that will drive 
the Wolseley brands forward in the coming years.
The Executive Development Program is delivered by the Darden
School of Business at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.
Focused squarely on teaching practical, valuable skills that can be
put to work immediately, the programme is the foundation for future
management insight and expertise. The last 12 months have seen
the number of Wolseley executives who have attended Darden rise
to over 120 and a further 40 will benefit during the current year.
Additionally, almost 80 of our most senior managers will attend a new
programme at the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland in November 2003. 
It focuses on the strategies outlined in this document and how 
they can best be executed worldwide.
We are now embarking on an international assignment programme,
which will enable managers from one part of the business to be
seconded to another. During the past year, we produced the first issue
of Directions magazine. Complementing our growing use of the
Intranet, Directions is a publication that will extend and enhance the
dialogue between managers throughout the Wolseley organisation.
The aim of both the assignment programme and the magazine is to
encourage the Group-wide sharing and understanding of best practice.
The corporate commitment to acquisitions creates a major challenge
for our HR teams. In the 12 months to 31 July, we welcomed many
thousands of new people into the organisation as a direct result of
acquisitions. The PBM purchase alone brought 5,300 people into
Wolseley. Our approach towards integration is centred on partnership
and mutual understanding: we respect cultural differences and
support new employees as they become part of the Wolseley family.
1. Relationship with the company
Brossette provides a personal, 
proactive service to Mounier Sanitaire
that accurately reflects the company’s
hands-on approach to its own customers.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
A family-run business specialising 
in bathrooms and heating, Mounier
Sanitaire consistently specifies and
recommends the Nabis range supplied
by Brossette.
3. Knowledgeable employees
The owner of Mounier Sanitaire relies 
on the sales and support experts 
at Brossette to keep him up to date 
with the latest developments. 20   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Creating innovative 
solutions to meet our 
customers’ changing needs
Ours is an ever-changing industry.
New techniques, legislation and products, together with a range 
of economic and social factors, are constantly shaping the needs 
of our customers. The building, plumbing or heating solution 
of today is the outdated, expensive concept of tomorrow.
How do we continue to meet these evolving needs?
Firstly, by investing time and drawing on our fund of industry
experience to anticipate or recognise shifts in demand and putting
the processes in place to meet them in good time. Secondly, 
by taking a proactive stance and being the driving force behind
some of those changing market needs. We play our part in the
industry by encouraging innovation within Wolseley and remaining
flexible and open to new ideas at all levels of the business.
There are a number of examples of how Wolseley innovation
delivered benefits to customers during the year under review.
Many of our branches now incorporate updated and refreshed
showrooms. As well as showcasing extended ranges from our
manufacturer partners, the showrooms also enable customers to
see ideas and product solutions in action for themselves. Express
and self-service counters have been upgraded in locations across 
all our businesses, allowing the experienced professional contractors
to buy the products they need with minimum delay.
We constantly innovate new or improved ways in which to help our
customers run their businesses more effectively. Capitalising on the
trend towards outsourcing among local authorities, Wolseley Centers
is the supply chain partner for a facilities management company
which provides maintenance and repair services for around 33,000
council-owned homes in Liverpool, UK. We supply everything from
stationery and building materials to spares and plant. In the first year
of the seven-year contract, this relationship has delivered significant
earnings for the Group while reducing costs for the customer 
and also ensuring a high level of satisfaction for the Council.
We worked closely with customers on several initiatives, listening 
to their needs and developing appropriate solutions. We’ve set 
up integrated supply solutions for industry, municipal customers 
and contractors. Furthermore, all Wolseley businesses are now
introducing own-label products to fill gaps in the marketplace 
by offering features and price points unavailable in existing lines.
Recognition is a key component of any effective innovation
programme, and this year Wolseley introduced The Wolseley Cup,
which will be awarded to the Wolseley business that has created 
the most innovative customer solution.
Connecting with our communities
We employ 46,000 people in a diverse range of communities, 
from capital cities to small rural towns. In each case, we aim to
maximise the benefits of our presence among local people while
minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
Wolseley brands are an integral part of the construction, plumbing
and heating sectors throughout North America and Europe. As you
will see from this report, we’re keen to play our part to the full. 
Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
1. Depth and breadth of product
Whissell relies on Wolseley Canada Inc
for the huge range of products involved
in the effective installation of large
pipework projects, such as fire hydrants.
Our response
2. Next day delivery
A computerised ordering process and
ready availability of products combine to
ensure that deliveries are made to meet
the precise needs of the customer.
3. Relationships with company
Personal service is the cornerstone of
the Wolseley Canada Inc advantage.
Wolseley people work closely with the
customer team to identify objectives
and monitor performance. I NEED
QUALITY PRODUCTS
AT COMPETITIVE
PRICES
Mark Dumont > Site foreman 
at Whissell Contracting 
> Calgary, Canada
Our Wolseley Canada Inc business
works closely with Whissell
Contracting, helping to sharpen 
the customer’s competitive edge 
in Calgary’s local government 
and private sectors.
Calgary 22   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Operating and
financial review
Wolseley plc is the holding company, based in Theale, England, 
of an international group of companies. It is listed on the London
Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. 
It has American Depository Receipts listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange. 
Group activities
The Wolseley Group is focussed on the distribution of plumbing and
heating products and building materials to the construction sector,
industry and government in Europe and North America. The primary
customer base is shown below:
Customer mix
Organisation structure
The Group is organised into three business segments:
> European Distribution
> North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution
> US Building Materials Distribution
The performance of each of these three divisions during the last
financial year is reviewed on pages 23 to 27.
Strategy
Wolseley is committed to providing long-term value for its shareholders
by pursuing a strategy of competing internationally in the plumbing,
heating and building materials markets. Wolseley pursues this strategy
by fostering organic growth in existing territories by opening new
branches and distribution centres, broadening the product range,
developing enhanced IT systems, promoting e-business programmes
and expanding through selective acquisitions.
Aspects of the Group’s strategy are discussed in the Chief Executive’s
review on pages 8 to 20.
Stephen P Webster
Group Finance Director
1. Plumbing installers 37%
2. Utilities 8%
3. HVAC 7%
4. Industrial 6%
5. Mechanical contractors 13%
6. Building contractors 29%
1
3
4
5
6
2
THE TRADING RESUL TS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31 JUL Y 2003 ARE A
RECORD FOR THE
GROUP FOR A SEVENTH
CONSECUTIVE YEAR 23   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Competitive position
Wolseley is the world’s largest specialist trade distributor of heating and
plumbing products with operations in 12 countries. It is the market
leading distributor of plumbing and heating products and building
materials in the USA. It has market leading positions in the plumbing
and heating business in the UK, France, Austria and Luxembourg. 
It is the number two distributor of plumbing and heating products in
Canada. Through the acquisition of Pinault Bois et Matériaux (“PBM”) 
in France it is the number two distributor of building materials in that
market. It has interests in plumbing and heating distribution in Ireland,
Italy, Denmark, The Netherlands, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Dynamics of the business
The principal business drivers relating to each of the three business
segments are shown below:
Business drivers % of Group sales
Financial targets
The Group’s overall financial objective is to increase shareholder
value by achieving, on average, double-digit growth in its sales, 
profits and earnings per share each year whilst producing a return
on gross capital in excess of the weighted average cost of capital. 
The Group’s recent growth and return on gross capital employed
over the last five years is set out below:
Group 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Growth in sales 3.2% 10.7% 12.4% 16.3% 15.7%
Growth in trading profit
1
1.9% 12.0% 7.4% 21.1% 14.9%
Growth in operating profit 1.3% 10.3% 6.2% 19.2% 12.9%
Growth in
basic earnings per share 3.1% 55.3% (3.2)% (4.2)% 12.6%
Growth in earnings per share
2
3.9% 15.1%13.5% 9.7% 16.5%
Return on
gross capital employed
3
16.7% 16.7%16.5% 16.9% 17.0%
1
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
2
The growth in earnings per share is shown before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
3
Return on gross capital employed is as defined in note 2 on page 81. Trading margin is the ratio 
of trading profit to sales expressed as a percentage.
Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators for each of the three business
segments are set out below:
European Distribution 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Sales growth 17.4% 6.2% 8.0% 12.5% 18.9%
Trading margin 6.5% 6.8% 6.7% 6.6% 5.6%
Return on
gross capital employed 18.0% 17.6% 17.4% 17.4% 16.2%
North American Plumbing
and Heating Distribution 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Sales growth (1.1)% 19.7% 17.6% 19.1% 12.8%
Trading margin 5.7% 5.6% 5.2% 5.3% 5.3%
Return on
gross capital employed 18.1% 18.0% 17.4% 18.5% 20.6%
US Building
Materials Distribution 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Sales growth (7.8)% 5.0% 29.9% 31.2% 29.5%
Trading margin 4.5% 4.9% 5.5% 6.3% 6.2%
Return on
gross capital employed 12.1% 12.6% 13.8% 16.4% 17.2%
The above percentages reflect the sterling results after the effect 
of currency translations. The effect of currency translations is
discussed on page 24.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
GROUP PERFORMANCE
Overall results
The trading results for the year ended 31 July 2003 are a record 
for the Group for a seventh consecutive year. These were achieved
despite challenging business conditions in a number of markets,
including the USA and continental Europe, and the adverse impact
of currency translation. Organic growth within the European distribution
and North American Plumbing and Heating distribution divisions was
particularly strong relative to the market. A continued improvement in
trading margin was achieved in almost all of the Group’s continental
European businesses and in the North American Plumbing and
Heating Distribution division. On a constant currency basis, Group
sales increased by 8.5% and trading profit by 6.9%. While the Group
did not in the year achieve its target of double-digit growth in sales
and earnings, the acquisition of PBM in July 2003 places the Group 
in a good position to achieve this target in the next financial year.
Turnover
After taking account of currency translation, Group sales increased
by 3.2% from £7,967.6 million to £8,221.0 million. 
Operating profit
Operating profit increased by 1.3% from £437.2 million to 
£443.0 million. Trading profit rose by 1.9% from £463.9 million 
to £472.9 million, before deducting goodwill amortisation of 
£29.9 million (2002: £26.7 million).
European
Distribution
North American
Plumbing and Heating
Distribution
US
Building Materials
Distribution
0
29%
40%
93%
8%
39%
12%
51%
9%
12% 4%
3%
40
70
80
90
100
50
60
30
20
10
 New residential
 housing
 Industrial and
 commercial
RMI
Industrial
 RMI
 Residential 24   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Currency translation
Currency translation has had a significant impact on the Group’s
reported sterling results for the year compared to the previous year,
reducing Group sales by £393.8 million (4.9%) and Group trading
profit by £21.7 million (4.7%). Over the past five years the constant
currency growth of the Group is as follows:
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Annual sales growth
in constant currency 8.5% 11.0% 6.4% 15.4% 14.7%
The effect of US dollar depreciation has been to reduce translated
US profits by £23.7 million (8.7%) compared to 2002. US dollar
denominated profits account for around 55% of the Group’s trading
profit. The strengthening of the Euro has partly mitigated the currency
effect, with Euro denominated profits accounting for around 12% 
of Group trading profit. If the results of the Group are translated into
dollars at the average rate for the year the results of the Group are
as follows:
$ million 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Sales in US$ 13,113 11,608 10,407 10,141 9,006
Trading profit in US$ 754 676 599 611 521
Operating profit in US$ 707 637 573 591 512
Further US$ figures can be found on page 82.
Interest
Net interest payable was reduced to £17.0 million (2002: £26.5 million),
reflecting lower interest rates on the Group’s borrowings and the
trading cash flow generated by the Group during the year and a
further reduction in the working capital to sales ratio. Interest cover 
is over 26 times (2002: 16 times).
Tax
The effective tax rate is unchanged at 28% and it is expected that
this will be the rate for at least the next two financial years, provided
the geographical contributions to profits remain broadly similar 
and there are no significant changes to tax legislation.
Earnings per share
Before goodwill amortisation, earnings per share increased by 
3.9% from 54.58 pence to 56.69 pence. Basic (FRS 3) earnings 
per share were up by 3.1% to 51.53 pence (2002: 49.96 pence).
The average number of shares in issue during the year was 
579.1 million (2002: 577.1 million).
Dividends
The board is recommending a final dividend of 15.6 pence per
share to be paid to shareholders registered on 3 October 2003.
Future dividend payments will be made earlier than in prior years,
with the interim dividend to be paid around the end of May and the
final dividend paid around the end of November, commencing with
the payment of the proposed final dividend on 1 December 2003.
The total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence per share is an increase
of 12.2% on last year’s 18.9 pence. The increase in dividend reflects
the board’s confidence in the future prospects of the Group and its
strong financial position. The dividend reinvestment plan will continue
to be available to eligible shareholders.
The cost of dividends paid and proposed in respect of the financial
year is £123.1 million (2002: £109.2 million). The increase of the
dividend above the rate of earnings growth reduces the dividend
cover to 2.4 times (2002: 2.6 times).
Acquisitions
The level of acquisition spend in each division will vary each year as
opportunities arise.
Following is a chart which shows the acquisition spend in each
division over the last five years:
Acquisitions by segment
£ million
The Group continues to seek acquisitions to expand all areas of its
activities. A total of 24 acquisitions were completed during the year.
Spend in the year on acquisitions, including deferred consideration,
amounted to £513 million, all of this amount was funded with debt.
The acquisitions within each division, together with their likely
contribution to turnover in a full year, may be summarised as follows:
Full year
Spend contribution
£m £m
European Distribution 451 940
North American Plumbing and 
Heating Distribution 26 74
US Building Materials Distribution 36 97
513 1,111
Operating and
financial review continued
550
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
European
Distribution
US Building
Materials
Distribution
North American
Plumbing and
Heating Distribution
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 25   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
The most significant acquisition in the year was that of PBM. 
With approximately 300 locations, it is second in the French market
for building products distribution. The acquisition gives Wolseley 
a strong position from which to develop synergies with its other
French business, Brossette and is part of its strategy of developing
a European wide presence in distribution to the construction industry.
The acquisition was completed on 7 July 2003 for m565 million on 
a debt-free basis.
Within three years the return on this acquisition is expected to be 
in excess of the Group’s current cost of capital of 16.7%.
Three additional acquisitions, for a combined consideration of 
£14.0 million, have been completed since 31 July 2003 – two in 
the North American Plumbing & Heating division and the other 
in US Building Materials. In a full year, these acquisitions will add 
a further £37 million of sales.
Financial position
Shareholders’ funds increased by £174.3 million from £1,599.9 million
to £1,774.2 million. The net increase comprised the following elements: 
£m
Retained profits 175.3
New share capital subscribed (exercise of share options) 9.4
Exchange translation (10.4)
Increase in shareholders’ funds 174.3
The movement of sterling against overseas currencies, particularly
the US dollar, resulted in a translation difference of £19.3 million which
increased borrowings on the balance sheet. Primarily due to the
acquisition of PBM in July 2003, net borrowings excluding construction
loan borrowings increased to £826.7 million at 31 July 2003
compared to £545.6 million at 31 July 2002, giving gearing 
of 46.6% compared to 34.1% at the previous year-end.
Construction loan receivables, financed by an equivalent amount 
of construction loan borrowings, were £176.2 million compared to
£171.4 million at 31 July 2002. The increase is due to an expanding
loan book, partly offset by the weaker US dollar.
Return on gross capital employed, including goodwill, is 16.7% 
(2002: 16.7%), approximately 4.0% ahead of the Group’s weighted
average cost of capital.
The unamortised balance of acquisition goodwill in the balance sheet
as at 31 July 2003 is £686.8 million (2002: £502.7 million). The increase
reflects the acquisition spend in the current year, primarily PBM.
There has been no significant change during the year concerning
asbestos claims. The estimated liability, which is fully covered by
insurance, is not material to the Group’s financial position. Insurance
cover significantly exceeds the estimated liability and is a multiple
thereof. There has been no profit and loss account charge in this, 
or any prior financial year, relating to asbestos claims and no such
charge is expected to arise in the future.
Details of the pension schemes operated by the Group are set out
in note 33 to the accounts. Were FRS 17 to have been fully adopted
in the accounts at 31 July 2003, shareholders’ funds of £1,774.2 million
would have been reduced by £108 million.
Cash flow
The cash flow performance of the Group over the last five years 
is summarised below.
Cash flow generation
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow from
operating activities 608 584 518 390 339
Maintenance Capex
1
(93) (93) (85) (74) (62)
Tax (108) (120) (91) (113) (130)
Dividends (113) (100) (91) (81) (73)
Interest (25) (23) (37) (24) 2
Free cash flow 269 248 214 98 76
Acquisitions less disposals (504) (162) (388) (163) (290)
Expansion Capex (15) (7) (28) (49) (48)
Other (31) 69 (37) (31) (5)
Movement in debt (281) 148 (239) (145) (267)
1
Maintenance Capex is considered as equivalent to depreciation.
The above demonstrates the inherently strong cash flow
characteristics of the Group. The annual free cash flow of around 
£200 million is sufficient to fund the Group’s targeted acquisition
spend each year. 
Net cash flow from operating activities increased by £23.6 million
(4.0%) from £584.1 million to £607.7 million due to an improvement
in working capital offset by the translation effect of a weaker dollar on
the cash flows of the US businesses. The average working capital 
to sales ratio reduced from 16.0% last year to 15.4% achieving the
target of 15.5% a year early. The increase in net capital expenditure
to £108.2 million (2002: £96.8 million), reflected the continued
investment in the business.
DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE
European Distribution
The division produced 36.0% (2002: 31.6%) of the Group’s turnover
and 40.9% (2002: 36.9%) of the Group’s trading profit.
Of the European markets in which the Group operates the UK
remained the most positive whilst markets in continental Europe
were broadly flat.
Sales for the division increased by 17.4% from £2,517.5 million to
£2,956.7 million, including £258.1 million (10.3%) which relates to
acquisitions. The organic increase in sales was 4.6%. Trading profit
rose by 12.7% from £171.4 million to £193.2 million.
The divisional trading margin reduced from 6.8% to 6.5% of sales,
due to a reduction in the UK and French trading margins. The UK
trading margin reduction was, as previously reported, due to the
move to two new distribution centres. 26   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
UK and Ireland
Wolseley Centers took advantage of a strong UK market where 
the principal driver was the repairs, maintenance and improvement
(“RMI”) market which was buoyed by strong consumer demand
against the backdrop of lower interest rates, low unemployment 
and house price inflation. Despite the weakness in the industrial 
and commercial markets and the lack of any real evidence of the
promised increase in government spending, Centers’ sales increased 
by 12.6% to £1,888.8 million, including organic growth of 6.9%.
Each of the four divisions improved their gross margins compared 
to last year, Lightside being the strongest business performer. 
The move to two new distribution centres during the course of last
year and the first half of this year had the expected adverse impact
on costs (including one-off costs of £1.6 million in 2003). In addition,
153 new locations were added during the year taking the total for
Wolseley Centers to 1,372. The significance of these investments
will be reflected in future trading, both in terms of supporting
continued growth and in the generation of further operational
efficiencies. These efficiencies were reflected in an improved margin
in the second half of the year, with the prospect of further margin
improvement in the future. Trading margin for the year as a whole
was 7.6% compared to 7.8% in 2002 and the working capital to
sales ratio showed a significant improvement due to a focus on
inventory management.
France
The French construction market was flat during the year with high
levels of unemployment continuing to have a negative impact on
consumer confidence.
Local currency sales in Brossette were slightly up on last year due
mainly to acquisitions and four new branch openings. Confronted
with poor market conditions, Brossette has undertaken an exercise
to reorganise its branch and management structure, which will be
carried out in the financial year to July 2004.
PBM contributed m112.0 million (£74.4 million) of sales relating to
the period between the acquisition date of 7 July 2003 and the year
end. PBM will make a significant contribution to sales and profits 
in 2004, offering new opportunities for growth and synergies within
the Group. Integration benefits are expected to be generated by a
diversification by product, by customer and by geography and from
the use in both PBM and Brossette of the ‘branch within a branch’
concept which has been so successful in the UK. 
Rest of Europe
The Group’s other continental European operations made good
progress and all improved their trading margins, despite uninspiring
markets. In Austria the new housing market was flat and increased
competition put pressure on prices, resulting in ÖAG’s sales falling
marginally. However, due to strong cost control, trading profit was
up 3.8%. Good progress is being achieved in Hungary with sales 
up 13% in local currency, while sales were down slightly in the
Czech Republic. In Italy, last year’s new branch openings helped
performance in a flat market in which Manzardo increased sales 
by 10.3% and trading profit by nearly 50%. CFM, in Luxembourg,
increased sales by 1.7% in a construction market which has fallen
5% in recent months. Trading profit increased by 8.0% and the
trading margin reached 6.0% for the first time. The deteriorating
economy in The Netherlands has affected the construction project
and new housing markets but, despite this, Wasco has made
progress expanding its product range and developing its offering 
to the more profitable RMI market. The spares business performed
particularly well, with growth in sales of more than 35%.
The division has made progress in implementing its European
strategy to manage the businesses in a more cohesive way. 
Further investment is planned over the next year to put in place the
infrastructure necessary to obtain cross-border synergies, facilitate
the sharing of best practice and accelerate the benefits from the
growth opportunities that exist. This year a further 467 branches were
added to the European network, giving a total of 2,266 locations 
at 31 July 2003 (2002: 1,799).
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution
The division produced 43.2% (2002: 45.1%) of the Group’s turnover
and 42.7% (2002: 43.3%) of the Group’s trading profit. 
Business conditions for the Group’s North American Plumbing 
and Heating Distribution operations continued to vary both
geographically and by market segment.
Due to the adverse impact of currency translation, sales of the division
were down by 1.1% from £3,592.4 million to £3,551.5 million. Trading
profit increased by 0.7% from £200.7 million to £202.2 million.
Currency translation reduced divisional sales by £294.9 million (8.2%)
and trading profit by £16.6 million (8.3%).
Both the US and Canadian businesses increased market share 
and showed strong sales and profit growth in local currency terms.
Local currency sales in the USA rose by 6.8%, mostly due to the full
year effect of the acquisition of Clayton in 2002 and 0.3% organic
growth against a market that fell around 2%. In Canada local
currency sales increased by 14.5%, of which 6.1% was organic
compared with a market that increased by around 2%.
Ferguson Enterprises
Despite a sluggish US economy that included a continued
weakness in the commercial and industrial segments, Ferguson
produced strong results due to the continued strength in the RMI
and housing markets, the successful integration and performance 
of the Clayton Group and positive progress with the integration 
of Familian Northwest. The markets of Texas, upper midwest,
northwest, Atlanta and Denver were particularly weak areas 
whereas Southern California remained strong throughout.
Local currency trading profit for the USA plumbing operations
increased by 10.1% reflecting an increase in the gross margin as 
a result of the continuing benefits from the distribution centre network.
The distribution network will be further boosted with the opening 
of the Richland distribution centre, in the State of Washington, 
in November 2003. The trading margin, at 5.7%, was up on the
prior year’s margin of 5.6%. This upward trend is consistent with 
the objective of achieving a 6% trading margin in 2004, a year
ahead of the original schedule.
Operating and
financial review continued 27   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Wolseley Canada
The Canadian residential market was buoyant throughout the year,
enabling Wolseley Canada to produce strong organic sales growth.
Despite continued weakness in the British Columbia market, new
management achieved a promising improvement in profitability. 
The business achieved double-digit organic sales growth in the
heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (“HVAC/R”)
market against the background of a declining market. Local
currency trading profit in Canada rose by 15.5%, with a slightly
increased trading margin.
There was a net increase of 21 branches in North American Plumbing
and Heating Distribution from 940 to 961 locations at 31 July 2003.
US Building Materials Distribution
The division produced 20.8% (2002: 23.3%) of the Group’s turnover
and 16.4% (2002: 19.8%) of the Group’s trading profit.
The performance of the US Building Materials division Stock Building
Supply (“SBS”) was negatively impacted both by currency translation
and by lower lumber prices. Reported sales were £1,712.8 million,
down 7.8% (2002: £1,857.7 million), with currency translation
having caused a reduction of £161.0 million (8.7%). Trading profit
was £77.5 million (2002: £91.8 million), down 15.6%, with a currency
impact of £8.3 million (9.0%). An increase in the gross margin as 
a result of more value added sales partly mitigated the effect of the
lower lumber prices, but the net margin ended at 4.5% compared
to 4.9% in 2002, due to the division having to handle greater volumes
of lumber at lower average prices. Net average monthly working
capital was reduced from 86.6 days in 2002 to 74.0 days this year,
primarily as a result of the successful negotiation of improved
vendor terms.
In local currency, sales were up 1.0% to $2,732.3 million 
(2002: $2,706.5 million). Closed branches, following the reorganisation
of operations in Utah and Idaho, reduced sales by $51.1 million whilst
the incremental impact of acquisitions added $111.7 million of sales.
Commodity lumber prices, which directly affect around 40% of SBS’
product range, fell 8.3% compared to the previous year’s average,
to $287 per thousand board feet (2002: $313). This had the effect
of reducing sales by approximately $77.9 million (2.9%) and trading
profit by $13.2 million (9.9%). Like-for-like sales volumes were higher
in the year with organic growth from ongoing branches up around 1%.
Housing has generally been a bright spot in the US economy 
over the past year. The levels of new residential housing starts, 
which typically account for around 90% of the activity in this division,
remain strong overall at around 1.6 million starts. Although there has
been a short-term trend towards lower value housing, the inventory
of unsold new homes at around four months, compared to the
longer term average of around six months, further demonstrates 
the overall strength of the housing market. There continues to be
significant variations in regional housing markets with certain areas
where SBS operates having seen notable weakness, in particular
Atlanta, Detroit, South Florida and Raleigh Durham. Other markets such
as Los Angeles, Tampa, Salt Lake City/Ogden and Washington DC
offset some of the weakness.
SBS is in the process of adjusting its management structure 
and approach in response to changes in its market to take better
advantage of its size, technology and acquisition opportunities. 
This corporate re-engineering project (“NOVA”), is on track and
should produce cost savings of $5 million this financial year and at
least $10 million per annum thereafter. The company is reorganising
around markets rather than individual locations and is moving from
25 regions to 10 districts this financial year. SBS also plans to
increase the number of value-added products and services being
offered and increase the penetration of the RMI market.
There was a net increase of six locations in the division during 
the year to bring the total to 222 as at 31 July 2003 (2002: 216).
GROUP OUTLOOK
The underlying performance of the Group remains strong against 
a background of mixed and uncertain market conditions, which are
unlikely to change significantly in the short-term.
In the UK, the RMI market will continue to be the main driver of
growth with increasing benefits arising from the expected expansion
in government spending. The upward trend in the second half UK
trading margin is expected to continue. 
Continental European markets have been difficult and are likely 
to remain flat, but the Group expects a continuation of the trend
seen over the last year with the Group’s businesses generally
outperforming local markets and achieving a modest improvement
in sales and profitability. 
US housing demand is expected to remain strong unless there 
are significant increases in levels of unemployment and/or interest 
rates. Regional variations are likely to continue but the positive
fundamental drivers of demand should help to underpin the
sustainability of the housing market. Activity in the remodelling
sector is likely to be boosted by the positive impact on RMI from 
the tendency for more Americans to stay at home. The industrial
and commercial sector is unlikely to improve until at least the
second half of 2004.
In Canada the SARS epidemic, the power outages in Ontario and the
recent forest fires in British Columbia have had an adverse short-term
impact on the economy and, consequently, the Canadian business has
made a slower than expected start to the financial year. However, it is
expected that the overall environment will recover and remain positive. 
The Group is well placed to deliver value enhancing opportunities
from organic and acquisitive growth. 
Additional investment in the Group’s infrastructure over the next
financial year will create opportunities for achieving synergies and
leveraging the Group’s international strengths while supporting the
Group’s objective of achieving double-digit sales and profit growth. 28   Operating and financial review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Operating and
financial review continued
CAPITAL STRUCTURE & TREASURY POLICY
Treasury risk management
The Group is exposed to market risks arising from its international
operations. The Group has well defined and consistently applied
policies for the management of foreign exchange and interest rate
exposures. There has been no change since the year-end in the
major financial risks faced by the Group. The main risks arising from
the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk
and foreign currency risk. The treasury committee of the board
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and
they are summarised below. These policies are regularly reviewed.
The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise
borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such 
as trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its
operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions
(principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency
contracts). The purpose of such transactions is to hedge certain
interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations
and its sources of finance. 
Details of financial instruments are shown in note 32 to the accounts. 
Derivatives are also used to a limited extent to hedge movements 
in the price paid for lumber. These options and futures hedging
contracts mature within one year and all are with organised
exchanges. The Group’s policy is to control credit risk by only
entering into financial instruments with authorised counterparties
after taking account of their credit rating. 
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s
policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative
transactions be undertaken.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained
profits and bank and other borrowings. The Group borrows in the
desired currencies principally at floating rates of interest and then
uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile,
so managing the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
At the year end approximately £267.6 million of the Group’s net
borrowings were at fixed rates for one year or more after taking
account of swaps. 
The Group reviews deposits and borrowings by currency at treasury
committee and board meetings. The treasury committee gives prior
approval to any variations from floating rate arrangements.
Liquidity risk
The Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible,
cost-effective borrowings structure. The Group’s policy is to ensure
that, as a minimum, all projected net borrowing needs are covered
by committed facilities arranged and provided by the corporate
office, supplemented where appropriate by local facilities.
The Group’s strong cash flow and low gearing are such that the
ratio of net debt to EBITDA for the year was 1.46:1. This has
increased on the prior year principally due to the acquisition of PBM
in July 2003. In the absence of significant acquisitions, the Group
would anticipate having surplus funds within the medium term.
Given these circumstances it has been concluded that funding
sources with a maturity of more than seven years are inappropriate
at the present time.
The principal source of funds to the Group is committed bank debt.
A mix of term loans and revolving credit facilities are used to obtain
the desired currency and maturity profile. Historically, the Group has
entered into large syndicated loan facilities; no syndications were
launched during the financial year. Over the last three years a number
of bilateral facilities have been agreed. This approach has enabled
the Group to adjust its funding profile to match more precisely its
investment profile and strengthen its relationships with its core banks. 
During the year, the Group entered into six new bilateral facilities, 
four of the facilities were denominated in Euros and two were
denominated in US dollars; at the year-end exchange rates, the sterling
value of these facilities was £247 million. One of these facilities is 
a short-term facility of one year for the amount of m150 million which
was used to fund the acquisition of PBM. The Group is currently
negotiating the refinancing of this facility.
In addition, prior to acquisition PBM had a debtor securitisation
programme for m70 million. Following the acquisition, it has been
agreed that this facility should continue.
During the year, the Group entered into negotiations to refinance
SBS’ Construction Loan Program through a syndicated loan. In early
September a three year facility for US$ 300 million was completed.
In addition the Group has a £200 million bank overdraft facility and 
a number of other uncommitted facilities which enable the Group 
to maintain short-term flexibility.
The year-end maturity profile of the Group’s centrally managed
facilities was as follows:
Facility
£m
Less than one year 402
1-2 years 239
2-3 years 31
3-4 years 425
4-5 years 71
5-6 years 49
Total 1,217
As at the year end, undrawn committed facilities are as follows:
Facility
£m
Less than one year 127
1-2 years nil
Over two years nil
Foreign currency risk
The Group has significant overseas businesses whose revenues are
mainly denominated in the currencies of the countries in which the
operations are located. Approximately 59.2% of the Group’s sales are 
in US dollars. The Group does not have significant foreign currency
cash flows arising from transactions. 29   Operating and financial review
However, those that do arise are generally hedged with either
forward contracts or currency options. The Group does not normally
hedge profit translation exposure since such hedges have only
temporary effect. Most of the foreign currency earnings generated
by the Group’s overseas operations are reinvested in the business
to fund growth in those territories. The Group’s policy is to maintain
the majority of its debt in the currencies of its operating companies
as this hedges both the net assets and cash flows of the Group.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas
earnings, and of year-end exchange rates used in the translation 
of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by 
the Group are shown in note 30 to the accounts. The net effect 
of currency translation was to decrease turnover by £393.8 million
(4.9%) and to reduce trading profit by £21.7 million (4.7%).
These currency effects reflect a movement of the average sterling
exchange rate against each of the major currencies with which the
Group is involved as follows:
(Strengthening)/
weakening of sterling %
US dollar (8.7)
Euro 7.0
Fair value of financial instruments
As set out in note 32 to the accounts, there is no significant
difference between the book value and fair value of financial
instruments as at 31 July 2003.
Market price risk
The Group regularly monitors its interest rate and currency risk by
reviewing the effect on profit before tax over various periods of a
range of possible changes in interest rates and exchange rates. 
On the basis of the Group’s analysis it is estimated that the maximum
effect of a rise of one percentage point in the principal interest rates
on the Group’s continuing businesses would result in an increase in
the interest charge of approximately £5.2 million. Similarly, it is estimated
that a strengthening of sterling by 10% against all the currencies in
which the Group does business would reduce profit before tax 
by approximately £31.1 million (7.3%) due to currency translation. 
OTHER FINANCIAL MATTERS
Shareholder return
The Group monitors relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
for incentive purposes (as set out on page 45) and for assessing
relative financial performance.
At 31 July 2003, Wolseley achieved an annualised TSR of 27.31%
based on the average closing price achieved during July 2003,
which put it in eighth position against the monitored peer group 
of 70 companies drawn from the FTSE 100 and the building
materials and construction sectors utilised for the latest award 
under the long-term incentive plan (noted on page 45). The principal
exclusions from the FTSE 100 in deriving the peer group are
financial services, telecommunications, IT and utility companies. 
We continue to monitor return on capital including goodwill,
throughout the Group, as one of the key measures of business
performance. Return on gross capital employed (as defined on 
page 81) was unchanged on last year at 16.7%, well ahead of 
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, thereby generating
additional shareholder value. At the close of business on the date of
the Directors’ Report, the value of an ordinary share as quoted in the
Financial Times was 716.3 pence per share (2002: 458.0 pence), 
an increase of 56%. The market capitalisation of the Group at that
date was £4,160 million (2002: £2,647million). The total dividend 
of 21.2 pence per share in respect of the financial year gives 
a yield of 3.0%, based on the above market value of the shares. 
Financial reporting
The Group’s accounting policies fully reflect the requirements of the
Accounting Standards Board (“ASB”). 
There have been no new Financial Reporting Standards issued in the
period and no changes to the Group’s selected accounting policies. 
Under the transitional arrangements contained within FRS 17,
(Retirement Benefits), the Group has continued to adopt the rules
set out in SSAP 24 for pensions accounting during the financial
year. Note 33 to the accounts includes the additional disclosures
required by FRS 17. The ASB has announced that mandatory
adoption of FRS 17 has been deferred and will not apply until
periods ending on or after 22 June 2005.
Insurance
The insurance arrangements of the Group are reviewed annually.
The Group has a captive insurance company which is registered
and operational in the Isle of Man. No policies are written for 
third parties. The administration is undertaken by a specialist
management company.
Going concern
The directors are confident, on the basis of current financial
projections and facilities available, that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts. 
Cautionary statement
The OFR and other sections of this report contain forward looking
statements that are subject to risk factors associated with the building
materials and construction sectors. It is believed that the expectations
reflected in these statements are reasonable, but they may be affected
by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends
to differ materially, including but not limited to, risks associated 
with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing
and heating and building materials markets in North America and
Europe, risks associated with Wolseley’s growth strategy (including
the ability to identify suitably priced acquisitions), fluctuations in
product pricing and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Stephen P Webster
Group Finance Director
Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 30   Our directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
1 2 34
567 8
910 11 12
Our directors 31   Our directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
1. John W Whybrow
1,3,4
Chairman
First appointed to the board on 1 August 1997. Mr Whybrow 
was Deputy Chairman until his appointment as Chairman on 
13 December 2002. He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees and Chairman of the Nominations Committee. 
Mr Whybrow is a Non Executive Director of Dixons Group plc 
and was President and Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting
Holding B.V., based in The Netherlands, until 2001 and Executive
Vice President, Philips Electronics from 1998 until March 2002,
when he returned to the UK. Age 56.
2. Charles A Banks
2,3,5
Group Chief Executive
First appointed to the board on 1 August 1992, Mr Banks was
appointed Group Chief Executive on 3 May 2001. He was previously
Chief Executive of Ferguson Enterprises and spent 34 years with
that company. He is a Non Executive Director of Bunzl plc and 
of Harbor Bank which is headquartered in Virginia, USA. Age 62.
3. Jacques-Régis Descours
2
Chief Executive, Wolseley France
First appointed to the board on 1 September 1998. Mr Descours
joined Brossette in 1984 and was appointed its Finance Director 
on 1 January 1992. He was appointed Deputy Managing Director of
Brossette in November 1994 and Managing Director on 1 February 1997.
His responsibilities were extended to include the business of 
Pinault Bois et Matériaux following completion of the acquisition 
on 7 July 2003. Age 55.
4. Fenton N Hord 
2
Chief Executive, US Building Materials Distribution
First appointed to the board on 2 October 2000. He joined the
Group as Chief Executive of Stock Building Supply Inc in 1987. 
Prior to then, Mr Hord was President of Eskimo Pie Corporation, 
a subsidiary of Reynolds Metals Co. He is a Non Executive Director
of Reeds Jewelers Inc. Age 56.
5. Claude ‘Chip’ A S Hornsby 
2
Chief Executive, US Plumbing and Heating Division
First appointed to the board on 3 May 2001. Responsible for 
the US Plumbing and Heating Division which incorporates 
Ferguson, Familian Northwest and the US business of Westburne, 
the Canadian group acquired in 2001. Mr Hornsby has 
spent 25 years with Ferguson. Age 47.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Executive Committee
3 Member of the Nominations Committee 4 Member of the Remuneration Committee
5 Member of the Treasury Committee 6 Trustee of the UK Pension Scheme
6. Gérard Legtmann 
2
Chief Executive Europe
First appointed to the board on 15 August 2003. Mr Legtmann 
was previously with Brambles, where he was most recently President
and Chief Executive Officer of the company’s Chicago based
worldwide rental activities and Chairman of Brambles North America.
Prior to Brambles, he held senior executive positions with ABB and 
General Electric. Age 40.
7. Stephen P Webster
2,5
Group Finance Director
Chartered Accountant. First appointed to the board on 1 August 1994
as Group Finance Director designate. Appointed as Group Finance
Director on 9 December 1994. Formerly a partner in Price Waterhouse.
He is a Non Executive Director of Bradford & Bingley plc. Age 50.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
8. John M Allan
1,4
First appointed to the board on 1 June 1999. He is a member 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Mr Allan is currently 
Chief Executive of Exel plc and a Non Executive Director of PHS
Group Plc. He is a member of the CBI’s Presidents’ Committee 
and is President of the Freight Transport Association. Age 55.
9. Gareth Davis
1
First appointed to the board on 1 July 2003. He is a member of 
the Audit Committee. Mr Davis has been Chief Executive of Imperial
Tobacco Group plc, since its incorporation in 1996, having spent
the last 30 years in the tobacco industry. Age 53.
10. James I K Murray
1
First appointed to the board on 12 April 2002. He is Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and is a Non Executive Director of UK Coal PLC. 
Mr Murray was Finance Director of Land Securities PLC from 1991
until his retirement in 2001. Age 57.
11. Robert M Walker
3,4
First appointed to the board on 1 July 1999. He is Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations
Committee. Mr Walker is currently Group Chief Executive of 
Severn Trent Plc. He previously worked for Procter and Gamble,
McKinsey and Company and for over 20 years with PepsiCo Inc.,
where he was a Division President. Age 58.
12. Mark J White
2,6
Group Company Secretary
A solicitor who joined Wolseley on 1 July 2002. Mr White is
secretary to the Audit, Nominations, Treasury and Remuneration
Committees and is a member of the Executive Committee. 
Mr White was previously Company Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc
and Rotork plc. Age 43. Our community
We are an international business
working in and with our 
local communities.
Project 118 Youth Ranch
Wolseley Canada has contributed time,
money and materials and has helped
raise funds for the building and running
costs of a Youth Ranch located just
outside Calgary.
Chesapeake Bay, Newport News
Ferguson has donated broken and
damaged sanitary ware to a local project
to encourage the return of oysters to
Chesapeake Bay. The donated sanitary
ware is broken up and used to create 
a reef in the Bay for the oysters.
Construction Industry Trust for Youth
Agnes Nteziryayo was one of 20 London
teenagers who got a chance to work 
on a building project, thanks to the 
‘First Start for Young People Training
Scheme’. The scheme is operated by
Caxton Islington Training Unit (part of 
the Kier Group). The Wolseley donation 
to CITY trust will be used to help 
similar projects.
House for Humanity
One of 12 new ‘Habitat for Humanity’
homes in Raleigh, North Carolina, to
which Stock Building Supply has donated
products and services. The programme
builds houses for less fortunate families
who earn their houses by participating 
in the building process.
Ferguson breaks ground on 
Habitat for Humanity house
To commemorate its 50th anniversary,
Ferguson broke ground to begin
construction on a house in Williamsburg,
Virginia. The Pressey family, who will
purchase the home upon completion,
attended the ceremony and the children
signed their names in wet concrete to
mark the occasion. 33   Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate social 
responsibility report
Although the environmental impact of our distribution activities is
comparatively low, we do recognise that sound Corporate Social
Responsibility policies and practices are fundamental to business
success. We demonstrate this belief in many ways, ranging from
how we run our businesses to the support that we provide to the
communities in which we operate.
Health, safety and environment
A key driver of the Group’s success has been the high degree of
autonomy which has been afforded to local managements, allowing
them to serve local markets in the most appropriate manner. Within
this decentralised structure, the board has set down a number of
health, safety and environment principles with which all businesses
are required to comply.
The principles relating to environment cover: the integration of
environmental management into business operations; a commitment
to the adoption and achievement of best practice wherever this 
is practicable; a commitment to prevent pollution; compliance with
local environmental legislation; the adoption where practicable of
local formal environmental management systems; a commitment 
to strive for continual improvement; and a commitment to ensure
proper communication with employees on environmental matters.
The health and safety principles require local management to have
in place suitable procedures to ensure compliance with applicable
laws and regulations and, wherever possible, to employ best practice.
These principles are applied within the Group’s business in many ways.
The following examples are representative:
Lumber
The vast majority of suppliers to our US building materials
distribution business, Stock Building Supply, hold certifications 
from recognised forestry sustainability agencies such as the
American Forest Products Association and the Canadian Standards
Association. The American Forest Products Association’s Sustainable
Forest Initiative programme requires participants to meet an exacting
standard of environmental principles, objectives and performance
measures. This standard integrates the perpetual growing and
harvesting of trees with the protection of wildlife, plants, soil and
water quality, together with a wide range of conservation goals.
While there remains a negligible amount of product sourced from
non-certified sources, Stock Building Supply constantly reviews
suppliers’ policies and encourages sustainable forestry management.
Suppliers are required to verify and certify their stated environmental
practices and there is constant dialogue along the supply chain.
Stock Building Supply educates and trains its employees on
environmental matters and promotes the development of innovative
alternative building materials such as the incorporation of composite
brick moulding into exterior portions of its Portrait Series windows
which will ensure that jambs do not rot but are pliable and can 
be painted. Following consultation with customers and suppliers,
the company’s Portrait Series windows now consist entirely of
component parts, vinyl or wood from sustainable sources, offering
both more value to the customer and conservative use of resources.
The majority of timber that our recently acquired business, Pinault
Bois et Matériaux (“PBM”), imports into France is softwood which 
is sourced from suppliers who hold certifications, or who are seeking
certifications, from the Forest Stewardship Council or from the 
Pan European Forest Council, which, like the American and Canadian
forestry associations promote sustainable forestry management.
PBM also imports a small quantity of hardwood and ensures that 
its suppliers have not been censured by the United Nations, as part
of resolution number 2001/1343. PBM works with its suppliers to
ensure the application of appropriate environmental and conservation
standards, especially where certification has not yet been awarded,
such as in Russia. Forest Stewardship Council certification is also
being sought for PBM’s own Cerland range of garden products.
Waste management
Brossette in France has installed containers at each of its branches
for the collection of plastic/paper, wood and metal for recycling.
Brossette is about to begin piloting a scheme that will allow its
customers to benefit from third party environmental services,
particularly in the field of waste removal and recycling which 
would complement its existing recycling programme. ÖAG in 
Austria continues to operate its waste management strategy 
that has been in place since 1994 and which streams waste 
for collection and reprocessing by specialist contractors.
Environment
The US Virginia Marine Resources Commission is seeking to stimulate
the oyster population by using porcelain pieces as a substitute for
oyster shell on a sanctuary reef in Chesapeake Bay. It is hoped that
the oyster population will increase tenfold by 2010. Ferguson is
contributing damaged and broken toilets which would otherwise
have been thrown away and has solicited the help of its employees
based in the Head Office in Newport News and elsewhere.
Wolseley Centers in the UK has formed an environmental steering
group comprising senior managers and local board directors. 
The Group identifies ways in which environmental issues can 
be captured and improvements made. The Group has reviewed
Wolseley Centers’ Environmental Policy and a revised policy has
been issued by Centers’ Chief Executive. This policy set out the
Company’s position to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Commitment was made to continuous improvement in environmental
performance, the prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency
in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other
raw materials. An extensive internal communication exercise is now
underway, aimed at explaining the objectives and the way in which
each employee can contribute.
Timber purchasing was identified as an important environmental
area. Purchasing has been restricted to a nucleus of approved
suppliers who can demonstrate that their products have been
obtained from sustainable sources with managed reforestation
policies. It has also been decided to reinforce current practices
through Timber Center and Builder Center, both of which sell timber
in the UK. Timber Center has begun to seek Forest Stewardship
Council (“FSC”) accreditation for its branches, with the first branches
being expected to complete the accreditation process by the end 
of 2003. Appropriate Builder Center branches will then seek their
own FSC accreditation. 34   Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Transport is another key area for Wolseley Centers. Tight controls
are enforced to ensure that the minimum number of vehicles operate
out of each site and emphasis is placed upon route planning to
minimise delivery journeys. Trials with shared transport across clusters
of branches have taken place and early indications suggest transport
wastage and route duplication have been reduced.
Significant investment has been made in distribution warehousing.
Multiple stock replenishment deliveries to branches from suppliers
have been reduced as loads are consolidated in Centers’ own
distribution warehouses for onward delivery. Consolidating loads
reduces the number of supplier vehicles on the road while minimising
the local impact around branches. Centers’ transport group 
seeks to operate best practice policies which include: continuous
monitoring of new design and technological improvements to vehicles
so that informed decisions can be taken when future vehicle purchases
are made; continuous attention to servicing programmes which
include regular emissions checks to ensure vehicle efficiency; 
and a reduced emissions and tyre pressure management system 
for optimal fleet use. Equipment has been installed at distribution
warehouses to bale and recycle cardboard and hard plastic.
Ferguson in the USA has been using a transportation management
system for its 1,200 diesel powered delivery vehicles. The system
optimises the delivery of goods from distribution centres to branches
as well as directly to customers, thereby reducing handling and
transport costs together with vehicle emissions. The new system is
now being implemented at a branch level and significant savings are
expected to be achieved. Ferguson has a policy of sourcing vehicles
from a supplier with a leading reputation in environmentally friendly
diesel technology. The engines for all replacement vehicles are
certified to meet the US Government’s 2007 standard for particulate
emissions. Ferguson is also seeking to take full advantage of new
digital valve technology to improve air quality and fuel economy
throughout its entire distribution network.
As part of Stock Building Supply’s transport management programme,
many suppliers back-load their delivery vehicles to avoid wasteful
return journeys. This initiative is part of a programme that also
includes investment in a national fleet management and servicing
system aimed at achieving optimal fleet efficiency and curbing
excessive emissions. An extensive programme of education has
ensured that an appropriate level of capital expenditure is invested
in new environmentally friendly vehicles. These vehicles incorporate
emission and fuel economy technologies which already comply 
with forthcoming US Government standards. In common with 
other Wolseley companies, Stock Building Supply’s maintenance
programme seeks to improve both safety and fuel efficiency by
increasing reliability through the direct purchase of spare parts 
and also by rigorous tyre management.
Stock Building Supply’s distribution centres were designed to facilitate
product delivery by rail. More than 50% of deliveries to the distribution
centres are made in this way, with over 10,000 wagon loads (equivalent
to some 40,000 lorry loads) received during the last year alone.
Delivery by rail is encouraged and is expected to continue to grow.
Brossette in France is implementing a reorganisation programme to
reduce the number of warehouses and to regroup branches in order
to improve productivity and customer service while at the same 
time reducing the number of delivery journeys and transport costs.
Brossette has a national fleet maintenance programme in place,
which seeks to secure optimal use of its delivery vehicles while
minimising the impact on the environment. Brossette seeks to 
take advantage of technological improvements when renewing its
fleet to both reduce emissions and to optimise fuel consumption. 
Our recently acquired business in France, PBM, has embarked
upon a fleet renewal programme to increase fuel efficiency, improve
safety and reduce both emissions and transport costs. Fleet efficiency
is underpinned by a national fleet management programme which
ensures uniform operating standards. PBM ensures that its drivers’
training is maintained and seeks ways of encouraging good driving.
Health and safety
Stock Building Supply has a safety committee with responsibility 
for developing, introducing and monitoring the effectiveness 
of the company’s overall safety programme and objectives. 
The committee comprises employees with different perspectives
and from varied disciplines. Each branch manager is responsible
and accountable for health and safety at his or her branch, 
including compliance with regulations, safety awareness and accident
prevention. All new employees are given induction training relating 
to safe working practices and hazards present in the workplace.
Training is also provided when an employee is requested to handle
new processes, procedures or equipment. Monthly mandatory
safety meetings are held at each branch during which, as a minimum,
topics designated by the safety committee must be discussed. Safety
issues within each branch are dealt with by a safety coordinator or
local safety committee consisting of a cross section of employees.
Wolseley Centers has a health and safety committee, supported by
the health and safety department. This comprises senior managers
and local board directors. The committee reviews the UK Group’s
performance in health and safety matters, promotes good practice
and ensures appropriate consultation on any intended changes to
the health and safety management systems. All branch and area
managers are trained in this area and all employees are trained 
to complete their daily tasks in a safe manner.
Brossette has a central health and safety committee which oversees
the work carried out by the health and safety committees in individual
branches. Representatives of the company and employees sit on
each local committee, together with an occupational health doctor.
All new employees and managers receive appropriate induction and
training which includes matters related to health and safety. PBM
launched a company-wide education programme during the year to
increase awareness of the importance of health and safety matters
throughout the business. The programme reinforces the fact that
each person throughout the company has both a responsibility and
a part to play in maintaining and improving health and safety standards.
Acquisitions
A great deal of importance is placed on environmental and health
and safety matters during the due diligence process for acquisitions.
External environmental consultants review and assess environmental
risks to which the Group could potentially become exposed.
Corporate social 
responsibility report continued 35   Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Depending upon the type of proposed acquisition, this assessment
could include reviews of environmental management systems,
compliance with laws and regulations and the respect and care
shown for the environment. Health and safety compliance and
processes are also considered as part of the process. Appropriate
dialogue with, and indemnities from, the proposed vendors are
sought where appropriate.
Code of ethics
A Group-wide Code of Ethics was drawn up during the year. 
This sets out a number of fundamental principles which all
companies and employees are expected to follow. In keeping 
with our decentralised approach, businesses were required 
to adopt their own codes which respected local cultures and
businesses but which also set standards that are no less exacting 
than those detailed in the Group-wide Code. To a large extent, 
these individual codes simply underpinned and endorsed existing
practices. The Group-wide Code covers many areas including 
fair competition, compliance with laws, including anti-trust laws,
maintenance of the Group’s reputation for integrity (including 
a prohibition on bribery and general principles for dealing with
suppliers and authorities). The Group-wide Code can be viewed 
on the Company’s website at www.wolseley.com or a printed 
copy is available from the Company Secretary.
Community relations
Notwithstanding the international nature of the business, the Group
continues to operate with a high degree of autonomy, working in
and with our local communities. We recognise our responsibility to
invest in the communities in which our businesses operate and to
act as a good corporate citizen. Wolseley has also recently become
a member of Business in the Community in the UK. We are looking
forward to working with that organisation to help develop our
approach and practice.
The Group’s businesses are involved in a wide range of initiatives 
for the benefit of local communities, of which the following are
representative:
As part of its 50th Anniversary celebrations, Ferguson will be
providing materials and labour for the construction of a Habitat for
Humanity house in Williamsburg, Virginia. Stock Building Supply 
is currently supplying materials and project planning as well as
securing reduced or no-cost products from other material suppliers
for two such homes in Hudson and Baldwin, Wisconsin. Some of
the prefabrication work for the house in Hudson was carried out 
by prisoners at the St Croix Correctional Facility with the help 
of volunteers from Habitat for Humanity. Habitat for Humanity 
is a non-profit organisation which seeks to eliminate substandard
housing and homelessness from the world. Future homeowners 
are required to invest their own labour into building their house which
is then sold to them at no profit with affordable, no interest loans.
The American Cancer Society has embarked upon a unique project
to build a Hope Lodge in Durham, North Carolina. This will provide
accommodation exclusively for children undergoing treatment at the
Duke University Medical Center for cancer, genetic defects and blood
disorders. The paediatric Hope Lodge will also provide unlimited
accommodation for the children’s families, relieving some of the
financial burden so that they can concentrate on providing critical
emotional support. Stock Building Supply has committed to provide
building materials for the construction of the Lodge and to procuring
supplies of materials from third parties at nil or reduced cost.
Ferguson participates in Relay for Life, the American Cancer Society’s
signature fundraising activity that involves marathon-walking
sessions which raise money to help eradicate cancer. Ferguson’s
associates throughout the USA hold many additional fundraising
events. This year, the team from Ferguson’s headquarters raised
$19,000 and five teams of 15 people represented the company 
at the Relay itself. Work is already underway for the 2004 Relay.
Wolseley Centers operates a local community donation scheme 
in the UK. Plumb Center, Timber Center, Builder Center and Hire
Center donate money to a wide range of good causes for sports,
education and health schemes in local communities. Some 58 such
donations were made in the year to 31 July 2003, supporting
diverse organisations including the National Deaf Children’s Society. 
As part of National Construction Week, when the UK’s construction
industry visits schools throughout the country to talk to children
about the industry and career opportunities, Wolseley Centers
donated £10,000 to the Construction Industry Trust for Youth
(“CITY”). CITY seeks to give young people from disadvantaged
communities a second chance to gain an education and to 
qualify for a place on industry training schemes.
PBM, our new French business, works with a company dedicated
to the employment of disabled people throughout Western France.
They are mainly involved in the assembly of products sold by PBM
under its garden products Cerland brand.
Wolseley Canada is working with Project 118 Youth Ranch, 
a Canadian based not-for-profit organisation that seeks to rebuild 
the spiritual, physical, social and psychological lives of young
women who may be at risk. Wolseley Canada has contributed time,
money and materials and has helped raise funds for the building
and running costs of a Youth Ranch located just outside of Calgary.
The Youth Ranch is intended to be a long-term residential retreat
that will enable young women and their families to rebuild their lives
in a rural setting. Wolseley Canada has raised over C$100,000 for
the Youth Ranch and has organised fundraising events amongst
customers and its suppliers. This is but one example of the company’s
commitment to giving back to the communities it serves where
currently over 60 community projects are supported across Canada.
Donations
In addition to these initiatives, the Group supports charities relevant
to the countries and to the locations in which businesses operate.
These are wide-ranging and cover health, welfare, education, civic
and community projects as well as culture and the arts. Each year,
several hundred donations are made. In the USA, many of our
employees make regular contributions to the United Way, an
organisation which distributes funds to charities. In the UK, 
a Give as You Earn Scheme has been introduced with the
assistance of the Charities Aid Foundation which distributes 
funds to UK charities. Further details of the donations made 
during the year are set out on page 42. 36 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Report of the directors
Including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 July 2003
The directors submit their annual report and the audited consolidated
accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 
31 July 2003.
Principal activities and business review
Wolseley plc is a holding company; its subsidiaries are organised
into three divisions which are set out on pages 25 to 27. The principal
activities of the Group are the distribution of plumbing and bathroom
materials, central heating equipment and pipes, valves and fittings
within Europe, the USA and Canada. Additionally in the UK it operates
tool hire centres and, following completion of the acquisition of
Pinault Bois et Matériaux on 7 July 2003, it distributes heavyside
building materials both in the UK and France, whilst in the USA 
the Group distributes timber and other building materials. 
Details of the development of the Group’s businesses during the
year are given in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 
22 to 29 and in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 8 to 20. 
Results and dividends
The Group’s consolidated profit and loss account set out on 
page 50 shows an increase of 1.3% in Group operating profit 
from £437.2 million to £443.0 million. An analysis of turnover 
and operating profit is given in note 1 to the accounts on page 55.
There are no significant post balance sheet events.
Shareholders were paid the 2003 interim dividend of 5.6 pence per
share (2002: 5.0 pence) on 31 July 2003. The directors recommend
a final dividend of 15.6 pence per share (2002: 13.9 pence) making
a total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence per ordinary share, an
increase of 12.2% on the 18.9 pence paid in respect of last year.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the
Annual General Meeting, will be made on 1 December 2003 to
shareholders registered at the close of business on 3 October 2003.
It is the board’s intention that future dividend payments will be made
earlier than in previous years, with the interim dividend to be paid
around the end of May and the final dividend paid around the end 
of November.
The directors of Wolseley QUEST Limited have waived their right to
receive dividends in respect of the 2002-03 financial year and future
years on the shares held by that company under the Wolseley
Savings Related Share Option Scheme. For the year ended 
31 July 2003, this amounted to £20 (2002: £8,157).
The Company’s dividend reinvestment plan will continue to be
available to shareholders. Shareholders who do not currently
participate in the plan and wish to do so can obtain an application
form and explanatory booklet from the Company’s registrars, 
Lloyds TSB Registrars. Contact details for the registrars are shown
on page 83. The latest date for receipt of new applications to
participate in respect of the 2003 final dividend is 10 November 2003.
Acquisitions and disposals 
Details of acquisitions and disposals made during the year are
contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 24 
and 25 and in note 23 on pages 64 and 65.
Future development
It remains your board’s intention to develop the Group through
organic growth and by selective acquisitions.
Share capital
At the date of this report, 580,757,223 ordinary shares of 25 pence 
each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the
London Stock Exchange. In addition, the Company has entered into
a level II American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of
New York, under which the Company’s shares are traded in the form
of American Depository Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
During the year ended 31 July 2003, options were exercised
pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes resulting in the
allotment of 2,720,616 new ordinary shares. 86,700 new ordinary
shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of
the financial year to the date of this report. Details of these issues
including, where appropriate, the amounts subscribed for new
shares are set out in note 20 to the accounts on page 62 which
also contains details of options granted over unissued capital.
The limited power granted to the directors at last year’s Annual
General Meeting to allot equity shares for cash other than pro rata 
to existing shareholders expires no later than 13 March 2004. Your
directors recommend (Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting which
accompanies this report) that this authority should be renewed so
as to give them the ability (until the Annual General Meeting to be
held in 2004) to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata
to existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to 
a limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this
report. Your directors have no present intention to issue ordinary
shares (other than pursuant to the Company’s employees’ share
schemes). The directors recommend that you vote in favour of
Resolution 10 to maintain the Company’s flexibility in relation to
future share issues, including any issues to finance business
opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise. 37 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
A special resolution will also be proposed (Resolution 11 in the
Notice of Meeting) to renew the directors’ limited authority last
granted in 2002 to repurchase ordinary shares in the market. 
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 58,075,722 ordinary
shares (10% of the Company’s issued share capital at the date of
this report) and it also sets the minimum and maximum prices which
may be paid. The authority will enable your directors to continue to
respond promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider
such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share
and would be in the best interests of the Company. The Companies
(Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 will
come into force on 1 December 2003. These new regulations will
allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury
shares. Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used 
for the purpose of employee share schemes. The authorities to 
be sought by both Resolutions 10 and 11 are intended to apply 
equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares 
and to the sale of treasury shares.
The directors consider it desirable for these two general
authorisations to be available to provide flexibility in the
management of the Company’s capital resources. 
Substantial share interests
The following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share
capital appeared in the register maintained under the provisions of
section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
Name %
Fidelity, FMR Corp, Fidelity International Limited, 
Fidelity Pensions Management Limited 4.02%
Morley Fund Management Limited 4.01%
Aviva plc 4.00%
Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 3.19%
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00%
Directors
Brief particulars of the present directors are listed on pages 30 and
31 and further details of the board composition are contained in the
corporate governance report. The directors standing for re-election
at the Annual General Meeting are John Whybrow, Stephen Webster
and Fenton Hord. Each director, being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment. In addition, Gareth Davis who joined the board 
as a Non Executive Director on 1 July 2003 and Gérard Legtmann
who was appointed as Chief Executive Europe on 15 August 2003, 
will both stand for election. 
Directors’ interest in shares 
The register kept by the Company pursuant to section 325 of the
Companies Act 1985 shows that the directors in office at 31 July 2003
and their families had the under-mentioned interests in the ordinary
shares of the Company.
1 August 2002 
31 July 2003 (or on appointment)
J M Allan 5,000 5,000
C A Banks 108,544 89,344
G Davis – –
J R Descours 16,600 16,600
F N Hord 52,200 82,200
C S Hornsby 16,400 6,800
A J Hutton 54,682 50,656
J I K Murray 5,000 2,500
R M Walker 2,044 1,971
S P Webster 22,070 16,891
J W Whybrow 45,284 35,000 38 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance
Including the report of the audit committee
The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the board
as a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team
and assists in the development of skills, knowledge and expertise.
During the year, the board reviewed its effectiveness and made
changes to the content, delivery and presentation of papers that 
are prepared for each meeting. Meetings between the Non Executive
Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chairman and
Mr Banks, are now scheduled in the board’s annual timetable and
the board has also agreed that two board meetings should be 
held each year at divisional locations to help board members gain 
a deeper understanding of the business.
Performance evaluations have been carried out for each member 
of the board. Executive Directors’ performance has been assessed
by the Chairman and Mr Banks, Mr Banks’ performance by the
Chairman and the Non Executive Directors, the Chairman’s
performance by the Non Executive Directors and Mr Banks and 
the Non Executive Directors’ performance by Mr Banks and the
Chairman. The Chief Executive’s Review on page 19 outlines the
importance with which the Company views executive programmes,
to develop senior roles within the organisation. In line with the 
Higgs report and the Revised Code, the Executive Directors are
encouraged to take on not more than one non executive position 
on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain payments
received in respect of the appointment. In order to avoid any conflict
of interest all appointments are subject to the board’s approval.
Succession is considered to be a matter for the whole board rather
than for a committee. 
The Company’s articles of association provide that one third of 
the directors retire by rotation each year and that each director 
will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
Additionally, new directors are subject to election by shareholders 
at the first opportunity after their appointment. It is board policy that
Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the board for
more than nine years. In cases where it is proposed to exceed this
period the director concerned will retire annually and offer himself 
for re-election. Following their appointment, formal comprehensive
and tailored induction is offered to all Non Executive Directors.
Although the Non Executive Directors are not asked, at present, 
to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at
presentations of the annual results is encouraged. The Chairman
ensures that the board maintains an appropriate dialogue with
shareholders.
Following the appointment of Gareth Davis on 1 July 2003, the
board has four independent Non Executive Directors, excluding the
Chairman, within the definition set out in the Revised Code. Whilst
the board recognises that currently less than half the members of
the board are comprised of such directors, it is seeking to recruit
more Non Executive Directors over time. The board acknowledges
the recommendations made by the Higgs report on the importance
of drawing potential board candidates from a wider pool.
The board has also reconfirmed its view that it should not at this
stage designate a senior Non Executive Director for the reason 
given on page 41.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the Group. The board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes
how the board applies the principles of good governance set out 
in the Combined Code (as appended to the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority). As noted in the Chairman’s statement
on pages 6 and 7, the board has considered the recommendations
published at the beginning of 2003 by Derek Higgs and Sir Robert
Smith. The board supported the majority of the recommendations
which were made and has been pleased to see the changes made
on 23 July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council, which have
been incorporated into the revised Combined Code (“Revised Code”).
The board
As at 31 July 2003 the board of directors was made up of eleven
members comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors and four
Non Executive Directors. The Non Executive Directors are considered
by the board to be independent of management and free of any
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement. The board considers that each 
of the Non Executive Directors brings his own senior level of
experience, gained in their own fields of mainly international operations.
John Whybrow succeeded Richard Ireland as Chairman, following
his retirement at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in
2002. Gareth Davis was appointed as Non Executive Director with
effect from 1 July 2003. Andrew Hutton retired from the board on 
31 July 2003 and Gérard Legtmann was appointed to the board as
Chief Executive Europe with effect from 15 August 2003. At the date
of this report there remain eleven members of the board, comprising
the Chairman, six executive directors and four Non Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 30 and 31.
The Company’s policy relating to the terms of appointment and the
remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive Directors
is detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49.
The board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc
basis, as required by time critical business needs. The board has 
a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, although
its primary role is to review the overall strategic development of the
Group as a whole. Day-to-day operational decisions are delegated 
to the executive committee referred to on page 40. The board met
eight times during the year and, save for two occasions on which a 
Non Executive Director could not attend a meeting and one occasion
on which illness prevented attendance by an Executive Director, 
all of the directors were in attendance for each regular meeting. 
The board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense in the furtherance of their duties and has secured
appropriate insurance cover for the directors. This is in addition 
to the access that every director has to the Company Secretary,
who is charged with ensuring that board procedures are followed
and that good corporate governance and compliance is
implemented within the Group. The differing roles of Chairman 
and Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in writing. 
The Chairman has confirmed that he would not chair any other
major company’s board. 39 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
The role of the audit committee is to recommend the 
appointment and reappointment of the Company’s external 
auditors (for example, the recommendation to the board 
to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in succession to
PricewaterhouseCoopers referred to in Resolution 9 of the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report). 
The committee reviews the scope, results (including schedules 
of unadjusted errors and representation letters) and cost effectiveness 
of the audit as well as the auditors’ remuneration and performance.
The committee also ensures that key partners within the external
auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with both UK
and US rules. It also monitors the extent of non-audit work which
the external auditors can perform, to ensure that the provision of
those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external
auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not impair their
objectivity or independence. The external auditors provide audit
related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well
as formalities relating to shareholder or other circulars. The external
auditors report to the committee any material departures from Group
accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the
course of their audit work. Within the constraints of applicable 
US and UK rules, the external auditors undertake due diligence
reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given their in-depth
knowledge of the Group’s business. The provision of non-audit
services within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed
on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The committee also reviews the Group’s internal audit function and
its relationship with the external auditors, including internal audit
plans and performance. The committee has also approved a policy
on the recruitment of staff from both the external auditors and from
KPMG LLP to whom some elements of the internal audit function
have been outsourced. The committee monitors the application 
of the policies related to the provision of non-audit services and 
the recruitment of staff and will keep them under review.
The audit committee reviews the Company’s published financial
results, the annual report and the Form 20-F, which is filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in the USA. The committee
also reviews, where practicable, all proposed announcements to 
be made by the Company to the extent that they contain material
financial information. It also reviews disclosures made by the 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certification
process for the Form 20-F concerning the design and operation of
internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including
any fraud involving management or other employees involved in 
the Group’s financial controls. The committee monitors and reviews
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems, accounting
policies and practices, risk management procedures and compliance
controls as well as the Company’s statements on internal controls
before they are agreed by the board for each year’s annual report.
The board retains overall responsibility for internal control and the
identification and management of business risk.
The board has established a number of committees, each of which
has formal terms of reference (copies of those for the main committees
are available from the Company Secretary and can be found on the
Company’s website at www.wolseley.com) approved by the board and
complying with the Combined Code to assist in the discharge of its
duties. Members of the various committees are shown on page 31.
Mr Whybrow is the only director who sits on all main committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all board committees.
Nominations committee
The nominations committee meets on an as needed basis and is
comprised of Mr Whybrow (Chairman), Mr Banks and Mr Walker. 
Mr Whybrow would not chair the committee when it considers 
the appointment of a successor chairman. The board will address
the composition of the nominations committee (as well as the
remuneration and audit committees) in light of the Revised Code 
as further Non Executive Directors are recruited. The committee
reviews the structure, size and composition of the board and makes
recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered
necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new directors
and the continuation of existing directors in office. The committee
retains external search consultants as appropriate. The committee
also advises the board on succession planning for executive board
appointments although the board itself is responsible for succession
generally. The committee met three times during the year. All members
of the committee attended each meeting.
Audit committee
The audit committee comprises Messrs Allan, Davis (from 1 July 2003),
Whybrow and Murray (who chairs the committee). Mr Ireland
ceased to be a member of the committee when he retired on 
13 December 2002. The Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to the committee. The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and
Group Financial Controller usually attend meetings of the committee
together with the Head of Internal Audit and external auditors.
Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience from
senior executive levels. The board considers that, with the exception
of Mr Whybrow, each member of the committee is independent
within the definition set out in the Revised Code. Mr Murray, 
the Chairman of the committee, is considered to have significant, 
recent and relevant financial experience, having been Finance
Director at Land Securities PLC. Members of the committee 
are appointed by the board following recommendation by the
nominations committee. All members of the committee receive
appropriate induction and ongoing training. The remuneration of 
the members of the committee is set out on page 45 and the policy
with regard to the remuneration of Non Executive Directors is set out
on page 49. 40 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance continued
The committee met four times during the year and, save for one
meeting, all of the members of the committee were present at each
meeting. The committee consults both the internal and external
auditors in the absence of executives at the end of such meetings.
The Chairman of the committee attends the Annual General Meeting
to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on 
the committee’s activities. Subsequent to the financial year end, 
the committee agreed an addition to the Group-wide Code of Ethics
to create a confidential and anonymous process for dealing with
submissions by employees and others of any concerns or complaints
received by the Company regarding, inter alia, accounting, internal
accounting or auditing matters. A copy of the Code of Ethics is
available on the Company’s website at www.wolseley.com.
Remuneration committee
The committee comprises Messrs Walker, Whybrow and Allan. 
Mr Walker and Mr Allan are independent within the definition set 
out in the Revised Code. The Chairman of the committee is Mr Walker,
who succeeded Mr Whybrow in this role on 13 December 2002.
The committee met five times during the year and, save for one
meeting, all of the members of the committee were present at each
meeting. The committee is responsible for making recommendations
on remuneration to the board. The board’s Remuneration Report is
set out on pages 44 to 49.
Executive committee
The Executive Directors of the Company meet at least nine times
each year, often on the day before formal board meetings. The
committee addresses operational business issues and shares best
practice, thereby allowing the directors more time at board meetings
to focus on strategy. Adrian Barden was appointed as a member 
of this committee following Mr Hutton’s retirement on 31 July 2003.
Mr Barden has been responsible for Wolseley Centers in the UK
since 1 August 2003.
Treasury committee
Since 1 July 2003, the committee has comprised the Chief Executive,
the Group Treasurer and the Group Finance Director, who acts as 
its Chairman. Its role is to consider treasury policy, tax matters and
certain transactions on behalf of the Group within a framework
delegated by the board. 
Internal audit
The board confirms that a discrete internal audit function was
established within the Group before the end of the financial year. 
The Head of Internal Audit is based at the Company’s head office in
Theale. Certain internal audit functions have initially been outsourced
to KPMG LLP . The internal audit function will carry out assessments
of the quality of risk management and internal control and will
promote effective risk management within the businesses. 
The audit committee will review internal audit reports.
Internal control
In a highly decentralised Group, where local management has
considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, 
a well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard
shareholders’ investment and the Company’s assets. The directors
acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Group’s
systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. 
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report
“Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”,
an ongoing process had been established for identifying, managing
and evaluating the risks faced by the Group. This process has been
in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the
financial statements were approved. The systems are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the
Group’s objectives, safeguard the Group’s assets against material
loss, fairly report the Group’s performance and position and to
ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best
practice including that related to social, environmental and ethical
matters. The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss. Such systems are regularly
reviewed by the board to deal with changing circumstances. 
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Group’s business
is given on pages 28 and 29. Risk assessment and evaluation is an
integral part of the annual planning cycle. Each business documents
the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Group’s systems
of internal control. As part of this review, each business area and
function has been required to identify and document each significant
risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage,
monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these
controls. Senior managers are also required to sign bi-annual
confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any
breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures. Summarised
results have been presented to senior management and to the audit
committee. The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control for the year under review. A summary of
the principal control structures and processes in place across the
Group is set out below.
Control structures
Whilst the board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness it has delegated
responsibility for the internal control and risk management programme
to the Group Finance Director. The detailed review of internal control
and risk management has been delegated to the audit committee.
The management of each Group company is responsible for internal
control and risk management within its own business, and for ensuring
compliance with the Group’s policies and procedures. Each Group
company has appointed a risk director whose primary role in such
capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the
Group’s risk management and internal control programme. 
Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall
approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management
activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements. 41 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Control processes
The board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual
basis, and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light
of these. Control is exercised at both Group and subsidiary board
level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to
budgets, forecasts and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group
companies by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Twice a year Group companies approve and submit risk reports 
to the audit committee, summarising the key risks facing their
businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks. 
These reports, together with reports on internal control and
departures, if any, from established Group procedures prepared 
by the external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director
and the audit committee.
Group companies submit annual risk and internal control
representation letters to the Group Finance Director on internal
control and risk management issues, with comments on the control
environment within their operations. The Group Finance Director
summarises these submissions for the audit committee and the
Chairman of the audit committee reports to the board on any risk
management and internal control matters following each audit
committee meeting.
The board has formal procedures in place (which were reviewed
during the year) for the approval of investment and acquisition
projects, with designated levels of authority, supported by post-
investment review processes for selected acquisitions and major
capital expenditure. The board considers social, environmental and
ethical matters in relation to the Group’s businesses and assesses
these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group. The board is
conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short- and
long-term value of the Company.
The external auditors of the Company and the Head of Internal
Audit attend audit committee meetings and receive its papers. 
The report of the audit committee is set out on page 39 and the 
audit committee members regularly meet the external auditors
without the presence of executive management. 
As noted on page 36, the Company has entered into a level II
American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York
and has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (“the Commission”). The Company is required to 
comply with applicable US regulations including the recently enacted
Sarbanes-Oxley Act insofar as it applies to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with the Commission’s recommendations, 
the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising
the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial
Controller and the Company Secretary. The Chief Executive and
Group Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the
Group’s disclosure controls and procedures within 90 days of 
the date of this report and have concluded that, at that date, 
the disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring
that material information relating to the Group was made known 
to them during the period in which this report was being prepared. 
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will also provide 
the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when the 
Form 20-F is filed.
There were no significant changes in the Group’s internal controls 
or in other factors that could significantly affect those controls
subsequent to the date that the evaluation was completed, nor
were there any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses 
in the Group’s internal controls which required corrective action.
Compliance statement
The Company applied the principles set out in section 1 of the
Combined Code for the period under review and has, throughout
the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein with
the following two exceptions: 
> The board has reconsidered the nomination of a senior independent
Non Executive Director but continues to believe that, given the
size and composition of the board and the recent changes 
to the board, such a nomination is not currently appropriate. 
> Following the introduction of a new directors’ bonus scheme 
with effect from 1 August 2000, the pensionable salary of one
Executive Director includes his bonus capped at a fixed amount. 
The Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , are required
to review whether the above statement reflects the Company’s
compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code
specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does
not reflect such compliance. No such report has been made.
New York Stock Exchange 
Corporate governance requirements
On 1 August 2002 the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
approved a set of measures to strengthen corporate accountability.
Whilst the Company is not required to comply with these measures,
as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply in all material respects
with those standards.
Communications with shareholders
The Company places considerable importance on communication
with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders. 
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved
in investor relations and a senior executive has day to day responsibility
for such matters. The views of our major shareholders are reported
to the board by the Group Finance Director and discussed at its
meetings. The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all
shareholders either in paper form or electronically, and can be
accessed via the Company’s website or via Shareview, an Internet
service offered by the Company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars,
detailed on page 84. 42 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Corporate governance continued
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has
been extended to private shareholders through the Annual General
Meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives. The Group’s
preliminary and interim results, as well as all announcements issued
to the London and New York Stock Exchanges, are published on
the Company’s website, www.wolseley.com. The Company issues
regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies
of presentations to analysts and interviews with the Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director, are also posted on the website. Notice
of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at
least 20 working days before such meeting. It is Company policy
not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings. 
All shareholders are invited to the Company’s Annual General Meeting
at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the board
and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the audit,
nominations and remuneration committees available to answer
questions. Details of proxy voting are made available at the meeting
and are published on the Company’s website shortly after the meeting.
Donations
The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out 
on pages 33 to 35. The Group’s charitable donations in 2003 totalled
£838,000 (2002: £648,899). The Group made no political donations.
The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 defines
EU political organisations widely, and whose activities may form part
of normal relationships between companies and the political machinery,
even though such activities are not designed to affect public
support for a particular party or influence support for any party. 
The Group made no political donations in 2003 and does not make
what are commonly regarded as political donations. The Group will
continue this policy. The Group may, however, need as part of its
business to contact politicians and political parties within the EU on
a non-partisan basis in order to make them aware of industry views,
technology and trends. In the UK, employees may serve as local
councillors who are permitted time off by their employer. The definitions
of political donations and EU political expenditure have been drafted
so broadly that some such activities may fall within the Act, even
though they are not “donations” in the ordinary sense of the word.
The Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before
such expenditure or donations in excess of certain limits may be
made. The directors, therefore, propose on a precautionary basis, 
to once more seek authority for the Group to make donations and
incur expenditure, which they might otherwise be prohibited from
making or incurring under the terms of the Act. Among other things,
the Act requires that this authorising resolution should not purport 
to authorise particular donations or expenditure and requires any
donations to EU political organisations or any EU political expenditure
in excess of £200 to be disclosed in the annual report. The directors
consider that the authority sought under the resolution to allow the
Company or its subsidiaries to incur this type of expenditure of not
more than £125,000 in total until the Company’s next Annual General
Meeting is necessary to ensure that, because of the uncertainty over
which bodies are covered, the Company does not unintentionally
breach the Act. The policy of not giving any cash contribution to any
political party will continue. The authority sought by Resolution 13
will last until the Company’s next Annual General Meeting.
Awards under employee share schemes
Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan 
in March 2003 to 2,596 US-based employees and 616 Canadian-
based employees in respect of a maximum 2,260,153 ordinary
shares exercisable at 437.75 pence per share. Options were granted
under the UK Employees Savings Related Share Option Scheme in
June 2003 to 2,256 employees in respect of a maximum 1,249,020
ordinary shares exercisable at 412 pence per share. Options 
were granted under the Irish Sharesave Scheme in June 2003 to 
88 employees in respect of a maximum 76,677 ordinary shares
exercisable at 412 pence per share. In November 2002 options
were granted under the 1984 and 1989 Executive Senior Executive
Share Option Schemes over respectively 173,016 and 2,786,484
ordinary shares to senior employees of the Group at an option price
of 543 pence per share. These schemes are described on pages 
47 and 48. Details of the total options outstanding at 31 July 2003
are set out in note 20 to the financial statements. Details of the
awards under the Long Term Performance Related Incentive Scheme
for Mr Banks and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive
Scheme are set out on page 45.
Employee policies and involvement
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its
employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins,
Directions and other in-house publications, meetings and the Company’s
internal website, on matters affecting them as employees and on
the issues affecting their performance. A European Works Council
has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for consultation
with employees on significant developments in the Group’s operations,
management’s plans and expectations, organisational changes
within the Group and for employee representatives to consult
management about concerns over any aspect of the Group’s
operations. At the date of this report, there are 17 members
comprising 11 employee representatives elected from among
employees from each European company.
Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Company’s
pension arrangements including the defined benefit pension
scheme, which has one corporate and two individual trustees. 
The Chairman of the trustees is David Tucker and, save for an
independent trustee, all of the other trustees are UK-based employees
or former employees of the Group. Permanent employees outside
the UK are usually offered membership of their employing companies’
pension arrangements. Employees are offered a range of benefits
depending on the local environment, such as private medical cover. 
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the
Company, where possible, through participation in the Company’s
share schemes. Priority is given to the training of employees, and the
development of their skills is of prime importance. Employment of
disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability
of any applicant to carry out the function required. Arrangements 
to enable disabled people to carry out the function required will be
made if it is reasonable to do so. An employee becoming disabled
would, where appropriate, be offered retraining. The Group continues 43 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
to operate on a highly decentralised basis. This provides the
maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial
flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a 
small head office team. Local managements are responsible for
maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring
that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Creditor payment policy
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and
conditions of trading with their suppliers. It is the Group’s policy 
that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and,
where applicable, consistent with the UK CBI Prompt Payers Code.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Company Secretary
at the Company’s registered office. 
At 31 July 2003 the Company had no trade creditors (2002: nil). 
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2003 
was equivalent to 57 days (2002: 46 days) of trade purchases.
Shareholder services
Shareview is a service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB
Registrars, which allows shareholders on-line access to a range 
of shareholder information. Shareview provides access to details 
of shareholdings in the Company and practical help on transferring
shares or updating personal details. It also allows shareholders 
to choose to receive shareholder communications electronically, 
rather than by post. To register, shareholders simply need to log on
to www.shareview.co.uk. Shareholders will need their shareholder
reference number, which is shown on the form of proxy, which has
been sent to all shareholders. First time users will need to enter
certain information and choose a PIN number before they are able
to access their shareholding details. Shareview dealing is also now
available to UK-based shareholders. This is a simple and convenient
telephone and Internet share sale service offered by the registrars.
For telephone sales call: 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am 
and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales, log on 
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Existing and potential UK
shareholders may also acquire shares in the Company through UK
Individual Savings Accounts, which are managed by ISA managers.
CREST
The Company’s ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system
for stocks and shares.
Auditors
Following the transfer of substantially all of the business of the 
UK firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers to a limited liability partnership 
on 1 January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned as auditors 
to the Company on 31 March 2003 and the directors appointed 
the new auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP with effect from 
1 April 2003. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are willing to continue 
as auditors of the Company and Resolution 9 concerning their
appointment and the determination of their remuneration is to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual general meeting resolutions
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 21 November 2003, together with explanatory 
notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting, 
which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
On behalf of the board
Mark J White
Company Secretary
Wolseley plc, Registered No. 29846
Theale, Reading
22 September 2003 44 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Remuneration report
Including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 July 2003
The board presents the Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 July 2003.
The board sets the Company’s remuneration policy. The remuneration
committee (“the Committee”) makes recommendations to the
board, within its agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s
framework of executive remuneration and its cost. It also
determines, on behalf of the board, specific remuneration packages
for each of the Executive Directors and for the Chairman and
administers the Company’s share incentive schemes for employees.
The board itself determines the remuneration of the Non Executive
Directors. The members of the Committee, the majority of whom 
are independent Non Executive Directors within the definition set 
out in the Revised Code, are set out on page 31 and the Company
Secretary acts as its secretary. The Committee has access to
detailed external research on market data and trends from independent
and experienced international consultants. Since March 2003, 
the Committee has sought advice from Deloitte & Touche and 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (who also, respectively, 
provide certain tax and pensions advice to the Company). 
The Chief Executive and Peter Buckingham, the Director of 
Human Resources, are normally invited to attend the meetings 
of the Committee to respond to specific questions raised by
members of the Committee. This specifically excludes such 
matters concerning the details of their own personal remuneration.
The Company has followed the provisions of Schedules A and B 
of the Combined Code both in framing its remuneration policy 
and in preparing this report and has taken into consideration the
recommendations published by Derek Higgs at the beginning of
2003 and the Revised Code published on 23 July 2003. The
Company has considered the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 and has complied with the relevant provisions 
of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by such Regulations.
The Company’s policy on remuneration was approved by shareholders
at the Annual General Meeting in 2002. Shareholders will be invited 
to approve this report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
21 November 2003.
With the exception of the service agreement details, performance
graph and external directorships, the information set out in this report
on pages 45 to 48 represents the auditable disclosures referred to
in the Auditors’ Report on page 76 as specified by the UK Listing
Authority and under Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Policy on remuneration of executive directors
The Company’s policy now, and for the future, is to provide
remuneration packages that fairly reward executives for the
contribution they make to the business, having regard to the size
and complexity of the Group’s operations and the need to attract,
retain and motivate executives of the highest quality. Remuneration
packages comprise salary, performance bonuses, share options,
long-term incentives, benefits-in-kind and pensions. The Company
takes a total approach to remuneration, which includes all these
elements. The packages are designed to be broadly comparable
with those offered by other similar international businesses and
reflect competitive practices in the countries and markets in which
the Executive Directors operate. The policy is designed to incentivise
the directors to meet the Company’s financial and strategic objectives
such that a significant proportion of remuneration will be performance-
related. The Committee considers that the targets set for the
different elements of performance related remuneration are
appropriate and demanding in the context of the Company’s 
trading environment and the business challenges it faces.
Salaries
Basic salaries are determined having regard to competitive market
data, the degree of individual responsibility, individual performance
and after giving consideration to the wider economic and employment
backdrop, including general pay and employment conditions
elsewhere in the Group. The target salary is at the median with the
opportunity to go above this level subject to sustained individual
performance. The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive
Directors with effect from 1 August 2002 having sought the views 
of both the Chairman and Mr Banks.
Benefits-in-kind
These principally comprise car benefits, life assurance, healthcare
insurance and, in the case of Mr Banks and Mr Webster, relocation
and housing allowances following, respectively, their relocations 
from the USA to the UK and from Droitwich to Theale, where the
Company’s head office is now located.
Performance bonuses
Performance bonus arrangements are designed to encourage
individual performance, corporate operating efficiencies and
profitable growth. A new annual bonus scheme was introduced with
effect from 1 August 2000. The scheme, and the level of payment,
is intended to provide a more direct link to annual performance and
depends on performance against annual targets of return on capital,
working capital/sales, Group profit before tax and, where relevant,
profit before tax for the appropriate division. No payment will be
made where actual performance falls short of 80% of the targets 
for the US directors and 90% for the other directors. Payments are
capped if targets are surpassed by 10% or more. The following
percentages of base salary would be paid in bonus subject to the
achievement of the minimum percentages of target: Mr Banks 60%,
Messrs Descours, Hutton and Webster 30%, Mr Hord 78% and 
Mr Hornsby 80% rising, in each case upon the achievement of
110% of target, to 100%, 50%, 124% and 160% of base salary.
Bonus percentages increase on a linear basis for achievement 
of between 80-90% of target and 110% of target. 45 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Emoluments
The emoluments for 2002 and 2003 of the directors who served
during the year are set out below:
Salary Pension 2003 2002
Directors’ & feesBonusesBenefitssupplement Total Total
remuneration £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Chairman
R Ireland
1
63 – 2 – 65 158
J W Whybrow
2
118 – – – 118 29
Executive 
Directors
C A Banks
3
724 565 122 – 1,411 1,429
J R Descours 295 83 2 – 380 344
F N Hord 417 219 1 – 637 944
C S Hornsby 339 410 18 – 767 902
A J Hutton 324 128 24 – 476 425
S P Webster
4
335 131 79 37 582 439
Non-Executive 
Directors
J M Allan 30 – – – 30 29
G Davis
5
3––– 3 –
J I K Murray
6
32 ––– 32 10
R M Walker 32 – – – 32 29
Total 2,712 1,536 248 37 4,533 4,738
Pensions to 
former directors –––– 325 329
Pension 
contributions 
to money 
purchase plans –––– 236 267
Aggregate gains 
on exercise of 
share options –––– 98 186
Total –––– 659 782
Notes:
1. To 13 December 2002.
2. Appointed Chairman with effect from 13 December 2002. 
3. £70,000 (2002: £128,000) of the figure for benefits relates to relocation from the USA to the UK.
4. £51,666 (2002: £9,000) of the figure for benefits relates to relocation from Droitwich to Theale.
5. Appointed 1 July 2003.
6. Appointed 12 April 2002.
Service agreements
All current service agreements with Executive Directors are subject
to a maximum of 12 months’ notice of termination if given by the
Company and six months’ notice of termination if given by the
Executive Director. Each of Messrs Banks, Descours, Hord, Hornsby
and Webster have service contracts that provide for these notice
periods, dated 9 July 2003, 27 September 1999, 27 June 2003, 
18 July 2003 and 25 September 2002 respectively. Mr Hutton’s
service agreement, dated 25 September 2002, contained similar
provisions. There are no provisions in any service agreement for
early termination payments. In the event of early termination of 
any service agreement, the Committee will take a robust view of 
the mitigation, which should be taken into account when computing
any compensation payable.
Long-term cash incentive plan
The object of the long-term cash incentive plans, the first of which
was specifically introduced to facilitate Mr Banks’ recruitment as
Chief Executive in 2001, is to provide a cash bonus conditional
upon the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) over three
years. The second plan was approved by shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting held in 2002. Each long-term cash
incentive plan is a discretionary plan. The Committee’s policy 
is to make an annual award under the plans to Mr Banks and 
to the Executive Directors and other senior executives respectively.
No award may exceed 100% of salary and to date, no award 
has exceeded 50% of salary at the time the award was granted. 
All awards are made subject to the achievement of stretching
performance conditions. TSR has been selected as a performance
condition to more closely align the interests of the Executive
Directors and senior executives with those of shareholders over the
long term. It rewards the relative out performance of the Company
against a defined list of comparator companies. Calculations are
performed independently and are approved by the Committee.
The lists of comparator companies for the awards made in each 
of 2001 and 2002 under the plan for Mr Banks and the list for the
awards made to the other Executive Directors and senior employees
in 2002 are based upon the constituent members of the FTSE 100
as at the dates of grant, excluding bank, telecommunications, 
IT and utility companies but together with CRH, RMC and 
Travis Perkins which compete in the same sector.
The maximum awards under the plans will only be payable if 
the Company’s TSR over the relevant performance periods are 
in the top decile of the comparator group. No amount is payable 
if the Company’s comparative TSR performance is ranked at, 
or below, the median and the vesting percentage will be 
determined on a linear basis for intermediate rankings.
Details of the awards conditionally made to the Executive Directors
in office during the year under the long-term cash incentive plans
and outstanding at 31 July 2003, as well as at the date of this
report, are shown in the table below:
Interests in £ Interests in £ Interests in £
Name of held at awarded held at
director 1 Aug 2002 during the year 31 Jul 2003 Performance period
C A Banks 365,981 369,908 735,889 1 Aug 2001-31 Jul 2005
J R Descours – 139,423 139,423 1 Aug 2002-31 Jul 2005
F N Hord – 150,000 150,000 1 Aug 2002-31 Jul 2005
C S Hornsby – 174,194 174,194 1 Aug 2002-31 Jul 2005
A J Hutton – 162,000 162,000 1 Aug 2002-31 Jul 2005
S P Webster – 167,500 167,500 1 Aug 2002-31 Jul 2005 46 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Remuneration report continued
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR performance 
against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the five-year period
to 31 July 2003. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as being 
a broad equity market index consisting of companies of comparable
size and complexity to Wolseley.
Total return indices – Wolseley and FTSE 100
Pensions
UK Executive Directors participate in the Wolseley Group Retirement
Benefits Plan (“the Plan”). The Plan is a defined benefit scheme 
and provides benefit based on final pensionable salaries. 
Group companies make contributions to the Plan based on 
the recommendation of the Plan actuary. UK Executive Directors
contribute 5% per annum of pensionable salary to the Plan.
Bonuses payable to UK Executive Directors are not pensionable. 
The Finance Act 1989 introduced an earnings cap (“the Cap”) 
for employees joining the Plan after 31 May 1989. This has the
effect of limiting the amount of an employee’s salary that can be
pensioned through an approved pension scheme. The limit is
currently £99,000 per annum. Mr Webster is the only current UK
director in office on 31 July 2003 who is subject to the Cap. 
The Company has agreed to provide Mr Webster with benefits
which are broadly comparable with those that would have applied
under the Plan had the Cap not been introduced. Additionally, 
the Finance Act 1989 capped life assurance payable through an
approved pension scheme in respect of such executives. The
Company has taken out an insurance policy to cover that part of 
the life assurance for Mr Webster which is in excess of the Cap. 
The amount charged to the profit and loss account during the year
in respect of this future obligation was £33,061 (including £1,961 
in respect of life insurance) (2002: £55,004).
Mr Banks and Mr Hornsby participate in the defined contribution
pension arrangements of Ferguson Enterprises. Mr Hord
participates in the defined benefit and defined contribution 
plans of Stock Building Supply. Mr Descours participates 
in the defined benefits pension arrangements of Brossette.
Mr Hord is a member of a US non-qualified plan, which will provide
a benefit for 20 years after retirement at age 60 of 40% of final
pensionable salary. At Mr Hord’s option, and with Company consent,
the benefit can be paid over a period of 5, 10 or 15 years with the
total amount of the benefit, in cash terms, being the same.
Bonuses are generally non-pensionable. It has been agreed that, 
in line with current US practice, contributions to defined contribution
pension plans will be set at 15% of base salary and bonus for
Messrs Banks and Hornsby capped at bonus levels of $420,000
and $400,000 respectively. In the case of Mr Hord, in order to
preserve his pension entitlement at the date the new bonus scheme
was introduced, it has been agreed that his bonus up to a maximum
of US$742,400 would remain pensionable.
A US subsidiary undertaking has a commitment to a former director,
who is a United States citizen, to pay a joint survivor pension of
$300,000 per annum for fifteen years from 1 August 1993. The net
present value of the future obligation at 31 July 2003 was £778,000
(2002: £993,000) which has been charged in prior years’ accounts.
Additionally, Brossette, a French subsidiary undertaking, has a
commitment to a former director, who is a French citizen, to pay 
an annual pension of m206,165, with a widow’s entitlement of 
60%, subject to an annual increase based on the agreed French
pension index.
The full actuarial cost of this arrangement was provided in previous
years as part of Brossette’s ongoing pension obligations. The
Company is guarantor of this future pension commitment which 
at 31 July 2003 was approximately £2.4 million (2002: £2.1 million).
The following table shows the directors participating during the year
in the Group’s defined benefits plans and the amounts of benefit
accrued at the end of the year as if the director had left service 
on 31 July 2003, the change in accrued benefit over the year, 
the transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year as well
as the change in the transfer value over the year as required by the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The increase in
transfer value figures represents an obligation on the pension fund
or the Company – they are not sums due or paid to the director. 
The Listing Rules require additional disclosure of the change in
accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
These pension liabilities are calculated using the cash equivalent
transfer value method prescribed in the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority.
0
50
100
150
200
250
1999 1998
Wolseley return index FTSE 100 return index
2000 2001 2002 2003 47 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
The following table shows those directors participating in money
purchase pension plans and the cost of the Group’s contributions
thereto:
2003 2002
Pensions: Money Purchase Plans £000 £000
C A Banks 138 174
F N Hord 2 6
C S Hornsby 96 87
Share options
The Company operates executive share option schemes for Executive
Directors and other senior Group executives. Such options have not
been and will not be granted at a discount to the relevant middle
market price at the time of grant.
The Committee considers annually the levels of grants, which are
phased over time. The cumulative value of all grants made under
the schemes cannot exceed four times relevant remuneration. 
An option becomes exercisable on the third anniversary of the 
date of grant but, in respect of options granted after 31 May 1994, 
cannot be exercised unless a performance test has been satisfied.
Thereafter an option may be exercised at any time until it lapses, 
10 years from the date of grant. No amount is payable on award 
of an option.
Options granted between May 1994 and December 1996 may not
be exercised unless the growth in earnings per share over a period
of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK
retail price index over the same period by at least 6%.
Options granted in, and subsequent to, December 1997 may not be
exercised unless growth in earnings per share over a period of three
consecutive financial years exceeds growth in the UK retail price
index over the same period by at least 9%.
In addition, the number of options exercisable is determined by the
return on capital employed achieved over the same rolling three year
period. For options granted under this Scheme in 1997 and 1998,
achieving a return on capital employed of 15% per annum will enable
50% of options granted to become exercisable, rising on a sliding
scale to 100% for achieving a return on capital employed of 20% or
more. With effect from October 1999 the return on capital employed
required to permit exercise of 100% of options granted was reduced
from 20% to 17.5% and the sliding scale was adjusted accordingly.
It is believed that the combination of targets is appropriately
challenging for the options granted between 1997 and 2002.
No further awards may be made under the existing executive 
share option schemes from 2004. The board therefore proposes to
introduce a new executive scheme for Executive Directors and other
Group executives, further details of which are set out in the separate
Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules
Increase in Transfer value
transfer value Increase of the increase
2003 in pension 2003
Pension Increase in (excluding Pension 2003 (excluding
accumulated pension Transfer value member accumulated (net of member
Age at 2003 2003 2003 2002 contributions) 2003 revaluation) contributions)
31 July 2003 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
J R Descours
1
55 86 1 1,266 1,197 69 86 (0.4) (6)
130 6 918110 130 4 3
F N Hord 56 286 13 4,321 4,056 264 286 0.4 (102)
A J Hutton
2
56 155 17 2,893 1,833 1,045 155 15 810
S P Webster
3
50 15 2 161 122 24 15 2 3
36 8 351 249 103 36 7 72
1. Mr Descours is also entitled to a lump sum on retirement under the Brossette Retirement Indemnities Plan. The second row of figures in the above table relates to the lump sum benefits payable under this plan.
2. Mr Hutton retired on 31 July 2003. The above figures represent the value of actual retirement benefits taken by Mr Hutton. The pension accumulated of £155,000 is stated before the payment of a lump sum.
£198,655 of the £810,000 increase in transfer value relates to the value of the increase in accrued benefits for the year.
3. Mr Webster is also also entitled to benefits under a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme. The last row of figures in the above table relates to the benefits payable under such scheme. 48 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ share options 2002-03
The table below shows the number of share options held by
directors in office during the year under the senior executive 
share option schemes as at 31 July 2003. 
Executive share option schemes
Options Options at Options at
Subscription exercisable 31 July 1 August
Name of director price (p) between 2003 2002
C A Banks 350.25 26.10.96-25.10.03 – 19,200
388.75 17.11.97-16.11.04 16,800 16,800
440.00 21.11.98-20.11.05 14,500 14,500
483.50 11.12.00-10.12.07 35,000 35,000
381.00 12.11.01-11.11.08 25,000 25,000
397.00 20.10.02-19.10.09 22,000 22,000
349.75 20.10.03-19.10.10 50,000 50,000
468.00 03.05.04-02.05.11 400,000 400,000
467.00 12.11.04-11.11.11 150,000 150,000
543.00 04.11.05-03.11.12 225,000 –
J R Descours 350.25 27.10.96-26.10.03 7,200 7,200
388.75 18.11.97-17.11.04 8,000 8,000
433.00 23.11.98-22.11.05 8,300 8,300
456.50 02.12.99-01.12.06 10,000 10,000
483.50 12.12.00-11.12.07 10,000 10,000
381.00 13.11.01-12.11.08 25,000 25,000
397.00 21.10.02-20.10.09 22,000 22,000
349.75 23.10.03-22.10.10 50,000 50,000
467.00 13.11.04-12.11.11 50,000 50,000
543.00 04.11.05-03.11.12 50,000 –
F N Hord 388.75 17.11.97-16.11.04 13,000 13,000
440.00 21.11.98-20.11.05 13,000 13,000
456.50 29.11.99-28.11.06 10,000 10,000
483.50 11.12.00-10.12.07 10,000 10,000
381.00 12.11.01-11.11.08 10,000 10,000
397.00 20.10.02-19.10.09 12,000 12,000
349.75 20.10.03-19.10.10 50,000 50,000
467.00 12.11.04-11.11.11 75,000 75,000
543.00 04.11.05-03.11.12 60,000 –
C S Hornsby 220.75 16.11.95-15.11.02 – 8,000
350.25 26.10.96-25.10.03 – 7,600
388.75 17.11.97-16.11.04 8,000 8,000
440.00 21.11.98-20.11.05 8,000 8,000
456.50 29.11.99-28.11.06 8,000 8,000
483.50 11.12.00-10.12.07 8,000 8,000
381.00 12.11.01-11.11.08 8,000 8,000
397.00 20.10.02-19.10.09 10,000 10,000
349.75 20.10.03-19.10.10 15,000 15,000
485.00 20.06.04-19.06.11 100,000 100,000
467.00 12.11.04-11.11.11 75,000 75,000
543.00 04.11.05-03.11.12 80,000 –
A J Hutton 483.50 12.12.00-11.12.07 35,000 35,000
381.00 13.11.01-12.11.08 25,000 25,000
397.00 21.10.02-20.10.09 22,000 22,000
349.75 23.10.03-22.10.10 50,000 50,000
467.00 13.11.04-12.11.11 75,000 75,000
543.00 05.11.05-04.11.12 75,000 –
S P Webster 433.00 23.11.98-22.11.05 16,800 16,800
483.50 12.12.00-11.12.07 35,000 35,000
381.00 13.11.01-12.11.08 25,000 25,000
397.00 21.10.02-20.10.09 22,000 22,000
349.75 23.10.03-22.10.10 50,000 50,000
467.00 13.11.04-12.11.11 75,000 75,000
543.00 05.11.05-04.11.12 80,000 –
Notes:
(a) The following exercises of options took place during the year:
(i) by Charles Banks of executive share options on 30 June 2003 in respect of 19,200 ordinary
shares at an option price of 350.25 pence (closing middle market price 670.25 pence).
(ii) by Claude Hornsby of executive share options on 22 October 2002 in respect of 8,000 ordinary
shares at an option price of 220.75 pence (closing middle market price 526 pence) and 
17 December 2002 in respect of 6,000 ordinary shares at an option price of 508 pence 
(closing middle market price 517.5 pence);
(b) Following his retirement, the options awarded to Andrew Hutton will be exercisable between 
1 August 2003 and 31 January 2005.
(c) The highest mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year was 706.75 pence
and the lowest was 449.00 pence. The year-end price was 674.25 pence.
The UK- and US-based Executive Directors may also participate 
in the UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SRSOS”) 
and the Employee Share Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) respectively.
Under the SRSOS, participants who enter into a savings contract,
to a maximum level of £250 per month, are granted options to
subscribe for shares in the Company. Under the ESPP , a US Code
423 Plan, US participants may enter into a savings contract to 
a maximum level of $400 per month. The board may determine 
that the options granted under either scheme may be granted 
at a discount. The maximum discount is 20% for the SRSOS and
15% for the ESPP of the average market prices used to determine
the price of the award. The following table sets out the number of 
share options held under the SRSOS and ESPP by the directors.
Savings related share option schemes
Options Options at Options at
Subscription exercisable 31 July 1 August
Name of director price (p) on or between 2003 2002
C A Banks 562.00 01.06.05-30.11.05 1,690 1,690
597.00 15.04.03 – 564
437.75 17.04.04 700 –
F N Hord 597.00 15.04.03 – 564
437.75 17.04.03 700 –
C S Hornsby 597.00 15.04.03 – 564
437.75 17.04.03 700 –
A J Hutton* 336.00 01.08.03-31.01.04 2,008 2,008
368.00 01.04.03-30.09.03 – 2,119
409.00 01.08.03-31.01.04 2,860 2,860
562.00 01.08.03-31.01.04 1,014 1,014
S P Webster 345.00 01.04.03-30.09.03 – 2,000
368.00 01.04.03-30.09.03 – 3,179
412.00 01.06.06-30.11.06 917 –
562.00 01.06.05-30.11.05 1,014 1,014
*All outstanding options awarded to Mr Hutton, following his recent retirement, will expire on 
31 January 2004.
Mr Hutton and Mr Webster were the only directors who exercised
options under the Group’s savings related share option schemes
during the year, both on 1 April 2003. Mr Hutton exercised 2,119
options at an option price of 368 pence and Mr Webster exercised
2,000 options at an option price of 345 pence and 3,179 options 
at 368 pence. The closing middle market price on 1 April 2003 was
514.75 pence. The options awarded in 2002 under the ESPP to 
Mr Banks, Mr Hord and Mr Hornsby lapsed in April 2003.
External directorships
Executive Directors are now encouraged to take on not more than
one external non executive directorship on a non-competitor board. 
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject
to the board’s approval. Directors may retain payments received 
in respect of these appointments. Mr Banks is a Non Executive
Director of Bunzl plc and of Harbor Bank for which the annual 
rate of his fees is £34,000 and $3,000 respectively. Mr Hord is a 
Non Executive Director of Reeds Jewelers, Inc for which the annual
rate of his fees is $19,500. Mr Webster is a Non Executive Director of
Bradford and Bingley plc for which the annual rate of his fees is £42,500. 49 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Policy on remuneration of Non Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non Executive Directors during the year under
review was made up of a basic fee and an additional fee where 
a Non Executive Director acts as Chairman of either the audit or
remuneration committees. Fees are reviewed from time to time by
the board. The Non Executive Directors do not have service contracts
and do not participate in any incentive plan nor is any pension
payable in respect of their services as Non Executive Directors. 
The board’s policy is that Non Executive Directors are normally
appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed
and extended for a further three year period. Appointments may,
however, be terminated upon six months’ notice. There are no
provisions for compensation in the event of termination. The terms
and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors are
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during
normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
This Remuneration Report has been approved by the board of
directors of Wolseley plc.
On behalf of the board
Robert M Walker 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
22 September 2003
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial
statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit
or loss for that period. 
The directors consider that in preparing the accounts, appropriate
accounting policies have been used and applied consistently,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates,
and that applicable UK accounting standards have also been applied.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy 
the financial position of the Company and the Group which enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
UK Companies Act 1985. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the wolseley.com website. The work carried out by the auditors
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly,
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially
presented on the website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or 
other irregularities. The directors, having prepared the financial
statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps 
and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate
for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion. 50 Group profit and loss account Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Group profit and loss account
Year ended 31 July 2003
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Turnover 1
Continuing operations 8,022.9 7,967.6
Acquisitions 198.1 –
8,221.0 7,967.6
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 1 472.9 463.9
Goodwill amortisation 3 (29.9) (26.7)
Operating profit
Continuing operations 431.4 437.2
Acquisitions 11.6 –
1, 2 & 3 443.0 437.2
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 443.0 437.2
Net interest payable 4 (17.0) (26.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 426.0 410.7
Taxation 5
Current tax charge (118.0) (108.1)
Deferred tax charge (9.6) (14.4)
(127.6) (122.5)
Profit after tax 298.4 288.2
Profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders 298.4 288.2
Dividends 6 (123.1) (109.2)
Profit retained 21 175.3 179.0
Earnings per share 7
Before goodwill amortisation 56.69p 54.58p
Goodwill amortisation (5.16)p (4.62)p
Basic earnings per share 51.53p 49.96p
Diluted earnings per share 51.12p 49.46p 51 Balance sheets Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Balance sheets
As at 31 July 2003
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 9 686.8 502.7 – –
Tangible assets 10 716.6 582.0 – –
Investments 11 0.2 0.1 1,486.5 1,487.5
1,403.6 1,084.8 1,486.5 1,487.5
Current assets
Stocks 12 1,303.5 1,050.9 – –
Debtors and property awaiting disposal 13 1,780.3 1,372.7 2,588.6 2,305.7
Construction loans receivable (secured) 14 176.2 171.4 – –
Investments 15 6.9 9.3 – –
Cash at bank, in hand and on deposit 215.9 204.9 250.6 70.6
3,482.8 2,809.2 2,839.2 2,376.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short-term borrowings 16 207.0 252.2 305.6 289.1
Construction loans borrowings (unsecured) 14 176.1 171.4 – –
Other creditors 17 1,742.7 1,245.9 1,943.2 1,587.3
2,125.8 1,669.5 2,248.8 1,876.4
Net current assets 1,357.0 1,139.7 590.4 499.9
Total assets less current liabilities 2,760.6 2,224.5 2,076.9 1,987.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings 18 842.5 507.6 716.8 573.7
Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 143.9 117.0 – –
986.4 624.6 716.8 573.7
1,774.2 1,599.9 1,360.1 1,413.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 20 145.2 144.5 145.2 144.5
Share premium account 21 177.8 169.1 177.8 169.1
Profit and loss account 21 1,451.2 1,286.3 1,037.1 1,100.1
Shareholders’ funds 1,774.2 1,599.9 1,360.1 1,413.7
The accounts on pages 50 to 75 were approved by the board of directors on 22 September 2003 and were signed on its behalf by
CharlesA Banks Stephen P Webster
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 52 Group cash flow statement/
Group statement of total recognised gains and losses
Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Group cash flow statement
Year ended 31 July 2003
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 26 607.7 584.1
Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 27 (24.8) (22.5)
Tax paid (108.1) (119.6)
Capital expenditure 27 (108.2) (96.8)
Acquisitions 24 (507.2) (169.9)
Disposals 25 3.0 8.2
Equity dividends paid (113.0) (100.1)
Cash (outflow)/inflow before use of liquid resources and financing (250.6) 83.4
Management of liquid resources 27 31.8 1.4
Financing 27 314.8 (98.8)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in period 96.0 (14.0)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 28
Increase/(decrease) in cash in period 96.0 (14.0)
Cash flow from (increase)/decrease in debt and lease financing (305.4) 106.4
Cash flow from increase in liquid resources (31.8) (1.4)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (241.2) 91.0
New finance leases – (2.6)
Finance leases acquired with subsidiaries (20.6) –
Translation difference (19.3) 59.7
Movement in net debt in period (281.1) 148.1
Opening net debt (545.6) (693.7)
Closing net debt (826.7) (545.6)
Group statement of total recognised gains and losses
Year ended 31 July 2003
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 298.4 288.2
Currency translation differences (10.4) (84.3)
Total recognised gains and losses for the financial year 288.0 203.9 53 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Accounting policies
Year ended 31 July 2003
Basis of accounting
These consolidated financial statements are prepared under 
the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable 
UK accounting standards.
Basis of consolidation
The Group accounts include the results of the parent Company 
and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2003.
The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued
during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the
date of effective acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance,
unless provision therefore has been made in earlier years.
Foreign currencies
The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated
into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the
relevant financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 July.
Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling 
of the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at
the beginning and end of the year are dealt with through reserves 
as are exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised
to finance overseas assets.
Exchange differences on financial instruments entered into for foreign
currency net assets hedging purposes are dealt with through reserves.
The cost of the Company’s investments in overseas subsidiary
undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date
of investment.
All other foreign currency assets and liabilities of the Company and
its United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling
at the rate ruling at 31 July except in those instances where forward
cover has been arranged, in which case this forward rate is used.
Foreign currency transactions during the year are translated into
sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction
except when forward exchange contracts are in place, when the
forward contract rate is used. Any exchange differences are dealt
with through the profit and loss account.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises when the cost of acquiring subsidiary undertakings
and businesses exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets
acquired. Prior to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on consolidation
and purchased goodwill was written off to reserves. Following
publication of FRS 10, a revised policy for accounting for goodwill
was adopted with effect from 1 August 1998. Goodwill arising from
acquisitions completed on or after that date is capitalised and
amortised on a straight line basis over a period of not more than 
20 years. Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 August 1998
has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the
consolidated accounts at their fair value to the Group. Fair value
adjustments principally relate to adjustments necessary to bring 
the accounting policies of acquired businesses into line with those
of the Wolseley Group but may also include other adjustments
necessary to restate assets and liabilities at their fair values at the
date of acquisition. All businesses acquired are consolidated using
the acquisition method of accounting.
Turnover
Turnover is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and
services falling within the Group’s ordinary activities, excluding 
intra-Group sales, trade discounts, value added tax and similar 
sales taxes.
Leased assets
Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which 
give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as 
if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing
commitments is included in borrowings. The rentals payable are
apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit and
loss account, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
The cost of operating leases is charged on a straight line basis over
the period of the lease.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets (except freehold
land) mainly on a straight line basis to write off the cost of those assets
over their estimated useful lives. The principal rates of depreciation
are: freehold buildings and long leaseholds, 2-3%; short leaseholds,
over the period of the lease; plant and machinery, 10-15%; fixtures
and fittings, 15%; computers, 20-100% and motor vehicles, 25%. 54 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Accounting policies continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
Real property awaiting disposal
Real property awaiting disposal is transferred to current assets at the
lower of book written down value and estimated net realisable value.
Depreciation is not applied to real property awaiting disposal, but the
carrying value is reviewed annually and written down through the profit
and loss account to current estimated net realisable value if lower.
Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of Group cost and net realisable
value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow moving
items. Raw materials, bought out components and goods
purchased for resale are stated at cost on a first in, first out basis.
Taxation
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset
has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance
sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in
the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. An asset has not
been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits
in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised
have not been discounted.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the
distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary
undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Derivatives and financial instruments
Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and currency
swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the
business activities of the Group and the financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments. A discussion 
of how the financial risks are managed is included in the Operating
and Financial Review on pages 22 to 29. Financial instruments are
accounted for as follows:
>Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Group’s exposure to
movements in interest rates. The interest payable or receivable 
on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising 
on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are not revalued 
to fair value prior to maturity.
>Cross currency interest rate swaps (currency swaps) are used 
to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings. The future
currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate 
of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain 
or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset or liability 
in reserves. The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in 
the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Pensions and post retirement benefits
The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under defined
benefit plans and other post retirement benefits are charged to the
profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the employees’
services in accordance with the recommendations of independent
qualified actuaries. Variations from expected cost are normally spread
over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other 
post retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account
as incurred. 55 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts
Year ended 31 July 2003
1. Segmental analysis
New Increment
acquisitions on 2002 Organic Organic
2002 Exchange 2003 acquisitions change change 2003
Analysis of change in sales £m £m £m £m £m % £m
European Distribution 2,517.5 62.1 121.5 136.6 119.0 4.6 2,956.7
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution 3,592.4 (294.9) 21.5 198.9 33.6 1.0 3,551.5
US Building Materials Distribution 1,857.7 (161.0) 55.1 14.9 (53.9) (3.2) 1,712.8
7,967.6 (393.8) 198.1 350.4 98.7 1.3 8,221.0
New Increment
acquisitions on 2002 Organic Organic
Analysis of change in operating 2002 Exchange 2003 acquisitions change change 2003
profit before goodwill amortisation £m £m £m £m £m % £m
European Distribution 171.4 3.2 6.3 5.3 7.0 4.0 193.2
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution 200.7 (16.6) 1.0 16.3 0.8 0.4 202.2
US Building Materials Distribution 91.8 (8.3) 5.9 0.2 (12.1) (14.5) 77.5
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 463.9 (21.7) 13.2 21.8 (4.3) (1.0) 472.9
Turnover Operating profit Net assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
By class of business £m £m £m £m £m £m
European Distribution 2,956.7 2,517.5 182.0 162.1 1,206.4 771.0
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution 3,551.5 3,592.4 190.3 190.1 997.8 981.5
US Building Materials Distribution 1,712.8 1,857.7 70.7 85.0 524.3 552.5
Parent and others – – – – (37.3) (79.2)
8,221.0 7,967.6 443.0 437.2 2,691.2 2,225.8
Net assets are defined as fixed assets plus net current assets, less provisions for liabilities and charges but excluding investments, cash,
borrowings and dividends payable. The divisional operating and trading profits are stated after the allocation of central costs and charges.
Turnover
2003 2002
Turnover by geographical origin and destination £m £m
United Kingdom 1,819.7 1,623.7
France 658.3 544.4
United States 4,868.1 5,089.3
Canada 396.4 360.8
Rest of World 478.5 349.4
8,221.0 7,967.6
Turnover by geographical origin and destination are not materially different. In addition, turnover between business and geographical segments
is not material. 56 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
2. Operating profit
Continuing Total
operations Acquisitions 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Turnover 8,022.9 198.1 8,221.0 7,967.6
Cost of sales (5,855.5) (138.1) (5,993.6) (5,840.7)
Gross profit 2,167.4 60.0 2,227.4 2,126.9
Distribution costs (1,474.9) (34.3) (1,509.2) (1,472.4)
Administrative expenses (287.9) (14.2) (302.1) (246.4)
Other operating income 26.8 0.1 26.9 29.1
431.4 11.6 443.0 437.2
3. Amounts charged in arriving at operating profit
2003 2002
£m £m
Operating lease rentals:
– Plant and machinery 7.8 6.2
– Other operating leases 98.8 100.2
Depreciation (including profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets) 89.1 88.3
Depreciation on finance lease assets 4.0 4.2
Staff costs (note 8) 1,087.4 1,034.5
Goodwill amortisation 29.9 26.7
One-off costs incurred in respect of acquisition integration 0.5 7.1
Amounts payable to the auditors:
Audit fees
– Company 0.1 0.1
– Group 1.7 1.5
Taxation
– UK 1.5 2.0
– Rest of World 0.2 0.1
Due diligence reviews
– UK 0.3 0.5
– Rest of World 0.4 0.4
Other services
– UK – 0.1
– Rest of World 0.3 0.2
Total fees payable to the auditors 4.5 4.9
4. Net interest payable
2003 2002
£m £m
Interest receivable 19.2 44.1
Interest payable and similar charges
– Bank loans and overdrafts (35.9) (63.6)
– Other loans (0.1) (6.3)
– Finance lease charges (0.2) (0.7)
(17.0) (26.5)
Net interest receivable on construction loans amounted to £8.3 million (2002: £9.1 million). 57 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
5. Taxation
The corporate tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group principally operates are:
UK 30.0% (2002: 30.0%)
France 35.43% (2002: 35.43%)
US 35.0% federal tax (2002: 35.0%) plus applicable rates of state tax
2003 2002
The tax charge for the year comprises: £m £m
UK current year tax charge 39.3 29.0
– Less: double tax relief (9.2) (0.3)
30.1 28.7
– UK prior year 1.2 –
Total UK tax charge 31.3 28.7
Overseas current year tax charge 83.8 89.5
Overseas prior year 2.9 (10.1)
Total overseas tax charge 86.7 79.4
Total current tax 118.0 108.1
Deferred tax charge – origination and reversal of timing differences 9.6 14.4
Total tax charge 127.6 122.5
2003 2002
Tax reconciliation: % %
Average UK corporation tax rate 30 30
Prior year amounts 1 (1)
Non deductible and non-taxable items (4) (4)
Deferred tax-origination and reversal of timing differences (4) (4)
Higher average tax rates in overseas companies 4 5
Effective current tax rate on profit on ordinary activities before tax 27 26
2003 2002
Deferred tax £m £m
The elements of deferred tax are as follows:
Accelerated capital allowances 0.5 6.2
Other timing differences (13.7) (5.8)
Deferred tax (asset)/liability (13.2) 0.4
The movements in the deferred tax balance were as follows:
Liability/(asset) at beginning of year 0.4 (16.0)
Amount charged to profit and loss account 9.6 14.4
Acquisitions (17.7) 2.2
Transfers (4.0) –
Exchange (1.5) (0.2)
(Asset)/liability at end of year (13.2) 0.4
The closing balance is made up of:
Deferred tax asset (35.9) (11.3)
Deferred tax liability 22.7 11.7
(13.2) 0.4
There are other deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses totalling £0.1 million (2002: £0.1 million) that have not been recognised on the basis
that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
No provision has been made for deferred tax on gains recognised on revaluing property to its market value or on the sale of properties where
potentially taxable gains have been rolled over into replacement assets. Such tax would become payable only if the property were sold without
it being possible to claim rollover relief. The total amount unprovided for is £20.7 million (2002: £8.0 million). At present, it is not anticipated 
that any tax will become payable in the foreseeable future. 58 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
6. Dividends
2003 2002
£m £m
Interim paid 5.60 pence per share (2002: 5.00 pence) 32.6 28.9
Final proposed 15.60 pence per share (2002: 13.90 pence) 90.5 80.3
Total 21.20 pence per share (2002: 18.90 pence) 123.1 109.2
7. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share of 51.53 pence is calculated on the profit of £298.4 million accruing to ordinary share capital and on a weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 579.1 million. The impact of all potentially dilutive share options on earnings per share
would be to increase the weighted average number of shares in issue by 4.6 million and to reduce basic earnings per share to 51.12 pence. 
The earnings per share before goodwill amortisation of 56.69 pence is calculated on the profit of £328.3 million accruing to ordinary share capital.
8. Employee information and directors’ remuneration
2003 2002
Employment costs £m £m
Wages and salaries 941.0 896.8
Social security costs 118.0 113.5
Other pension costs (note 33) 28.4 24.2
1,087.4 1,034.5
Details of directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the remuneration report on pages 44 to 49.
2003 2002
Average weekly number of employees 000’s 000’s
European Distribution 15,829 14,063
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution 14,427 13,786
US Building Materials Distribution 9,043 9,287
39,299 37,136
9. Intangible fixed assets
The Group £m
Goodwill cost
At 1 August 2002 563.9
Additions 205.6
Disposals (0.9)
Revisions to prior year 5.8
Exchange rate adjustment 3.9
At 31 July 2003 778.3
Goodwill amortisation
At 1 August 2002 61.2
Charge for the year 29.9
Exchange rate adjustment 0.4
At 31 July 2003 91.5
Net book value at 31 July 2003 686.8
Net book value at 1 August 2002 502.7
Completion of opening balance sheet reviews of a further three acquisitions increased purchased goodwill by £5.8 million. Adjustment arose 
from the subsequent review of the valuation of properties of £5.4 million and the value of stocks and debtors acquired. The revised goodwill 
on acquisitions made in 2002 is £88.1 million. 59 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
10. Tangible fixed assets
Land and buildings
Long Short Plant
term term machinery
Freehold leasehold leasehold equipment Total
The Group £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 August 2002 397.2 13.8 138.5 524.2 1,073.7
Exchange rate adjustment 3.7 0.3 (0.3) 4.1 7.8
New businesses 66.7 0.1 19.1 23.4 109.3
Additions 25.7 2.3 16.6 81.6 126.2
Disposals and transfers (4.3) 0.9 (8.2) (24.7) (36.3)
Property awaiting disposal (3.9) – – – (3.9)
At 31 July 2003 485.1 17.4 165.7 608.6 1,276.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 August 2002 75.3 3.8 78.1 334.5 491.7
Exchange rate adjustment 1.4 0.1 (0.6) 2.9 3.8
Charge for the year
– owned assets 10.9 0.9 11.9 67.7 91.4
– leased assets ––– 4.0 4.0
Disposals and transfers (2.0) – (1.1) (26.8) (29.9)
Property awaiting disposal (0.8) – – – (0.8)
At 31 July 2003 84.8 4.8 88.3 382.3 560.2
Owned assets 400.3 12.6 77.4 197.3 687.6
Assets under finance leases – – – 29.0 29.0
Net book amount – 31 July 2003 400.3 12.6 77.4 226.3 716.6
Net book amount – 1 August 2002 321.9 10.0 60.4 189.7 582.0
The cost of tangible fixed assets at 31 July 2003 included £20.5 million (2002: £13.1 million) in respect of assets in the course of construction.
Freehold land, which is included above and amounts to £105.6 million (2002: £93.1 million), is not depreciated.
11. Investments
Investment
in own Trade Net book 
shares investments amount
The Group £m £m £m
Investment in own shares and trade investments
At 1 August 2002 0.1 – 0.1
Additions – 0.2 0.2
Disposals (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 July 2003 – 0.2 0.2
At 31 July 2003 there were no Wolseley plc ordinary shares of 25 pence each held by Wolseley QUEST Limited (2002: 16,692).
Investment in subsidiaries
Investment in Net book
own shares Cost Provisions amount
The Company £m £m £m £m
At 1 August 2002 0.1 1,512.4 (25.0) 1,487.4
Charge in year –– (0.9) (0.9)
Disposals (0.1) – – –
At 31 July 2003 – 1,512.4 (25.9) 1,486.5
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group and details of the nature of the shares held are listed on pages 77 to 78 of these accounts. 60 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
12. Stocks
The Group
2003 2002
£m £m
Goods purchased for resale 1,303.5 1,050.9
The current replacement cost of stocks does not differ materially from the historical cost stated above.
Certain subsidiary undertakings have consignment stock arrangements with suppliers in the ordinary course of business. Items drawn from
consignment stock are generally invoiced to the companies concerned at the price ruling at the date of drawdown. The value of such stock, 
at cost, which has been excluded from the balance sheet in accordance with the application notes included in FRS 5, amounted to £8.4 million
(2002: £8.1 million).
13. Debtors
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 1,545.2 1,179.8 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 2,560.8 2,302.2
Other debtors 127.1 123.3 2.6 –
Prepayments 51.7 43.2 0.1 2.6
Corporation tax recoverable 9.9 1.1 24.3 0.9
Property awaiting disposal 10.5 14.0 – –
1,744.4 1,361.4 2,587.8 2,305.7
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Deferred tax asset 35.9 11.3 0.8 –
1,780.3 1,372.7 2,588.6 2,305.7
14. Construction loans
The Group
2003 2002
£m £m
Construction loans receivable – secured 176.2 171.4
Borrowings to finance construction loans – unsecured (176.1) (171.4)
0.1 –
Construction loans receivable, which are secured principally against homes in the course of construction or completed homes awaiting sale,
are made to customers of Stock Building Supply Inc.
Included in construction loans receivable is an amount of £5.9 million (2002: £9.1 million) representing properties held for sale in lieu of 
foreclosed loans.
15. Current asset investments
The Group
2003 2002
£m £m
US Life Assurance policies 4.6 4.2
French SICAV, bonds and commercial paper 0.2 3.0
Austrian marketable securities (A3 bonds) 2.1 2.1
6.9 9.3 61 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
16. Short-term borrowings
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts:
Unsecured 198.6 246.8 305.6 289.1
Other loans:
Secured 8.4 5.0 – –
Unsecured – 0.4 – –
207.0 252.2 305.6 289.1
17. Creditors: amounts due within one year
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Trade creditors 1,135.5 773.8 – –
Bills of exchange payable 95.7 91.6 – –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 1,843.3 1,499.6
Corporation tax 72.6 46.0 – –
Other tax and social security 82.8 34.7 – –
Other creditors 102.2 77.0 4.1 4.9
Accruals and deferred income 163.4 142.5 5.3 2.5
Proposed dividend 90.5 80.3 90.5 80.3
1,742.7 1,245.9 1,943.2 1,587.3
18. Borrowings falling due after one year
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Maturity of borrowings
Due in one to two years 247.5 55.2 189.7 48.0
Due in two to five years 535.7 405.7 527.1 525.7
Due in over five years 59.3 46.7 – –
842.5 507.6 716.8 573.7
Repayable after five years otherwise than by instalments
US Industrial Revenue Bonds 3.1 3.2 – –
Bank facilities 48.1 43.3 – –
Repayable within 2 to 5 years
Finance leases and other facilities 6.2 – – –
Bank facilities 529.5 405.7 527.1 525.7
Repayable within 1 to 2 years
Finance leases and other facilities 7.6 7.1 – –
Bank facilities 239.9 48.1 189.7 48.0
Repayable by instalments all of which are due for repayment after five years
Other loans 8.1 0.2 – –
842.5 507.6 716.8 573.7
Details of the Group’s undrawn committed facilities are set out in the Operating and Financial Review on page 28.
Finance lease obligations included above are secured against the assets concerned. Other secured loans amounting to £1.2 million 
(2002: £10.7 million) are secured against various Group assets. 62 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
19. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Wolseley Other
Pensions Insurance provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 August 2002 43.7 21.3 52.0 117.0
Utilised in the year (29.6) (11.8) (0.9) (42.3)
Charge for the year 28.4 23.4 4.3 56.1
Transfers –– 1.1 1.1
New businesses 5.4 – 3.5 8.9
Exchange differences 4.2 (0.8) (0.3) 3.1
At 31 July 2003 52.1 32.1 59.7 143.9
Wolseley Insurance provisions represent certain accumulated balances on its general business fund in respect of provisions for outstanding 
and potential claims based on historical experience. 
Other provisions include, for property, £12.7 million, environmental and legal liabilities (including asbestos related litigation), £24.3 million and
deferred taxation, £22.7 million. The asbestos related litigation is fully covered by insurance and accordingly an equivalent insurance receivable
has been recorded in ‘Other debtors’ (note 13) in line with FRS 12 ‘Provisions, contingencies and contingent assets’. The provision and the
related receivable have been stated on a discounted basis. The level of insurance cover available significantly exceeds the expected level of
future claims and no profit or cash flow impact is therefore expected to arise in the foreseeable future.
At 31 July 2003 the Company had provisions of £ nil (2002: £ nil).
20. Share capital
Authorised Allotted and issued
2003 2002 2003 2002
Number of ordinary 25 pence shares (million) 800.0 800.0 580.7 577.9
Nominal value of ordinary 25 pence shares (million) £200.0 £200.0 £145.2 £144.5
All the allotted and issued shares are fully paid or credited as fully paid.
Allotment of shares
From 1 August 2002 to 31 July 2003, new ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company have been issued as follows:
Value/proceeds
Number of shares Price per share £m Purpose of issue
Various 989,404 251.00-597.00 3.0 Exercise of savings related share options
Various 1,731,212 220.75-483.50 6.4 Exercise of executive share options/stock appreciation rights
2,720,616 9.4
All employee share schemes
The maximum number of shares over which options may be granted (but excluding any which lapse) under all share option schemes and the
stock appreciation plan in any ten year period is 10% of the issued share capital from time to time. The number of shares over which options
may be granted under all such schemes as at 31 July 2003 was 58,067,032 of which 9,002,030 have already been issued pursuant to options
exercised in the ten year period ended on 31 July 2003. At year end, options over 11,500,784 shares (2002: 11,681,426) were outstanding, 
not exercisable later than September 2003 to November 2010. The prices per share ranged from 251 pence to 597 pence.
Executive share option schemes
The maximum number of shares over which options may be granted (but excluding any which lapse) under the rules of the executive share
option schemes in any ten year period is 5% of the issued share capital from time to time. The number of shares over which options may 
be granted as at 31 July 2003 was 29,033,516 of which 4,041,636 have already been issued pursuant to options exercised on or before 
31 July 2003. At year end, options over 8,617,596 shares (2002: 6,290,928) were outstanding, not exercisable later than October 2003 to
November 2012. The prices per share ranged from 350.25 pence to 543 pence. 63 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
21. Reserves
Share
premium Profit
account and loss
The Group £m £m
At 1 August 2002 169.1 1,286.3
Shares issued 8.7 –
Transfer from profit and loss account – 175.3
Currency translation differences –(10.4)
At 31 July 2003 177.8 1,451.2
Share
premium Profit
account and loss
The Company £m £m
At 1 August 2002 169.1 1,100.1
Shares issued 8.7 –
Transfer from profit and loss account – 60.1
Dividends payable –(123.1)
At 31 July 2003 177.8 1,037.1
As permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985, Wolseley plc has not presented its own profit and loss account.
Included in the Company profit and loss account balance is an amount of £938.9 million which may not be distributable.
22. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year 298.4 288.2 60.1 70.6
Dividends (123.1) (109.2) (123.1) (109.2)
Currency translation differences (10.4) (84.3) – –
New share capital subscribed 9.4 7.6 9.4 7.6
Goodwill written back on disposals – 1.2 – –
Net additions to shareholders’ funds 174.3 103.5 (53.6) (31.0)
Opening shareholders’ funds 1,599.9 1,496.4 1,413.7 1,444.7
Closing shareholders’ funds 1,774.2 1,599.9 1,360.1 1,413.7 64 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
23. Acquisitions
The details of acquisitions made since 1 August 2002 and consideration paid are shown in the Operating and Financial Review on 
pages 22 to 29.
The most significant acquisition was that of Pinault Bois et Matériaux (“PBM”) which was completed on 7 July 2003 for a consideration
(excluding debt) of m266.7 million (£183.9 million). Provisional goodwill of £132.1 million arose on this transaction. The net assets of the
businesses acquired during the year, as extracted from the vendors’ accounting records, and the fair value adjustments ascribed thereto, 
are set out below. 
Accounting
Book values Property policy Fair values
acquired revaluation alignments acquired
Pinault Bois et Matériaux £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 64.8 – (64.8) –
Tangible fixed assets 68.2 21.1 12.3 101.6
Stocks 174.7 – (16.5) 158.2
Debtors 263.0 – 0.1 263.1
Cash at bank or in hand 13.8 – – 13.8
Creditors (257.9) – 2.5 (255.4)
Taxation 11.0 – 5.4 16.4
Borrowings – short-term (216.5) – – (216.5)
Borrowings – long-term (6.3) – (14.2) (20.5)
Provisions (11.2) – 2.3 (8.9)
Total 103.6 21.1 (72.9) 51.8
Prior to acquisition, PBM reported a turnover for the year ended 31 December 2002 of £861.1 million and a profit before tax of £42.2 million. 
The profit before tax for the period from 1 January 2003 to 7 July 2003 was £23.2 million. Valuers are currently undertaking a detailed exercise
to assess the fair value of properties, the completion of their exercise may lead to revisions to the fair values at which the properties were
acquired. The accounting policy adjustment to tangible fixed assets reflects the capitalisation of certain finance leases not treated as such in 
the local books. The book value of stocks has been adjusted to write down slow moving and obsolete stocks to their estimated net realisable
amount in accordance with Group accounting policy, this adjustment was the best estimate currently available and may be revised once
additional information is available. Further adjustments to goodwill may be necessary when additional information is available concerning 
some other judgmental areas.
Accounting
Book values Property policy Fair values
acquired revaluation alignments acquired
Other £m £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 14.9 (0.6) (1.2) 13.1
Stocks 37.0 – (1.7) 35.3
Debtors 41.3 – (1.0) 40.3
Cash at bank or in hand 4.5 – – 4.5
Creditors (34.9) – (0.1) (35.0)
Taxation (1.2) – – (1.2)
Borrowings – short-term (12.5) – – (12.5)
Borrowings – long-term (0.1) – – (0.1)
Total 49.0 (0.6) (4.0) 44.4
The accounting policy adjustments to tangible fixed assets reflect their restatement at depreciated replacement cost with useful lives
determined in accordance with Group accounting policies. The book value of stocks has been adjusted to write down slow moving and
obsolete stocks to their estimated net realisable values in accordance with the Group accounting policy. Adjustments to debtors comprise
provisions for bad and doubtful debts in accordance with the Group accounting policy. The fair value adjustments shown above for the year
ended 31 July 2003 are provisional figures, being the best estimates currently available. Further adjustments to goodwill may be necessary
when additional information is available concerning some of the judgmental areas.
The acquisitions in the year are listed on page 79. 65 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
23. Acquisitions (continued)
Consideration Fair value
(excluding of net
debt assets
assumed) acquired Goodwill
Goodwill £m £m £m
European Distribution 244.5 69.7 174.8
North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution 21.7 9.6 12.1
US Building Materials Distribution 35.6 16.9 18.7
301.8 96.2 205.6
At 31 July 2003 deferred consideration outstanding was £6.4 million (2002: £1.1 million) payable in cash.
2003
The aggregate amount of goodwill written off to reserves since 1 May 1958 is as follows: £m
North American acquisitions 286.7
French acquisitions 110.1
Austrian acquisitions 67.9
Other acquisitions 108.9
Total 573.6
24. Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase of businesses
2003 2002
£m £m
Purchase consideration (note 23) 301.8 114.5
Net deferred payments (5.3) 9.6
Cash consideration 296.5 124.1
Cash/bank overdrafts acquired 210.7 45.8
507.2 169.9
25. Analysis of the net inflow of cash in respect of the sale of businesses
2003 2002
£m £m
Disposal proceeds 3.0 8.2 
During this year the Group disposed of two operations in the North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution Division. Assets of £1.9 million
were disposed of including goodwill of £0.9 million. A loss of £0.9 million was recorded on disposal. During the year, proceeds of £2.0 million
were received in respect of disposals made in prior years.
26. Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2003 2002
£m £m
Operating profit 443.0 437.2
Depreciation (including profit/loss on fixed asset disposals) 93.1 92.5
Goodwill amortisation 29.9 26.7
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (48.3) 7.4
Increase in debtors (32.9) (24.0)
Increase in creditors and provisions 123.0 44.0
(Increase)/decrease in construction loans receivable (9.7) 44.1
Increase/(decrease) in construction loans payable 9.6 (43.8)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 607.7 584.1 66 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
27. Analysis of cash flows shown net in the cash flow statement
2003 2002
£m £m
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 15.1 43.9
Interest paid (39.7) (65.7)
Interest element of finance lease rentals (0.2) (0.7)
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (24.8) (22.5)
Capital expenditure
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets (124.3) (118.3)
Receipts from sales of tangible fixed assets 16.1 21.5
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure (108.2) (96.8)
Management of liquid resources
Decrease in current asset investments 2.9 4.8
Decrease/(increase) in money market and other deposits 28.9 (3.4)
Net cash inflow from management of liquid resources 31.8 1.4
Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 9.4 7.6
Drawdown/(repayment) of long-term borrowings 307.8 (104.2)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (2.4) (2.2)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing 314.8 (98.8)
The Group includes in liquid resources all current asset investments and interest-bearing amounts on deposit which are readily disposable and
convertible into cash at values close to book value.
28. Analysis of change in net debt
Acquisitions
and new
finance Exchange
2002 Cash flow leases movement 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash in hand and at bank 176.0 43.0 – (3.1) 215.9
Overdrafts (247.2) 53.0 – (4.4) (198.6)
(71.2) 96.0 – (7.5) 17.3
Debt due after more than one year (502.1) (307.8) – (11.9) (821.8)
Finance leases (10.5) 2.4 (20.6) (0.4) (29.1)
(512.6) (305.4) (20.6) (12.3) (850.9)
Current asset investments 9.3 (2.9) – 0.5 6.9
Money market and other deposits 28.9 (28.9) – – –
38.2 (31.8) – 0.5 6.9
Net debt (545.6) (241.2) (20.6) (19.3) (826.7) 67 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
29. Related party transactions
There are no related party transactions requiring disclosure under FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures.
30. Assets and liabilities by currency
US Other Group
Sterling dollars Euros currencies total
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 July 2003
Intangible fixed assets 173.3 275.8 174.9 62.8 686.8
Tangible fixed assets 184.1 336.2 176.5 20.0 716.8
Stocks 262.1 639.0 337.2 65.2 1,303.5
Debtors 342.9 805.3 551.3 80.9 1,780.4
Creditors (309.6) (623.7) (583.4) (62.9) (1,579.6)
Provisions (12.0) (82.0) (45.7) (4.2) (143.9)
Taxation (53.3) (1.2) (15.4) (2.7) (72.6)
Proposed dividend (90.5) – – – (90.5)
Gross assets 497.0 1,349.4 595.4 159.1 2,600.9
(Borrowings)/funds – net
– Short-term 29.1 216.2 (238.4) 8.9 15.8
– Long-term –(635.0) (159.6) (47.9) (842.5)
Net assets 526.1 930.6 197.4 120.1 1,774.2
Exchange rates at 31 July 2003
Balance sheet $1.6076 m1.4171
Profit and loss account $1.5951 m1.5039
As at 31 July 2002
Gross assets 395.1 1,380.9 218.2 151.3 2,145.5
(Borrowings)/funds – net
– Short-term (5.4) 19.0 (49.5) (2.1) (38.0)
– Long-term –(332.4) (51.1) (124.1) (507.6)
Net assets 389.7 1,067.5 117.6 25.1 1,599.9
Exchange rates at 31 July 2002
Balance sheet $1.5622 m1.5934
Profit and loss account $1.4569 m1.6085
As at 31 July 2003, the Group had entered into certain short-term currency swaps amounting to assets of $190.0 million and £140.5 million
and liabilities of m120.3 million and Canadian $165.0 million. Both the assets and liabilities are excluded from the above tables.
There are no material foreign currency transactional exposures as, where appropriate, Group companies use forward exchange contracts 
to hedge transactions that are not denominated in their functional currency. 68 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
31. Interest rate and currency profile
The current value of interest bearing assets, borrowings and off balance sheet contracts is as follows:
Weighted Weighted
Off average average
Interest balance fixed time for
bearing sheet interest which rate
assets Borrowings contracts Net Floating Fixed Total rate is fixed
Currency £m £m £m £m £m £m £m % years
Sterling 29.1 – 40.5 69.6 69.6 – 69.6 – –
US dollars 333.4 (752.2) 118.2 (300.6) (67.3) (233.3) (300.6) 2.7 1.6
Euros 44.0 (442.0) (85.0) (483.0) (303.0) (180.0) (483.0) 2.9 2.4
Canadian dollars 12.3 (51.4) (73.5) (112.6) (71.9) (40.7) (112.6) 6.0 5.7
Other currencies 5.2 (5.1) – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 – –
Total 424.0 (1,250.7) 0.2 (826.5) (372.5) (454.0) (826.5)
The off balance sheet contracts are currency and interest rate swaps as set out below. Interest receipts and payments on the floating rate
assets and liabilities are determined by reference to short-term benchmark rates applicable to the relevant currency or market, such as LIBOR.
The Group has entered into the following interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements with the following net effect as at 31 July 2003:
Amount Expiry date Wolseley receives Wolseley pays
US$100 million October 2003 3 month LIBOR 3.625% to 3.64%
US$100 million November 2003 3 month LIBOR 3.709% to 3.72%
EUR30 million February 2004 3 month EURIBOR 4.185%
US$125 million September 2005 6 month LIBOR 2.0375% to 2.06%
US$50 million September 2006 6 month LIBOR 2.64% to 2.665%
EUR50 million August 2005 6 month EURIBOR 2.53% to 2.535%
EUR75 million October 2005 6 month EURIBOR 2.575% to 2.6075%
EUR100 million October 2006 6 month EURIBOR 2.90% to 2.915%
32. Financial instruments
The Group held the following categories of financial instruments as at 31 July 2003:
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Financial instruments held to fund the Group’s operations
Short-term borrowings (207.0) (207.0)
Loans and other borrowings payable after one year (842.5) (842.5)
Cash and deposits 215.9 215.9
Construction loans receivable 176.2 176.2
Construction loans payable (176.1) (176.1)
Current asset investments 6.9 6.9
Financial instruments held to manage the Group’s interest rate and currency profile
Interest rate swaps –(0.8)
Short-term currency swaps – 0.2
For the purpose of the previous table, the fair values of short-term borrowings, cash and deposits, construction loans payable and current
asset investments, approximate book value due to their short maturities. The loans and other borrowings payable after one year generally
attract variable interest rates based on 6 month LIBOR. Thus the fair value of these instruments as at 31 July 2003 also approximates to their
book value. The fair value of construction loans receivable approximates to book value as the interest rates attaching to these loans reflect 
a market risk premium. Sterling cash and deposits are utilised to reduce currency borrowings through the use of short-term currency swaps.
To determine the fair value of currency and interest rate swaps for inclusion in the above table, a calculation was made of the net gain or loss
which would have arisen if these contracts had been terminated on 31 July 2003. 69 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
32. Financial instruments (continued)
At 31 July 2003, unrecognised gains and losses on forward exchange contracts taken out as hedges of sales and purchase transactions 
were not significant.
The Group’s policy in respect of foreign currency and interest risk management and the related use of financial instruments are set out in the
treasury section of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 28 and 29 and form part of these financial statements.
Short-term debtors and creditors arising directly from the Group’s operations are excluded from the above disclosures other than those relating
to assets and liabilities by currency.
33. Pensions and other post retirement benefits
United Kingdom
The principal plan operated for UK employees is the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan which provides benefits based on final pensionable
salaries. The assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The plan’s retirement benefits are funded by a contribution from employees
of 5% of earnings with the balance being paid by Group companies. The contribution rate is calculated on the Projected Unit Method and agreed
with an independent consulting actuary.
An independent actuarial valuation was last carried out on 1 May 2001. On that date the market value of the plan’s assets was £350.5 million.
The market value of the assets was 105% of accrued benefits, after allowing for increases in earnings and pensions in payment. The normal
cost to the Company was 14.4% of pensionable earnings. The financial assumptions used were based on gilt and bond yields as at the valuation
date. The principal actuarial assumptions used were an investment return of 6.5% per annum before retirement and an investment return of
5.5% per annum after retirement, future salary increases of 5% or 6% per annum and increases to pensions in payment of 2.5% per annum.
The total charge to the profit and loss account for UK companies was £12.3 million (2002: £9.4 million).
North America
The principal plans operated for US employees are defined contribution schemes, details of which are set out below. In addition, the Group
operates three defined benefit schemes in the United States. In Canada a defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme are
operated. The majority of assets are held in trustee administered funds independent of the assets of the companies.
Defined contribution plans
Defined contribution plans are established in accordance with US 401k rules. Companies contribute to both employee compensation deferral
and profit sharing plans. Contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which they fall due. In the year to 31 July 2003
the cost of defined contribution plans charged to the profit and loss account was £10.7 million (2002: £9.9 million).
Defined benefit plans
Defined benefit plans are operated by three US subsidiary undertakings and Wolseley Canada. Two of the US plans and the Canadian plan 
are funded; two plans are closed to new entrants. The closed plans now provide a minimum pension guarantee in conjunction with a defined
contribution plan. The remaining plans provide benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The contribution rate is calculated on the Projected
Unit (credit) Method as agreed with independent consulting actuaries. The independent actuaries have reported on the assets and liabilities of
the plans at 31 July 2002. The principal actuarial assumptions were based upon investment returns of 7%-7.5% and future salary increases 
of 4%. The obligations are discounted at 7%. The fair value of the assets of the funded plans amounted to £44.0 million. The market value of
the assets was 81.3% of the accrued benefits. Surpluses and deficits revealed by the valuation are being amortised over the expected remaining
service lives of members. The total profit and loss account charge for North American schemes was £2.7 million (2002: £3.2 million).
Other territories
Both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes are operated. Liabilities arising under defined benefit schemes are calculated in
accordance with actuarial advice. Full provision is made for such liabilities in these accounts. Contributions to defined contribution schemes 
are accounted for in the period in which they fall due.
The cost of other defined contribution and defined benefit schemes charged to the profit and loss account was £2.7 million (2002: £2.7 million).
Post retirement health care
There are no material obligations to provide post retirement health care benefits.
FRS 17 retirement benefits
The valuation used for FRS 17 disclosures with respect to the UK scheme has been based on the most recent actuarial valuation at 1 May 2001
and updated by the scheme actuary to take account of the requirements of FRS 17 in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 31 July 2003.
Scheme assets are stated at their market value at 31 July 2003. Non-UK schemes have been aggregated and weighted averages applied. 70 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
33. Pensions and other post retirement benefits continued
The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities under FRS 17 are:
2003 2002 2001
UK Non-UK UK Non-UK UK Non-UK
Projected Projected Projected Projected Projected Projected
Valuation method Unit Unit Unit Unit Unit Unit
Discount rate 5.50% 5.96% 6.00% 6.50% 6.00% 6.24%
Inflation rate 2.64% 2.50% 2.45% 2.50% 2.64% 2.50%
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 2.65% 2.00% 2.50% 2.50% 2.75% 3.86%
Increases to pensions in payment 2.65% 1.82% 2.50% 2.50% 2.75% 3.86%
Salary increases 4.65% 3.41% 4.50% 3.50% 4.75% 3.43%
The assets in the UK schemes and the expected rates of return were:
2003 2002 2001
UK UK UK
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of rate of rate of
return Value at return Value at return Value at
expected at 31 July expected at 31 July expected at 31 July
31 July 2003 31 July 2002 31 July 2001
2003 £m 2002 £m 2001 £m
Equities 6.75% 144.6 7.00% 130.1 7.00% 164.3
Bonds 4.50% 34.8 5.00% 39.8 5.00% 40.2
Overseas 6.75% 106.6 6.90% 92.6 6.90% 119.5
Other 5.30% 4.0 5.00% 6.1 5.00% 5.2
Total market value of assets 6.46% 290.0 6.62% 268.6 6.69% 329.2
Present value of schemes liabilities (432.4) (354.7) (342.1)
Deficit in the schemes (142.4) (86.1) (12.9)
Related deferred tax asset 42.7 25.8 3.9
Net pension liability (99.7) (60.3) (9.0)
The assets in the non-UK schemes and the expected rates of return were:
2003 2002 2001
Non-UK Non-UK Non-UK
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of rate of rate of
return Value at return Value at return Value at
expected at 31 July expected at 31 July expected at 31 July
31 July 2003 31 July 2002 31 July 2001
2003 £m 2002 £m 2001 £m
Equities –– ––––
Bonds –– ––––
Overseas 7.10% 49.5 7.35% 45.9 8.47% 53.5
Other –– ––––
Total market value of assets 7.10% 49.5 7.35% 45.9 8.47% 53.5
Present value of schemes liabilities (113.2) (91.6) (101.5)
Deficit in the schemes (63.7) (45.7) (48.0)
Related deferred tax asset 22.8 16.3 14.4
Net pension liability (40.9) (29.4) (33.6)
Overseas assets comprised £15.3 million of overseas bonds with an expected return of 5.39%, £33.3 million of equities with an expected
return of 8.00% and other assets of £0.9 million with a 3.00% expected return. 71 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
33. Pensions and other post retirement benefits continued
The Group
2003 2002
Adjustment to net assets under FRS17 £m £m
Net assets 1,774.2 1,599.9
Pension liability over that established under SSAP24 (108.0) (60.4)
Net assets including pension liability 1,666.2 1,539.5
The Group
2003 2002
Adjustment to reserves under FRS17 £m £m
Profit and loss reserve 1,451.2 1,286.3
Pension liability over that established under SSAP24 (108.0) (60.4)
Profit and loss reserve 1,343.2 1,225.9
The net pension liability of £140.6 million calculated in accordance with FRS 17 compares with the pension provision for defined benefit
schemes currently recorded of £50.1 million less the related deferred tax asset of £17.5 million.
UK Non-UK UK Non-UK
2003 2003 2002 2002
Analysis of amount charged to operating profit £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 11.1 1.6 10.4 3.1
UK Non-UK UK Non-UK
2003 2003 2002 2002
Analysis of amount charged to other finance income/(expense) £m £m £m £m
Interest on pension liabilities (21.6) (5.2) (20.6) (5.6)
Expected return on scheme assets 18.0 3.4 22.2 3.4
(3.6) (1.8) 1.6 (2.2)
UK Non-UK UK Non-UK
2003 2003 2002 2002
Movement in scheme deficit during year £m £m £m £m
Deficit at 1 August (86.1) (45.7) (12.9) (48.1)
Exchange –(3.2) – 1.8
Acquisitions –(5.4) ––
Current service cost (11.1) (1.6) (10.4) (3.1)
Contributions 11.8 3.2 9.0 2.9
Other finance income/(expenses) (3.6) (1.8) 1.6 (2.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (53.4) (9.2) (73.4) 3.0
Deficit at 31 July (142.4) (63.7) (86.1) (45.7)
UK Non-UK UK Non-UK
2003 2003 2002 2002
History of experience gains and losses £m £m £m £m
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets
Amount (1.9) (2.2) (84.5) (5.3)
Percentage of scheme assets 0.7% 4.4% 31.5% 11.5%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
Amount – 1.4 (0.9) 9.0
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.0% 1.2% 0.3% 9.8%
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities
Amount (51.5) (8.4) 12.0 (0.7)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 11.9% 7.4% 3.4% 0.8%
Total amount recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
Amount (53.4) (9.2) (73.4) 3.0
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 12.3% 8.1% 20.7% 3.3% 72 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
34. Capital commitments
At 31 July 2003 authorised capital expenditure which was contracted for but not provided in these accounts amounted to £43.8 million 
(2002: £48.1 million).
35. Operating lease commitments
Future minimum payments due in the next twelve months under operating lease commitments are as follows:
Property leases Other leases
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Leases which expire within
12 months 7.4 7.3 4.0 1.4
13-24 months 11.6 11.1 5.2 3.6
25-36 months 12.1 11.7 3.2 3.7
37-48 months 11.7 8.0 0.7 0.6
49-60 months 8.9 8.6 0.3 0.4
Over 60 months 47.5 39.3 1.0 0.7
99.2 86.0 14.4 10.4
36. Contingent liabilities
Wolseley plc and the Group have the undermentioned quantifiable contingent liabilities which arose in the ordinary course of business and
which have not been provided in these accounts since no actual liability is expected to arise:
The Group The Company
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Value added tax of certain subsidiary undertakings – – 7.5 7.8
Sundry guarantees, performance bonds and indemnities 70.0 29.8 0.6 0.6
Obligations under forward foreign exchange contracts 158.7 131.8 158.7 –
In addition, Wolseley plc has given its principal UK bank authority to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit against or towards
satisfaction of the liability to the bank of certain subsidiary undertakings.
As of 31 July 2003, cash deposits of Wolseley Insurance Limited amounting to £32.7 million (2002: £28.9 million) were charged in favour of 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc to secure letters of credit provided by that bank.
The Company acts as guarantor or surety for various subsidiary undertakings in leasing and other agreements entered into by them in the
normal course of business and has given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company and certain Group
companies in respect of which no material liabilities are expected to arise. Additionally, the Company has guaranteed the pension payable 
by Brossette BTI to Mr. G. Pinault, a former director.
37. Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant post balance sheet events. 73 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
38. Summary of significant differences between accounting
principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and 
the United States
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”), which differ in certain significant
respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (“US GAAP”). Such differences involve methods 
for measuring the amounts shown in the financial statements, 
as well as additional disclosures required by US GAAP .
A summary of the principal differences applicable to the Group 
are set out below:
(i) Purchase accounting adjustments
Under UK GAAP the purchase price of a business is assigned first
to the separable tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on
the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess 
of cost over the fair value of net tangible assets is then allocated 
to identifiable intangible assets to the extent that their value can be
measured reliably on initial recognition, the asset can be separately
disposed of and the asset is controlled through custody or legal
right. Any remaining excess should then be recorded as goodwill.
Under US GAAP , the purchase cost of an investment is assigned 
to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess
of cost over fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The purchase accounting differences specifically related to the
Group are as follows:
Goodwill
Prior to 1 August 1998, purchased goodwill was written off to
reserves in the year of acquisition as permitted under UK GAAP .
Since 1 August 1998, all acquired goodwill has been capitalised 
and amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years. If a subsidiary 
or a business is subsequently sold or closed, previously written off
goodwill which was the result of the initial acquisition is taken into
account in determining the profit or loss on sale or closure.
Under US GAAP prior to 1 January 2002, goodwill arising on
acquisitions prior to 1 July 2001, was capitalised and amortised 
over its estimated useful life, not exceeding 40 years. Under the
transition provisions of SFAS 142 “Goodwill and other intangible
assets”, goodwill which arose during the period subsequent to 
1 July 2001 has not been amortised. From 1 August 2002, goodwill
is no longer amortised, but is reviewed annually for impairment. 
The Group completed the required impairment tests during 
2003 which indicated no impairment charge was required.
Intangible assets
Under UK GAAP specific criteria apply in recognising intangible
assets. None of the Group’s intangible assets meet these criteria 
and accordingly intangible assets have not been separately recorded.
Under US GAAP , intangible assets acquired are recorded at their fair
value. Intangible assets are comprised of covenants not to compete,
trademarks, customer contracts and supply and distribution
agreements. Intangible assets are being amortised over their 
useful lives which range from one to seven years.
Inventory
Under UK GAAP , the fair value of inventories acquired is generally
taken to be the cost of the inventory to the acquired company.
Under US GAAP the fair value of purchased work in process and
finished goods is based on estimated selling prices less costs to
complete and sell the inventory, less a reasonable profit allowance
for the completing and selling effort.
Contingent purchase consideration
Under UK GAAP contingent purchase consideration is generally
included as part of the purchase cost at the date of acquisition.
Under US GAAP this cost is not recognised until the contingency 
is resolved and the amount determinable.
(ii) Pensions
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in the UK, USA,
Canada, France, Austria, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. The most
significant plan is the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan in
the UK, which after recent stock market falls is in a deficit position.
Under UK GAAP , the cost of providing pension benefits is expensed
over the average expected service lives of eligible employees in
accordance with the provisions of Statement of Standard Accounting
Practice (“SSAP”) 24, Accounting for Pension Costs. SSAP 24 
aims to produce an estimate of cost based on long-term actuarial
assumptions. Variations from the regular pension cost arising from,
for example, experience deficiencies or surpluses, are charged or
credited to the profit and loss account over the expected average
remaining service lives of current employees in the schemes.
Under US GAAP , the annual pension cost comprises the estimated
cost of benefits accruing in the period as determined in accordance
with SFAS 87, “Employers Accounting for Pensions”. SFAS 87 requires
the use of the projected unit credit actuarial method for determining
defined benefit pension costs and provides for the deferral of actuarial
gains and losses (in excess of a specified corridor) that result 
from changes in assumptions or actual experience. SFAS 132,
“Employers Disclosure about Pensions and Other Post-Retirement
Benefits”, requires disclosure of the components of net periodic
pension cost and the funded status of the pension plans. 74 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Notes to the accounts continued
Year ended 31 July 2003
(iii) Deferred taxation
Under UK GAAP , provision is made for deferred tax in so far as a
liability or asset arose as a result of transactions that had occurred
by the balance sheet date and gave rise to an obligation to pay more
tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future. An asset 
has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic
benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
recognised have not been discounted. Provision is made for UK 
or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the UK of retained
profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have
been recognised as receivable.
Under US GAAP , deferred taxation is provided for on a full liability
basis. Under the full liability method, deferred tax assets or liabilities
are recognised for differences between the accounting and taxation
basis of assets and liabilities and for tax loss carry forwards at 
the statutory rate at each reporting date. A valuation allowance 
is established when it is more likely than not that some portion 
or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realised.
The recognised deferred tax asset is based upon the expected
future utilisation of tax loss carry forwards and the reversal of other
temporary differences. The tax loss carry forwards do not expire 
and there are no current restrictions on their utilisation. For financial
reporting purposes, the Group has recognised a valuation allowance
for those benefits for which realisation does not meet the more likely
than not criteria. No provision has been made in respect of unremitted
foreign earnings because they are intended to be permanently
reinvested. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional
tax that might be payable on these other foreign earnings.
(iv) Share compensation
The Company operates six share option plans: the 1984 Executive
Share Option Scheme and the 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme
(collectively, the “Executive Option Schemes”); the Wolseley Employees
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1981 and Wolseley Irish
Sharesave Scheme 2001 (collectively, the “Employees Savings Option
Schemes”); the Wolseley Employee Share Purchase Plan 2001 
(the “Employee Share Purchase Plan”); and the Wolseley Employees
International Stock Appreciation Plan (the “SAP”).
Under UK GAAP , no compensation expense is required to be
recognised for any of these option plans. Under US GAAP , 
stock based compensation for the Executive Option Schemes, 
the Employees Savings Option Schemes and the Employee Share
Purchase Plan can be accounted for based on either (i) the intrinsic
value of the stock award on the date of the grant, following
Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) 25, Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees; or (ii) the fair value of the award on 
the date of grant following SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation. Prior to 2003, the Group elected to use the intrinsic
value method of accounting in accordance with APB 25. Under APB
25, compensation expense is measured as the difference between
the exercise price and the quoted market price of the stock at the
measurement date (the date when both the exercise price and 
the number of shares of stock are known). From 1 August 2002, 
the Group elected to change its method of accounting to the fair
value method, where compensation expense is measured as the 
fair value of the option at the date of grant. The Group has taken
advantage of the “modified prospective” transition provisions of
SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation – Transition
and Disclosure – an Amendment of SFAS 123. Under this modified
prospective methodology, all unvested share options at 1 August 2002
have been accounted for under the fair value method. Awards granted
under the Executive Option Schemes vest over a period of three years.
Awards granted under the Employee Savings Option Schemes vest
over periods ranging from three to seven years. Awards granted
under the Employee Share Purchase Plan vest over a one year period.
The SAP is treated as a variable plan since the cash to be received
by the employees is indeterminate at the date of grant. As a variable
plan, the compensation cost is determined each year with reference
to the period-end quoted market price of the stock, and the charge 
is only actually fixed once the cash to be paid to employees is known.
Awards granted under the SAP vest over a period of five years.
(v) Capitalised interest
Under UK GAAP , the Group does not capitalise interest on specific
or general borrowings to finance the construction of certain tangible
fixed assets. Under US GAAP , this interest is capitalised. The amount
of interest capitalised is based on a weighted average method
considering the general borrowings outstanding during the period.
(vi) Ordinary dividend
Under UK GAAP , ordinary dividends proposed are provided for in
the year in respect of which they are recommended by the board of
directors although approval of the final dividend will not take place until
the Company’s Annual General Meeting subsequent to the year-end.
Under US GAAP , such dividends are provided for in the year in
which they are declared and approved by the board of directors.
(vii) Derivative instruments and hedging activities
Under UK GAAP , derivative financial instruments that reduce
exposures on anticipated future transactions may be accounted for
using hedge accounting. Under US GAAP all derivatives are recorded
at fair value. If certain conditions and criteria set out in FAS 133
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” 
are met, hedge accounting would apply. Wolseley has designated
its derivative financial instruments as qualifying hedge instruments
under US GAAP and as such, these instruments are carried 
at fair value with valuation adjustments recorded through other
comprehensive income.
(viii) Presentation of earnings per share
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and potentially
dilutive ordinary shares, which includes the dilutive effect of stock
options. Dilutive potential ordinary shares for all periods presented
are computed utilising the treasury stock method. 75 Notes to the accounts Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
39. Reconciliation between UK and US GAAP
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to consolidated profit for the financial year and consolidated shareholders’ funds that
would have been required in applying the significant differences between UK and US GAAP .
2003 2002
Reconciliation of consolidated profit for the financial year Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial year under UK GAAP 298.4 288.2
US GAAP adjustments:
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets (i) 25.6 (28.1)
Pensions (ii) (6.6) (0.7)
Deferred taxation (iii) (0.3) (1.5)
Stock compensation (iv) (10.2) (7.7)
Capitalised interest (v) 0.2 –
Taxation effect of US GAAP adjustments 3.5 (6.3)
Total US GAAP adjustments 12.2 (44.3)
Profit for the financial year under US GAAP (note 1) 310.6 243.9
Presentation of earnings per share under US GAAP
Basic earnings per share (pence) (viii) 53.64 42.26
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 53.21 41.84
Weighted average share outstanding (millions) 579.1 577.1
Dilutive effect of stock options (millions) 4.6 5.8
Weighted average shares outstanding assuming dilution (millions) 583.7 582.9
2003 2002
Reconciliation of consolidated shareholders’ funds Notes £m £m
Shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 1,774.2 1,599.9
US GAAP adjustments:
Goodwill and intangibles (i) 454.7 430.0
Goodwill and intangible amortisation (i) (207.7) (233.3)
Contingent consideration (i) 6.4 1.1
Pensions (ii) (50.7) (20.3)
Deferred taxation (iii) (20.8) (8.4)
Capitalised interest (v) 3.1 2.9
Ordinary dividends (vi) 90.5 80.3
Derivative financial instruments (vii) (0.6) (5.6)
Taxation effect of US GAAP adjustments (2.1) 4.9
Total US GAAP adjustments 272.8 251.6
Shareholders’ funds under US GAAP 2,047.0 1,851.5
Note 1: In 2002, the Group recognised goodwill amortisation totalling £46.0 million for US GAAP purposes. Following the adoption of 
SFAS 142 on 1 August 2002, the Group no longer amortises goodwill and as a result no goodwill amortisation has been recorded in 
the determination of profit in accordance with US GAAP , for the year ended 31 July 2003. 76 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Wolseley plc Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Wolseley plc
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the 
profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, 
the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related
notes which have been prepared under the historical cost convention
and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting
policies. We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors’
remuneration report (“the auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of
directors’ responsibilities. The directors are also responsible for
preparing the directors’ remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the
auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. 
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not
consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions
is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. The other information comprises only the directors’
report, the unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report, 
the chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the operating
and financial review and the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required
to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness 
of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable 
part of the directors’ remuneration report. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by
the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of 
the directors’ remuneration report are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation
of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
>the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 July 2003 and 
of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
>the financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
>those parts of the directors’ remuneration report required by 
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Temple Court
35 Bull Street
Birmingham
B4 6JT
22 September 2003
a. The maintenance and integrity of the Wolseley plc website is 
the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and,
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they
were initially presented on the website.
b. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions. 77 Principal subsidiary undertakings and their directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Principal subsidiary undertakings 
and their directors
EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTION
UNITED KINGDOM
Wolseley Centers Limited, Ripon
North Yorkshire HG4 1SL
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
C A Banks, A Barden, K Evans, D Hufton, K H D Jones, 
D E Moody, P W Sheppard, P G Shewbrook, I Tillotson, 
M J Neville, M J White (Secretary) 
FRANCE
*Brossette SA, 69007 Lyon 
(Incorporated and operational in France) 
J R Descours, C A Banks, A Domenget, 
C Poulaillon, D A Vilbois 
*Pinault Bois et Matériaux SA, 92200 Neuilly sur Seine 
(Incorporated and operational in France)
JR Descours, O Marzloff
AUSTRIA
*ÖAG Handelsbeteiligungs AG, 1110 Vienna 
(Incorporated and operational in Austria) 
A Hartlieb, J Dutter, A Lassnig, A M Wolff, P W Sheppard 
NETHERLANDS
*Wasco Holding BV, Twello
(Incorporated and operational in the Netherlands) 
G J Th van den Belt, H A T van den Belt, O G J van den Belt
DENMARK
*Electro – Oil International AS, Glostrup
(Incorporated and operational in Denmark) 
B Oestergaard, Mrs A Boldt, I Tillotson 
IRELAND
*Heatmerchants Ltd, Athlone, Co. Westmeath
(Incorporated and operational in the Republic of Ireland) 
M McCague, B McTernan, M O’Brien, C Soden, 
K H D Jones, S McBride, P Roche
HUNGARY
*Mart Kft, Budapest
(Incorporated and operational in Hungary) 
W Hatzl, A M Wolff
CZECH REPUBLIC
*Cesaro Spol sro, Prague
(Incorporated and operational in the Czech Republic) 
A M Wolff, C Vogelesang
ITALY
*Manzardo SpA, 39100 Bolzano
(Incorporated and operational in Italy)
C Manzardo, J R Descours, P W Sheppard, 
S P Webster, C A Banks 
LUXEMBOURG
*Comptoir des Fers et Métaux SA, L-1882 Luxembourg 
(Incorporated and operational in Luxembourg) J-A Thorn, 
Y Cheret, H Baraer, D A Vilbois, M J White 
NORTH AMERICAN PLUMBING & HEATING
USA
*Ferguson Enterprises Inc, Newport News, Virginia 23602 
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
C S Hornsby, C A Banks, J R English, J H Garrett, S F Grosslight,
M L Grunkemeyer, W S Hargette, S P Mitchell, F W Roach, 
D P Strup, T G Adams, L J Stoddard
*Familian Northwest Inc, Portland, Oregon 97217
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America) 
C A Banks, L Burback, C S Hornsby
*Westburne Supply Inc, Plymouth, Minnesota
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America) 
C S Hornsby, C Nichol, S P Mitchell
Note: both Familian Northwest Inc and Westburne Supply Inc 
were merged into Ferguson Enterprises Inc from 1 August 2003.
CANADA
*Wolseley Canada Inc, Burlington, Ontario
(Incorporated and operational in Canada)
P R Lachance, C A Banks, M D Lamontagne, I Thompson, 
G Petrin, P Goulet, B Wilcox, J Ballance
*Wolseley Industrial Products Group Inc, St Laurent, Quebec 
(Incorporated and operational in Canada)
P R Lachance, C A Banks, M D Lamontagne, R Malloy
US BUILDING MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION
USA
*Stock Building Supply Inc, Raleigh, North Carolina 27629
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America) 
F N Hord, C A Banks, G E Robinette, D W O’Halloran, W D Rose 78 Principal subsidiary undertakings and their directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Principal subsidiary undertakings 
and their directors continued
SERVICE COMPANIES
*Wolseley – Hughes Ltd
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom) 
*Wolseley Insurance Ltd
(Incorporated and operational in the Isle of Man) 
*Wolseley Investments Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the United States of America)
*Wolseley Holdings Canada Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in Canada)
Wolseley Overseas Ltd
(Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom)
*Wolseley Holdings (Ireland)
(Incorporated in the Republic of Ireland and operational 
in the United Kingdom) 
*Wolseley – Hughes Ireland
(Incorporated and operational in the Republic of Ireland) 
*DAB Investments Sarl
(Incorporated and operational in Luxembourg)
*DAB Investments 2 Sarl
(Incorporated and operational in Luxembourg)
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation. 
Shareholdings in companies marked * are held by intermediate
subsidiary undertakings. 
All shareholdings in the above subsidiary undertakings are of
ordinary shares or equity capital, plus the following preference
shares in the case of: 
Wolseley Insurance Ltd 100% 
Wolseley Investments Inc 100% 79 Acquisitions completed during the year Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Acquisitions completed during the year
Country of 
Name Date incorporation
Brooks Group UK Limited August 2002 UK
Chem Resist Group Limited August 2002 UK
Production Truss And Fabrication Corp. August 2002 USA
Climax Termomeccanica S.R.L. October 2002 Italy
Saris B.V. October 2002 Netherlands
Wimplex SA October 2002 France
Meridian Specialties Inc January 2003 Canada
SATGEM SAS January 2003 France
Triangle Supply Company, Inc. January 2003 USA
York International Corporation January 2003 USA
Wenco Distributors Of Texas (a division of Jeld-Wen, Inc.) January 2003 USA
Lygon Holdings Limited February 2003 UK
Canalisation Systèmes Services SA April 2003 France
Distritherm SA April 2003 France
Linwood Pipe And Supply Co., Inc. April 2003 USA
Hanco Plumbing Supply, Inc. April 2003 USA
Thomson Brothers Group Limited May 2003 UK
Bathstore.Com Limited June 2003 UK
A-1 Pipe, Inc. June 2003 USA
Delta Home Improvement Company (Marinette, Wisconsin location only) June 2003 USA
Huskey, Inc. June 2003 USA
Docks Havrais de la Couverture SA July 2003 France
Pinault Bois et Matériaux SA July 2003 France
Galley Matrix Limited July 2003 UK 80 Five year summary Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Five year summary
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover
European Distribution 2,956.7 2,517.5 2,371.4 2,196.4 1,952.8
North American Plumbing & Heating Distribution 3,551.5 3,592.4 3,000.5 2,551.2 2,142.6
US Building Materials Distribution 1,712.8 1,857.7 1,769.7 1,362.5 1,038.3
Manufacturing – – 53.3 293.3 371.3
8,221.0 7,967.6 7,194.9 6,403.4 5,505.0
Trading profit
European Distribution 193.2 171.4 158.2 145.3 109.3
North American Plumbing & Heating Distribution 202.2 200.7 155.5 135.9 113.6
US Building Materials Distribution 77.5 91.8 96.8 85.5 64.2
Manufacturing – – 3.7 19.0 31.5
472.9 463.9 414.2 385.7 318.6
Goodwill amortisation (29.9) (26.7) (17.8) (12.5) (5.5)
Operating profit 443.0 437.2 396.4 373.2 313.1
Exceptional loss on disposal of operations – –(70.0) (42.6) (3.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 443.0 437.2 326.4 330.6 310.0
Net interest (payable) (17.0) (26.5) (35.2) (28.3) (3.6)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 426.0 410.7 291.2 302.3 306.4
Current tax charge (118.0) (108.1) (102.8) (114.4) (107.7)
Deferred tax charge (9.6) (14.4) (3.3) (2.7) –
Exceptional tax credit – –– 6.0 0.7
Profit on ordinary activities after tax 298.4 288.2 185.1 191.2 199.4
Minority interests – –– (0.4) (0.5)
Profit accruing to ordinary capital 298.4 288.2 185.1 190.8 198.9
Ordinary dividends (123.1) (109.2) (97.4) (88.3) (78.9)
Net assets employed
Intangible fixed assets 686.8 502.7 474.3 277.0 179.0
Tangible fixed assets 716.8 582.1 592.5 531.6 417.0
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 1,197.3 1,060.7 1,123.3 970.4 810.6
2,600.9 2,145.5 2,190.1 1,779.0 1,406.6
Financed by
Share capital 145.2 144.5 144.1 143.7 143.5
Share premium 177.8 169.1 161.9 156.7 154.3
Profit and loss account 1,451.2 1,286.3 1,190.4 1,022.8 796.7
Shareholders’ funds 1,774.2 1,599.9 1,496.4 1,323.2 1,094.5
Interests of minority shareholders – –– 1.5 3.1
Net debt 826.7 545.6 693.7 454.3 309.0
Net assets employed 2,600.9 2,145.5 2,190.1 1,779.0 1,406.6
Cumulative goodwill written off 573.6 543.7 518.2 544.8 597.3
Gross capital employed 3,174.5 2,689.2 2,708.3 2,323.8 2,003.9 81 Five year summary Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Earnings per share before exceptionals and goodwill amortisation 56.69p 54.58p 47.43p 41.79p 38.08p
Basic earnings per share 51.53p 49.96p 32.17p 33.24p 34.69p
Dividends per share 21.20p 18.90p 16.90p 15.35p 13.75p
Cover for ordinary dividends before exceptionals 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6
Gearing ratio (note 1) 46.6% 34.1% 46.4% 34.3% 28.2%
Net tangible assets per ordinary share 187.26p 189.86p 177.36p 182.27p 160.03p
Return on gross capital employed (note 2) 16.7% 16.7% 16.5% 16.9% 17.0%
Average number of employees 39,299 37,136 34,734 33,385 28,582
Aggregate wages and salaries (£ million) 941.0 896.8 817.2 712.8 605.1
Number of shares in issue at year end (million) 580.7 577.9 576.3 574.8 574.0
Number of branches at year end
European Distribution 2,266 1,799 1,615 1,443 1,357
North American Plumbing & Heating Distribution 961 940 911 591 504
US Building Materials Distribution 222 216 220 210 131
Total branches 3,449 2,955 2,746 2,244 1,992
US dollar translation rate
Profit and loss 1.5951 1.4569 1.4464 1.5836 1.6360
Balance sheet 1.6076 1.5622 1.4252 1.4977 1.6200
Canadian dollar translation rate
Profit and loss 2.3835 2.2866 – – –
Balance sheet 2.2427 2.4749 – – –
Euro translation rate
Profit and loss 1.5039 1.6085 1.6299 1.6017 –
Balance sheet 1.4171 1.5934 1.6289 1.6163 –
French franc translation rate
Profit and loss – ––– 9.6942
Balance sheet – ––– 9.9287
Note 1. The gearing ratio is the ratio of net borrowings, excluding construction loan borrowings, to shareholders’ funds.
Note 2. Return on gross capital employed is the ratio of trading profit (before loss on disposal of operations and goodwill) to the aggregate of average shareholders’ funds, minority interests, net debt and 
cumulative goodwill written off. 82 Proforma information in United States dollars Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Proforma information in United States dollars
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
$m $m $m $m $m
Turnover
European Distribution 4,716.2 3,667.7 3,430.0 3,478.2 3,194.8
North American Plumbing & Heating Distribution 5,665.0 5,233.8 4,339.9 4,040.1 3,505.3
US Building Materials Distribution 2,732.1 2,706.5 2,559.7 2,157.7 1,698.7
Manufacturing – – 77.1 464.5 607.4
13,113.3 11,608.0 10,406.7 10,140.5 9,006.2
Trading profit
European Distribution 308.2 249.9 228.8 230.1 178.8
North American Plumbing & Heating Distribution 322.5 292.0 224.9 215.2 185.8
US Building Materials Distribution 123.6 133.7 140.0 135.4 105.0
Manufacturing – – 5.4 30.1 51.5
754.3 675.6 599.1 610.8 521.1
Goodwill amortisation (47.7) (38.9) (25.7) (19.8) (9.0)
Operating profit 706.6 636.7 573.4 591.0 512.1
Exceptional loss on disposal of operations – –(101.2) (67.5) (5.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 706.6 636.7 472.2 523.5 507.0
Net interest (payable) (27.1) (38.6) (50.9) (44.8) (5.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 679.5 598.1 421.3 478.7 501.1
Current tax charge (188.2) (157.5) (148.7) (181.2) (176.2)
Deferred tax charge (15.3) (20.5) (4.8) (4.3) –
Exceptional tax credit – –– 9.5 1.1
Profit on ordinary activities after tax 476.0 420.1 267.8 302.7 326.0
Minority interests – –– (0.6) (0.8)
Profit accruing to ordinary capital 476.0 420.1 267.8 302.1 325.2
Ordinary dividends (196.4) (159.1) (140.9) (139.8) (129.1)
Net assets employed
Intangible fixed assets 1,104.1 785.3 676.0 414.9 290.0
Tangible fixed assets 1,152.3 909.4 844.4 796.2 675.5
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 1,924.8 1,657.0 1,600.9 1,453.4 1,313.2
4,181.2 3,351.7 3,121.3 2,664.5 2,278.7
Financed by
Share capital 233.4 225.7 205.4 215.2 232.5
Share premium 285.8 264.2 230.7 234.7 250.0
Profit and loss account 2,332.9 2,009.5 1,696.6 1,531.8 1,290.7
Shareholders’ funds 2,852.1 2,499.4 2,132.7 1,981.7 1,773.2
Interests of minority shareholders – –– 2.2 5.0
Net debt 1,329.1 852.3 988.6 680.6 500.5
Net assets employed 4,181.2 3,351.7 3,121.3 2,664.5 2,278.7
Cumulative goodwill written off 922.1 849.4 738.5 815.9 967.6
Gross capital employed 5,103.3 4,201.1 3,859.8 3,480.4 3,246.3
The above information has been extracted from the five year summary on pages 80 and 81. Profit and loss figures have been translated using 
the relevant year’s profit and loss US dollar translation rate as set out on page 81. Balance sheet figures have been translated at the relevant
year’s balance sheet US dollar translation rate as set out on page 81. Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Group information 2003
83 Group information 2003
Head office and registered office
Parkview 1220 
Arlington Business Park 
Theale 
Reading RG7 4GA
Tel: +44 (0)118 929 8700 
Fax: +44 (0)118 929 8701
Website: www.wolseley.com 
Registration No. 29846 England
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Corporate brokers
UBS
Citigroup
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
Burges Salmon
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
UK Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars 
The Causeway 
Worthing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone within the UK: 0870 241 3934 
from overseas: +44 (0)121 415 7047
American Depository Receipts
The Bank of New York
Investor Relations
PO Box 11258 Church Street Station 
New York, NY 10286 – 1258
Telephone: within the US toll-free: 
1-800-BNY-ADRS 
from overseas: +1 610 312 5315 
NYSE specialist firm
Spear, Leeds & Kellogg
120 Broadway
6th Floor
New York, NY 10271 
Principal committees of the board
Audit committee
James I K Murray – Chairman
John M Allan 
Richard Ireland (until 13 December 2002)
Gareth Davis (from 1 July 2003)
John W Whybrow
Remuneration committee 
Robert M Walker
(Chairman from 13 December 2002)
John W Whybrow
(Chairman until 13 December 2002)
John M Allan 
Nominations committee
John W Whybrow – Chairman 
Charles A Banks
Robert M Walker
Treasury committee
(since 1 July 2003)
Stephen P Webster – Chairman
Charles A Banks
Michael J R Verrier 84 Shareholder information Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Shareholder information
Shareholders can register on-line to view their Wolseley plc shareholding details using Shareview, a service that has been launched by our
registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars. To access the service, you should log on to www.shareview.co.uk and complete the simple on-screen
registration process. You will then need to enter your surname, postcode, e-mail address and shareholder reference number (which is 
detailed on the form of proxy accompanying this report). 
By logging on to www.shareview.co.uk, you will be able to do all of the following at the click of a mouse:
> check your shareholding in Wolseley plc, 24 hours a day
>register your e-mail and mailing preference (post or electronic) for future shareholder mailings
> gain easy access to a variety of shareholder information including indicative valuations and payment instruction details
>use the Internet to appoint a proxy for you at general meetings of the shareholders
The Company can, at shareholders’ request, send shareholders an e-mail notification each time a new shareholder report or other shareholder
communication is put on the website. Shareholders will then be able to read and/or download the information at their leisure, but will still be
able to request paper copies of the documents should they so wish.
Share dealing
UK based shareholders are also now offered a simple and convenient telephone and Internet share sale service by our registrars. Shareview
dealing is available, for telephone sales on: 0870 850 0852 between 8:30am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales, log on 
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Existing and potential UK shareholders may also acquire shares in the Company through UK Individual Savings Accounts, which are managed
by ISA managers.
Stock Exchange listings
The ordinary shares of 25 pence each of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Ordinary shares of the Company are also
traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depository Shares and held in the form of American Depository Receipts
(“ADRs”). ADR holders receive the annual and interim reports issued to shareholders. The Company files a form 20-F each year with the 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Published information
Further copies of the annual report and, in due course, the 2003 20-F may be obtained from the Company Secretary at Wolseley plc, 
Parkview 1220, Arlington Business Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA. Company information may also be viewed on the Company’s website 
at www.wolseley.com.
Shareholder information Designed and produced by 35 London.
Main photography: Andy Wilson; board photography: Bill Robinson
Printed by Perivan White Dove, Leigh-on-Sea.
The paper used in this document is made from virgin wood fibre from 
sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Europe and 
North and South America. It contains up to 30% recycled mill broke and 
is fully biodegradable and recyclable. The mill where it is produced has 
both ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation. Wolseley plc
Parkview 1220
Arlington Business Park
Theale
Reading RG7 4GA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)118 929 8700
Fax: +44 (0)118 929 8701
Registration No. 29846 England
www.wolseley.com
