 Focusing on
what we do best
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 What you’ll ﬁ nd online
Every year, more and more information 
is available for our shareholders, 
employees and customers in the 
online version of Wolseley’s Annual 
Report. Publishing information in this 
way is also kinder to the environment. 
This year’s Report includes several 
interactive features:
Usability
The online version of Wolseley’s Annual 
Report is available on your computer 
or handheld at any time, allowing you 
to access information when you need 
it, wherever you are; making it more 
convenient than requesting a printed 
copy.
Accessibility
This Annual Report has been designed 
to be as accessible as possible and 
also to be compatible with the types 
of adaptive technology used by 
people with disabilities, including 
screen readers. 
Visitors to the website can control 
the size of the text and use “access 
keys” on the keyboard rather than the 
mouse to navigate through the pages.
Interactive content
This year’s Annual Report features links 
to an interview with Wolseley’s recently 
appointed Group Chief Executive 
Ian Meakins.
There is a wealth of other 
interactive features for shareholders 
on our main corporate website 
www.wolseley.com including 
share price information, charts and 
comparison tools, the opportunity to 
actively manage your shareholding, 
the ability to register your proxy 
appointments and the option to 
elect to receive all future shareholder 
communications electronically; there 
is also a simple and convenient 
telephone and internet share dealing 
service for UK-based shareholders.
Online annual report
2 Group at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
8 Group Chief Executive’s review
10 Our business
13 Key performance indicators
 North American operations
16 – North America plumbing and heating 
19 – Construction loans
 European operations
20 –  UK and Ireland
22 –  Nordic
24 –  France
26 –  Central and Eastern Europe
28 Discontinued operations
28 Future outlook
29 Risk management
34 Financial review
37 Other ﬁ nancial matters
39 Corporate responsibility
Directors’ report – Business review
50 Our Board
52 Corporate governance report
59 Other statutory information
62 Remuneration report
Directors’ report – Corporate governance
73 Index to ﬁ nancial statements
74 Group income statement
75  Group statement of recognised income 
and expense
76 Group balance sheet
77 Group cash ﬂ ow statement
78 Group accounting policies
84 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
129  Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Wolseley plc (in respect of consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements)
130 Company balance sheet
131 Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial statements
138  Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Wolseley plc (in respect of Company 
ﬁ nancial statements)
Financial statements
139 Five year summary
142   Pro forma information in United States dollars
144 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
 and their directors
146 Shareholder information
147 Group information
148 Forward-looking statement
Other information
http://annualreport2009.wolseleyplc.com Wolseley plc 1 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
A year of transition
In many ways the economic turmoil 
of the last 1 2 months has redrawn 
the map in terms of the future direction 
of Wolseley’s markets. In the face of these
challenging conditions, we have taken
ﬁ rm action to focus on our strengths, cut
costs, reduce debt and improve liquidity . 
In addition, we remain resolutely focused 
on positioning the business to fully 
capitalise on the recovery . Our business is divided into two geographical divisions: 
Europe, which covers business segments in the UK 
and Ireland, France, the Nordic region and Central and 
Eastern Europe; and North America, which consists of the 
North America plumbing and heating businesses namely 
Ferguson and Wolseley Canada. As at 31 July 2009 the 
Group had approximately 51,000 employees and operated 
in 27 countries.
North America plumbing and heating
Ferguson is the leading distributor of plumbing and 
heating supplies to professional contractors and the 
second largest distributor of pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings 
in the US. As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,228 
branches and 17,402 employees. Wolseley Canada is a 
signiﬁ cant player in wholesale distribution of plumbing, 
heating and ventilation products. As at 31 July 2009 the 
business had 225 branches and 2,487 employees.
UK and Ireland
Wolseley UK and Ireland is one of the leading 
distributors of heating and plumbing products to the 
professional market and a major supplier of building 
materials. As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,643 
branches and 11,673 employees in the UK and Ireland.
 Nordic region
DT Group is a leading distributor and retailer of building 
materials in the Nordic markets. Stark and Beijer are 
market leaders in Denmark and Sweden respectively, 
while Starkki is the second largest brand in Finland. 
As at 31 July 2009 the Nordic region had 296 branches 
and 6,749 employees.
France
Wolseley France is made up of Brossette, which is the 
second largest distributor of plumbing and heating 
equipment in France, and Réseau Pro, which is an 
integrated distributor of heavyside building materials in 
France. The business also has an active presence in 
the French timber and timber-derived products market. 
As at 31 July 2009 the business had 776 branches and 
9,053 employees.
Central and Eastern Europe
Central and Eastern Europe is made up of the plumbing 
and heating businesses located in Switzerland, Austria, 
the Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark. 
At 31 July 2009 the region had 226 branches and 
2,936 employees.
2 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business
Wolseley is the world’s largest specialist trade distributor 
of plumbing and heating products to professional 
contractors and a leading supplier of building materials 
to the professional market. Primarily we purchase pre-
assembled products such as plumbing supplies, heating 
and ventilation equipment, building materials, industrial 
pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings. These products are then 
delivered to our branches or our regional distribution 
centres for onward sale to customers against orders 
or over the counter. Goods are either collected by our 
customers or delivered to their site. 
Wolseley supplies a wide range of customers operating 
in different industry sectors that range from the individual 
plumber or builder through to national contractor chains 
and house builders, including large industrial and 
commercial organisations. Our primary customer focus is 
on professional contractors who work with households, 
governments, property developers and industrial buildings 
or in the repair and maintenance of existing premises.
Our focus
Group at a glance
Revenue split by region
North America
plumbing 
and heating
45%
Nordic region
14%
UK and 
Ireland
19%
France
15%
Central and
Eastern Europe
7%
£1 4 billion
Total Group Revenue The following strengths and key competitive advantages 
are common to our businesses:
Fundamentally attractive 
business sector
Whilst the construction industry operates in a cyclical 
manner correlating directly with economic output, we 
believe that the long-term drivers for house building and 
construction are positive in all of the regions in which 
Wolseley operates. Ageing populations, as well as an 
ageing housing stock, in Europe and North America 
indicate that demand for new housing and remodelling 
should remain strong over the long term.
Scale advantages
We believe that scale advantages such as the 
Group’s distribution network utilisation and sourcing 
activities are key competitive advantages and 
differentiators in the marketplace. Historically the Group 
has achieved higher returns where it has consolidated 
its position, built strong local brands and a critical mass 
which delivers signiﬁ cant cost and scale advantages. 
Strong local brands and knowledge
We have a track record of building strong trading 
brands in local markets. We believe that the skills 
and commitment of our employees are a signiﬁ cant 
competitive advantage. We believe that local knowledge 
of market dynamics and customer needs is essential, 
as is retaining and motivating strong and successful 
leadership teams who can drive the future growth 
of the business.
Strong business model
Over several years we have invested in large distribution 
centres, particularly in the US, which enable us to 
purchase in bulk from suppliers, to better serve 
customers by reducing delivery times, improving ﬁ ll 
rates and increasing the availability of products, and 
to manage inventory more efﬁ ciently. The distribution 
network also facilitates cost reduction in the supply 
chain, more efﬁ cient establishment of new branches 
and quicker integration of acquired companies.
Wolseley plc 3 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our strengths Our key achievements
Continuing to drive performance
In the year ended 31 July 2009, we have announced 
restructuring actions which are expected to deliver 
annualised beneﬁ ts of £431 million. We will continue to 
lower the cost base but without losing sight of the need 
to position Wolseley strongly for the upturn. Alongside 
proﬁ tability, the delivery of strong cash ﬂ ow is also 
important. Despite the signiﬁ cant reduction in trading 
proﬁ t this year due to market conditions operating 
cash ﬂ ow was down only 5 per cent at £1,200 million 
(2008: £1,262 million). In the year ended 31 July 2009 
challenging targets for working capital have been exceeded 
and across both continents actions have been taken to 
reduce capital expenditure and dispose of non-core assets 
and businesses.
Financial restructuring complete
In addition to the actions outlined above, in April 2009 
we successfully completed a £1 billion capital raising 
in the form of a share placing and rights issue. We also 
arranged a €1 billion multi-currency committed two-year 
forward start debt facility. This signiﬁ cantly extends our 
debt maturity proﬁ le and reduces any reﬁ nancing risk in the 
period to 1 August 2011, when the facility commences. 
Both the above actions have strengthened our capital base 
to create a more stable position from which we can take 
advantage of any recovery in our markets. 
Future focus on our core businesses
We believe that signiﬁ cant shareholder value can be 
generated through an even greater level of focus on 
the Group’s core businesses. During the year we have 
identiﬁ ed a future focus on North America plumbing 
and heating, UK and Ireland, France, Nordic and certain 
Central and Eastern Europe regions which present the best 
opportunities for return on investment in the longer term.
Exit of Stock Building Supply and strategic 
review of Central and Eastern Europe
In May 2009 we announced the exit from Stock Building 
Supply (“Stock”), our US building materials business. 
This business has been severely affected by the US 
housing downturn. The Group now owns a minority 
shareholding in Stock through a joint arrangement, 
with the majority holding owned by Gores Group LLC, 
an American private equity investor. This transaction 
gives our shareholders an opportunity to participate 
in the long-term value potential of the Stock business 
whilst ensuring deconsolidation of Stock’s operating 
losses and conserving cash.
Following a strategic review during the ﬁ nancial year 
of Central and Eastern Europe, Wolseley has determined 
to focus on those constituent countries where it has built 
sufﬁ cient scale, established leading market positions and 
can deliver an appropriate ﬁ nancial return. Accordingly, 
the Group has decided to retain a presence in Switzerland, 
Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Holland and Italy. 4 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
We enter 2010 after a year of profound
change and unprecedented challenges
in both our industry and our Company ,
but I am conﬁ dent the measures we have
taken to reposition Wolseley this year will
enable us to take maximum advantage
of the opportunities that will arise as the
global economy recovers.
Chairman’s statement
John W Whybrow Chairman Wolseley plc 5 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
 Group results
2009 has been an extraordinary year, by 
any measure, and we are experiencing 
the most severe global downturn since 
the 1930s. It was triggered by problems 
in the US housing market, which spread 
to the ﬁ nancial services industry and has 
now moved on to the broader economy. 
During the year the construction 
industry in North America and Europe 
that Wolseley serves has continued to 
be signiﬁ cantly adversely affected by 
these circumstances and consequently 
many of our businesses have dealt with 
peak to trough declines in activity levels 
which would not have been considered 
possible only 18 months ago.
The difﬁ cult operating environment is 
clearly reﬂ ected in the results for the 
year. Group revenue from continuing 
operations for the 12 months to 
31 July 2009 was down 2.5 per cent 
to £14.4 billion and earnings per share 
from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and amortisation and 
impairment of acquired intangibles was 
down 60.2 per cent to 95.6 pence. 
While our ﬁ nancial results reﬂ ect these 
macro-economic conditions and our 
exposure to them, management action 
this year has remained resolutely 
focused on the deployment of plans to 
deal with this severe market contraction. 
Particular focus has continued on 
restructuring actions to lower the 
cost base and driving strong cash 
generation. These actions are expected 
to reduce headcount by 9,848 and 
we have closed 653 underperforming 
branches through speciﬁ c restructuring 
programmes. These restructuring 
actions are expected to deliver 
annualised savings of over £431 million. 
Further considerable progress has 
been made in driving improvements 
in working capital which showed 
through in an excellent operating cash 
ﬂ ow performance of £1,200 million 
(2008: £1,262 million), which is only 
5 per cent below the prior year despite 
the signiﬁ cant reduction in trading proﬁ t. 
Challenging targets for working capital 
have been met and across both 
continents actions have been taken to 
reduce capital expenditure and dispose 
of non-core assets and businesses. 
Financial restructuring 
and capital raising
Despite the signiﬁ cant ongoing 
actions, the demands imposed by the 
operating environment and outlook 
for our industry also required that we 
reviewed more fundamentally how 
we run the business. In particular, it 
became apparent that action was 
required to strengthen Wolseley’s 
balance sheet and ensure that the 
Company maintained its focus and 
put its resources into our principal 
business activities. 
A comprehensive package of measures 
was announced with the accelerated 
Half Year Results in March which 
included a share placing and rights 
issue, which raised approximately 
£1 billion, and a €1 billion committed 
two-year forward start debt facility from 
1 August 2011. It was pleasing that the 
share issue was well subscribed with 
over 99 per cent of our shareholders 
voting to accept our proposals and over 
98 per cent of the rights offered being 
taken up.
Revenue £14.4bn
Trading proﬁ t
 1
  £44 7 m
Operating cash ﬂ ow £1 ,200m
Cash conversion
 2
  364 %
Operating loss £(606)m
Summary results (continuing operations)
1  Trading proﬁ t, a term used throughout the 
Annual Report, is deﬁ ned as operating proﬁ t 
before exceptional items and the amortisation 
and impairment of acquired intangibles. 
See note 12 of the consolidated ﬁ nancial 
statements for a reconciliation from operating 
proﬁ t to trading proﬁ t.
2  Cash conversion is the ratio of operating cash 
ﬂ ow to trading proﬁ t (including discontinued 
operations). 6 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The Board is conscious that the 
inevitable but regrettable consequence 
of the capital raising exercise has been 
the dilution of the interests of some 
existing shareholders. The Directors 
considered a range of alternative 
options to raising equity, including 
the negotiation of amendments to 
the ﬁ nancial covenants in the Group’s 
existing facilities and the possibility of 
further disposals of businesses. 
After careful consideration, the Board 
determined that the share issue was 
necessary and clearly provided the 
correct path to achieving ﬁ nancial 
stability for the Group within an 
appropriate time frame and in a 
manner that best preserved long-term 
shareholder value. As a consequence 
of the capital raising and a strong 
working capital performance for the 
year ended 31 July 2009 gearing was 
signiﬁ cantly lower at 28.4 per cent 
(2008: 73.5 per cent).
Aligning executive 
remuneration with 
shareholder interests
In recognition of the substantial 
decrease in proﬁ tability in 2009, the 
Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has been working to bring 
about fundamental change to the way 
remuneration works for our senior 
executives. These changes are outlined 
in the Remuneration report on page 62. 
Our approach has sought to balance 
the reality of our current level of ﬁ nancial 
performance with a need to offer a 
competitive remuneration package for 
individuals who are performing well 
and in a manner aligned with long-term 
shareholder interests.
In summary, at Board and Executive 
Committee level there will be no 
bonus payments for the year ended 
31 July 2009, no salary increase for the 
coming year and a reduction in long-
term incentive plan and share option 
awards. In addition, this year both 
Executive and Non Executive Directors 
will contribute between 10–15% of 
salary or fees to be used to invest in 
shares in the Company, thereby further 
reinforcing the relationship between 
Director and shareholder interests.
Focusing on our strengths
At the time of the capital raising, 
announced with the release of the 
Half Year Results, we also outlined 
a greater focus for the Group on the 
North America plumbing and heating, 
UK and Ireland, Nordic and French 
businesses. We strongly believe that 
signiﬁ cant shareholder value can be 
generated through an even greater level 
of focus on these core businesses, 
which we regard as presenting the 
best opportunities for growth and return 
on investment in the medium term. 
The Group historically has achieved 
higher returns where it has consolidated 
its market position, and developed 
strong local brands and a critical mass, 
which delivers signiﬁ cant cost and 
scale advantages. 
In March we also determined to exit 
Stock Building Supply (“Stock”), the 
Group’s US building materials business. 
The business was loss making 
and highly exposed to continuing 
deterioration in the US new residential 
construction market. In May we 
announced the disposal of the 
business and the formation of a joint 
arrangement with the Gores Group 
LLC. Going forward Wolseley has 
retained a minority holding in Stock, 
which will allow shareholders to beneﬁ t 
from any future market recovery in 
US housing, while deconsolidating its 
results from our ﬁ nancial statements 
and excluding these from our banking 
covenant commitments. We wish the 
business every success under Gores’ 
stewardship and continue to have an 
interest in its overall direction through 
Board representation.
In July we announced the outcome 
of the strategic review of those countries 
that comprise the Group’s Central and 
Eastern Europe activities. Our future 
focus in the region will be on those 
countries where we have built sufﬁ cient 
scale, established leading market 
positions and can deliver an appropriate 
ﬁ nancial return. Accordingly, we have 
determined to sell our businesses 
in Belgium, Slovakia and the Czech 
Republic. 
During the year we also disposed of 
MART, Wolseley’s Hungarian plumbing 
and heating business, and Wasco-
Anbuma, a carbon and stainless steel 
pipe business based in Belgium, to local 
management. 
Board changes
In June, Chip Hornsby stepped down 
as Group Chief Executive and the Board 
appointed Ian Meakins as his successor. 
In all, Chip spent over 31 years in our 
industry, joining Ferguson in 1978 and 
working his way up to take over as 
Chief Executive of that business in 
2001. He was appointed as Wolseley 
Group Chief Executive on 1 August 
2006 and led the drive to reduce costs 
and improve cash ﬂ ow in response 
to increasingly challenging trading 
conditions arising from the global 
ﬁ nancial crisis. I would like to take 
this opportunity to recognise Chip’s 
signiﬁ cant contribution to the Group in a 
long and distinguished career and wish 
him and his family well for the future. 
Ian Meakins started in his new role 
on 13 July and brings a wealth of 
operational experience in global 
business, having undertaken a number 
of leadership positions in brand, retail 
and wholesale distribution operations 
on an international scale. His track 
record on improvement of business 
performance is impressive and he is 
already making an impact in his ﬁ rst 
few weeks. Later on in this report, Ian 
will share some of his early thoughts 
with you about his intentions to keep 
the focus on operating performance 
given market conditions. In addition, 
he is already turning the organisation’s 
attention to further sharpening our 
strategy to ensure prioritising investment 
in Wolseley’s most attractive businesses.
Action has also been taken to 
strengthen the broad range of skills 
and senior experience of the Board. 
On 1 September, Alain Le Goff joined 
the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
Alain has signiﬁ cant international 
experience in logistics and cost 
reduction from the consumer products 
industry through his previous role at 
Reckitt Benckiser. 
Chairman’s statement continued Wolseley plc 7 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In October, Michael Wareing will also join 
the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
Michael was formerly International Chief 
Executive of KPMG and will assume the 
role of Chairman of the Audit Committee 
on 1 January 2010. Although Jim 
Murray will not be retiring from the 
Board until 2010, I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank him for his 
signiﬁ cant contribution over the last 
eight years, and in particular for his 
conscientious and constructive 
leadership of the Audit Committee. 
I should also comment on a Board 
review which we undertook during the 
year. This review, using an external 
facilitator, undertook an evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, that 
of its Committees and individual 
Directors. I am pleased to report that 
your Board was rated as being highly 
effective in comparison with other 
FTSE 100 companies regarding its 
engagement and contribution, and in 
its response to the economic situation. 
Equally, opportunities for continued 
development of the Board, being 
cognisant of the changing internal and 
external dynamics, were also identiﬁ ed. 
Dividends
It is not appropriate to pay any dividend 
on the ordinary shares in 2009. 
However, the Board is very mindful that 
dividends are an extremely important 
part of shareholder return and income. 
It is the Board’s intention over time 
to return to paying dividends, taking 
account of the Group’s capital position, 
retained earnings and prospects. 
I also recognise that the reduction in 
the Group’s value over the last year 
has caused considerable hardship and 
has demanded the actions we detail 
in this report. I would like to thank 
our shareholders and banks for their 
support and faith in what we are doing.
Summary
In summary, last year was undeniably 
difﬁ cult and a continuing weak 
economic environment means that 2010 
will present signiﬁ cant challenges in all 
of our markets. During the year I have 
spent a considerable amount of time 
working with executives, managers and 
employees throughout the organisation 
and I continue to be impressed by 
their professionalism, dedication, and 
application. I would like to thank all our 
employees who have worked extremely 
hard, often meeting very demanding 
deadlines with great enthusiasm. 
In the current operating environment, 
the path to recovery will be neither 
smooth nor straight. But we build on 
a number of strengths: strong core 
businesses with appropriate scale 
and leading market positions, talented 
people and, above all, thousands of 
loyal customers around the world who 
recognise the quality of service that we 
provide. By doing our best by them, in 
all of our enduring franchises around 
the world, we will take the actions 
that will deliver once again sustainable 
returns for our shareholders. I am 
conﬁ dent that through Ian’s leadership 
and the continued commitment and 
determination of our people, Wolseley 
will make rapid progress towards 
this objective.
John W Whybrow Chairman 8 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
T o be successful we must focus on 
enduring customer franchises, with top 
tier competitive positions where we 
choose to compete – we must also 
focus on where we can achieve the best 
ﬁ nancial returns. Equally , we need to have 
a clear understanding of the best way 
to develop our most attractive businesses 
to be even more successful in the future. 
Group Chief Executive’s review
Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc 9 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The road to proﬁ table growth
As this is my ﬁ rst review for Wolseley 
shareholders, I should open by saying 
how aware I am of the responsibility for 
leading this Company into better times.  
Wolseley has a great importance to 
thousands of customers, to many 
corporations worldwide, to our 
shareholders and to all those in the 
communities we serve. In common 
with many businesses, we are facing 
tough times and the downturn in our 
markets and the wider economies of 
the world shows little sign of abating.  
A key short-term priority will be to steer 
the business through this, to support 
our customers while working steadfastly 
to restore Wolseley to proﬁ table growth 
in the future. 
Over the past few weeks since joining 
Wolseley and visiting many of our 
operations, I have seen at ﬁ rst hand the 
inherent strengths of our businesses.  
We have leading market positions in 
many of the segments in which we 
operate, the quality and dedication to 
our customers of our front line people is 
impressive, and the business model is 
fundamentally sound. Wolseley operates 
in an attractive industry sector where 
the long-term drivers for construction 
materials distribution are positive in all 
the geographic regions where we 
operate. Ageing housing stock and 
demand for new housing and 
remodelling should remain strong over 
the long term and the vast majority of 
the businesses have excellent customer 
franchises and operate in highly 
fragmented markets. There is lots of 
growth and market share to go for.
However, the recession and its recent 
impact on Wolseley’s ﬁ nancial results 
highlight the cyclicality of the business. 
While a downturn was anticipated, 
no one could have foretold the 
unprecedented market disruption and 
global economic downturn of the last 
12 months. With roots in economic 
imbalances across many countries, 
the downturn has weakened many and 
the path to recovery is far from certain. 
In a number of ways the recent 
economic turmoil has redrawn the 
map in terms of future trajectories 
of our markets and consequently will 
require Wolseley to adapt to these harsh 
new conditions.
Continuing to drive 
performance
With this call to action as a backdrop, 
in the current environment we will 
remain focused on driving operational 
performance. We will continue to lower 
the cost base, but without losing sight 
of the need to position Wolseley strongly 
for the upturn. We will do this prudently 
and according to the markets we serve. 
At the same time we will sustain our 
businesses that continue to operate 
through unprecedented pressures, 
challenges and change. What the last 
12 months has shown is that actual 
conditions have proven to be far worse 
than anyone expected, so we cannot be 
complacent about what the coming 
months might bring. 
Alongside proﬁ tability, the delivery of 
strong cash ﬂ ow is also extremely 
important. Our aim will be to deliver this 
through revenue growth and operating 
efﬁ ciency, supported by disciplined use 
of capital expenditure and working 
capital. The delivery of strong cash 
ﬂ ow provides us with the opportunity 
to reinvest that cash to grow the 
business and to reward shareholders. 
It is encouraging that during 2009 
challenging targets for working capital 
have been exceeded and across both 
continents actions have been taken 
to reduce capital expenditure and 
dispose of non-core assets and 
businesses. We will continue to keep 
the organisation focused on driving 
sustained working capital improvements 
and keeping up the momentum.
Finally, we will continue to place a 
huge degree of emphasis on improving 
customer service at the local level so 
we beat the competition where it counts 
– at the front line. Very often Wolseley’s 
businesses compete close to where 
our customers operate their businesses. 
This makes it particularly important that 
we are better than the competition, 
especially in terms of product availability, 
competitive pricing, advice, correct 
billing and collections, as well as on-time 
in full delivery. To achieve this we need 
motivated and skilled people at the front 
line, supported by accountable local 
management. I passionately believe that 
excellent customer service is the heart 
of every successful business and an 
area where we can always improve.
Prioritising future investment
While managing short-term performance 
remains critical, we must also prepare 
the Company for when our markets 
recover. The geographic markets 
which Wolseley operates in, whilst 
vast in terms of overall size, are also 
fragmented. What is more, each 
business has different characteristics 
in terms of mix of new residential 
construction and repairs, maintenance 
and improvement business, the degree 
of supplier or customer consolidation, 
the customer mix and product mix – all 
therefore have different gross margins 
and returns on capital. 
In the current market conditions we 
have to be far more rigorous in where 
we choose to compete and win as well 
as make sure that the businesses are 
capable of the best performance and 
get the resources needed. To be 
successful we must focus on enduring 
customer franchises, with top tier 
competitive positions where we choose 
to compete – we must also focus on 
where we can achieve the best ﬁ nancial 
returns. Equally, we need to have a 
clear understanding of the best way to 
develop our most attractive businesses 
to be even more successful in the 
future. Consequently, to identify and 
prioritise where and how we want to 
win, I have recently initiated a review 
to assess Wolseley’s portfolio in each 
geography and we will share the 
outcomes with shareholders later 
in the ﬁ nancial year.  
In management style we want to be 
purposeful, to “make it happen” for 
our customers and then for our 
shareholders. We will anchor our efforts 
in securing a strategic understanding of 
the businesses, focusing on long-term, 
high quality proﬁ tability and delivering 
customer satisfaction. In doing this we 
will ensure that when the markets turn 
and we get back to growth, we will 
do so by developing and building on 
Wolseley’s strengths and the most 
attractive businesses to get the best 
returns for our shareholders. 
Despite the challenging outlook, our 
businesses all around the world are 
inherently sound and fully engaged in 
sustaining as robust a performance 
as the environment permits. And the 
restructuring we have embarked on will 
continue to see high levels of activity 
designed to reposition Wolseley 
successfully. My special thanks go to 
all my colleagues around the world 
serving our customers every day, 
and I look forward to working with 
them in redoubling our efforts to move 
Wolseley forward again and delivering 
proﬁ table growth.
Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive 10 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business
The Wolseley Group is the world’s 
largest specialist trade distributor of
heating and plumbing products to
professional contractors and a leading
supplier of building materials to the
professional market. The Group is an
international business, operating 4,394
branches in 27 countries and employing 
approximately 5 1 ,000 people.
Stephen P Webster Chief Financial Officer Wolseley plc 11 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Activities
Wolseley plc is the parent company 
of the Group and its business falls into 
two geographic divisions – Europe 
and North America. Throughout the year 
ended 31 July 2009, Europe has been 
managed through four business 
segments: the UK and Ireland, France, 
the Nordic region and Central and 
Eastern Europe. North America has 
been managed as a single business.
The business model is essentially 
simple. Products are sourced directly 
from suppliers or through agents and 
delivered to distribution centres and 
branches. Sales to customers can be 
made over the counter at our branches, 
through orders dealt with by branches, 
through call centres or over the internet, 
or through supply contracts which are 
managed centrally. Products are either 
delivered direct to our customers or 
collected from our branches.
Suppliers
The Group has over 100,000 trade 
suppliers in total and its larger key 
suppliers are manufacturers with 
market-leading brands, usually 
international in operations but focused 
on the needs of local markets, and 
delivering quality products, which 
we strive to ensure are ethically and 
environmentally sound. The Group 
continues to work with low-cost, 
high-quality manufacturers to supply 
our private label (own brand) 
product ranges.
Wolseley’ s products
 Plumbing, heating and 
air conditioning
3 Baths, showers and accessories
3 Sanitaryware
3 Brassware
3 Bathroom furniture
3 Boilers and burners
3 Radiators and valves
3 Hot water cylinders and ﬂ ues
3 Control equipment
3  Ventilation and air conditioning 
equipment
3 Heat pumps and solar equipment
3 Plastic pipes and ﬁ ttings
3 Copper tubing and ﬁ ttings
Building materials
3 Insulation
3 Plaster and plasterboard
3 Rooﬁ ng materials
3 Bricks, blocks and aggregates
3 Tiles and ﬂ ooring
3 Timber products
3 Doors and frames
3 Glass
3 Beams, trusses and frames
3 Hardware and tools
3 Cement
Civils/waterworks, industrial and 
commercial
3  Drainage pipes, associated supplies 
and covers
3 Underground pressure pipes
3  Small bore pressure pipes and 
ﬁ ttings
3  Carbon and stainless steel pipes, 
valves and ﬁ ttings
3 Other pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings
Electrical
3 Cables and cabling accessories
3 Controls and switchgear
3 Wiring accessories
3 Lighting
3 Data networking supplies
3 Cable management
Services
3 Management of customer inventory
3 Hire of equipment and tools
3 Installation of cabinets and ﬁ replaces
3 Pipe fabrication and valve actuation
3 Bathroom layout and design
3  Secured lending in the US to 
house builders
3 Maintenance contracts
 The Group supplies materials used in the construction industry. The range of 
products used in construction is broad and the Group continually seeks 
opportunities to widen that choice for its customers. The main product 
categories supplied to customers are set out in the following list: 12 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business continued
Customers
The Group has a wide range of 
customers operating in different industry 
sectors that range from the individual 
plumber or builder through to national 
contractor chains and house builders 
and include large industrial and 
commercial organisations, including 
prominent Fortune 500 companies. 
Wolseley’s primary customer focus 
is on professional contractors. These 
contractors work with households, 
governments, property developers 
and industrial companies in the 
construction of new homes, ofﬁ ces 
and industrial buildings or in the repair 
and maintenance of existing premises.
Market drivers
During the 2007/8 ﬁ nancial year, the 
North American markets experienced a 
reduction in demand, due to restrictions 
on credit availability, falling house prices 
and low consumer conﬁ dence, in 
combination with a relatively high supply 
of newly built or repossessed housing 
stock. During 2008/9, these markets 
have continued to decline and European 
markets also started to contract rapidly. 
Following the global ﬁ nancial crisis 
which commenced in September 2008, 
commercial credit as well as consumer 
credit was restricted. Most countries in 
which the Group has a presence fell 
into recession and rising unemployment 
eroded consumer conﬁ dence. 
The governments of most advanced 
economies have responded to the 
liquidity shortage and economic 
recession with a variety of programmes 
to support commercial lending, reduce 
interest rates and stimulate demand, 
in some cases with investments in 
infrastructure and low-cost or social 
housing that increase demand for the 
Group’s products. Some statistics 
indicate that GDP may now have 
stopped shrinking in a number of those 
countries that have experienced a 
macro-economic recession, but there 
are few indications that the construction 
markets are yet returning to growth.
In the longer term, the changing 
demographics of the European and 
North American markets, with a 
generally ageing population and 
increasing immigration, should support 
demand for new housing at relatively 
high levels. As the housing stock ages, 
it will increase demand in the repair 
and remodelling sector. Activity in 
the commercial and industrial sector 
varies according to the level of business 
investment, government spending, 
commercial property yields and ﬁ nance 
available to fund large projects. 
While the Group does not operate in 
a regulated industry, the performance 
of the Group can be affected by 
government legislation. The key 
regulatory inﬂ uences centre on 
environmental legislation and 
stipulations imposed when building 
or remodelling buildings. Such changes 
in legislation present an opportunity 
for growth, in response to increasing 
demand as customers or end-users 
respond by changing their buying 
habits. For example, the UK business 
has a Sustainable Building Center to 
demonstrate energy efﬁ cient products 
increasingly required by regulation and 
in response to increased environmental 
awareness of customers.
Competitive environment
The Group aims to be a leading 
distributor in each of the markets 
in which it operates, the majority 
of which are fragmented. 
The Group competes on the basis of 
availability of materials and supplies, 
breadth of product range, pricing of 
products, customer service, provision 
of credit, technical product and local 
market knowledge with respect to 
application and usage, and also offers 
advisory and other service capabilities.
The Group’s competition varies by 
product line, type of customer and 
geographic market; competing with 
many local, regional, and, in some 
markets and product categories, other 
national distributors including specialist 
subsidiaries of large home centre chains 
and product manufacturers. To a much 
more limited extent, it also competes 
with the large home centre chains, such 
as The Home Depot and Lowe’s in the 
US and B&Q in the UK, for business 
from professional contractors as well as 
with product manufacturers.
Performance monitoring
The Group plans, monitors and reviews 
the activities of its businesses principally 
through the ﬁ nancial reporting process. 
A strategic plan is produced annually by 
all businesses which sets out business 
plans and resource requirements for 
the next three years. On this basis a 
detailed budget is prepared for the 
following ﬁ nancial year, which is central 
to the target setting process. The form 
and components of the budget are, in 
general, cascaded down to branch level 
within the businesses. Each month, the 
businesses submit their results, which 
also include a forecast for the remainder 
of the ﬁ nancial year. Performance 
against both budget and prior month 
forecast is reviewed with the businesses 
by continental and Group management. 
With the beneﬁ t of such information, 
corrective actions or additional resource 
deployments are discussed.
A Building contractors 27%
B Plumbing and heating engineers 23%
C Industrial 13%
D End users 12%
E Mechanical contractors 9%
F Utilities 8%
G Heating, ventilation and air conditioning 6%
H Electrical contractors 2%
 
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
Customer mix % Wolseley plc 13 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Review of performance Key performance indicator and deﬁ nition
 Change in like-for-like 
revenue 
The total increase or decrease in revenue for 
the year, excluding the effect of currency 
exchange, sales days, new acquisitions, branch 
openings or branch closures in the year, and 
the incremental effect of acquisitions, branch 
openings and branch closures in the prior year. 
The Group expects changes in like-for-like 
revenue in each of its markets to exceed changes 
in the overall level of economic activity in those 
markets.
 Change in organic revenue
The increase or decrease in like-for-like revenue 
and in revenue derived from branch openings or 
closure in the year and the incremental effect of 
branch openings and closures in the prior year. 
In the past, the Group has sought to achieve, 
on average, double-digit growth in revenue both 
through organic growth and through acquisitions. 
Over the economic cycle the Group has seen 
growth come broadly evenly from both sources. 
The impact of the current severe downturn on the 
Group’s markets is currently being assessed and 
it may be appropriate to revise the growth target. 
It is likely that acquisitions will constitute a smaller 
percentage of the Group’s revenue in the future.
T rading margin
The ratio of trading proﬁ t to revenue expressed 
as a percentage. Over the cycle, the Group 
seeks to achieve a growth in trading proﬁ t higher 
than the growth in revenue through year-on-year 
improvements in trading margin as a result of 
continuous improvement in operations and the 
beneﬁ ts of its international scale and leverage.
2007 2008 2009
+5.1
–2.3 –13.9
Change in like-for-like revenue %
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
+11.8
+12.8
+6.8
–1.2
–16.4
Change in organic revenue %
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
6.4
6.1
6.0
5.3
3.1
Trading margin %
Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)
The Group has used the following indicators of performance to assess its development against its strategy and ﬁ nancial 
objectives during the year ended 31 July 2009. Growth in like-for-like revenue and cash-to-cash days are KPIs which have 
been given prominence in the last two years because of the more difﬁ cult markets within which the Group was operating, 
therefore the Group does not have the historical information to give a ﬁ ve-year record for these measures. Trading margin 
and return on gross capital employed are both based on trading proﬁ t, which excludes exceptional items.
Previous years have been restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Performance table
 Group like-for-like revenue reduced by 13.9 per 
cent during the year, compared to a reduction of 
2.3 per cent in the previous year. The sharpest 
reductions were in the Nordic region, by 17.9 per 
cent, and in the United States by 16.4 per cent. 
The contraction in Canada was 3.4 per cent and 
in Central and Eastern Europe 5.4 per cent.
Group organic revenue reduced by 16.4 per 
cent during the year with the net branch closures 
reducing revenue by a further 2.1 per cent in 
addition to the reduction in like-for-like revenue.
Group trading margin overall fell from 5.3 per 
cent to 3.1 per cent. The sharpest falls were 
in the UK and Ireland, from 5.5 per cent to 
2.0 per cent, and France from 4.9 per cent to 
1.5 per cent. Central and Eastern Europe broke 
even again. The US plumbing and heating 
business segment contributed 5.4 per cent 
compared to 7.1 per cent the previous year 
and the Nordic cluster delivered 4.6 per cent 
compared to 6.9 per cent the previous year. 14 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business continued
Cash ﬂ ow performance
The Group monitors cash-to-cash days, which 
are deﬁ ned as the average number of days from 
payment for items of inventory to receipt of cash 
from customers. The Group also monitors the 
cash conversion ratio, which is operating cash 
ﬂ ow divided by trading proﬁ t. 
Free cash ﬂ ow
Free cash ﬂ ow represents cash ﬂ ow from 
operating activities less maintenance capital 
expenditure, tax, dividends and interest. 
The Group seeks to generate sufﬁ cient free 
cash ﬂ ow over the business cycle to fund 
normal bolt-on acquisitions and expansion 
capital expenditure.
Return on gross capital 
employed
The ratio of trading proﬁ t to the aggregate of the 
monthly average of shareholders’ funds, minority 
interests, net debt and cumulative goodwill and 
acquired intangibles written off. The Group has 
previously targeted to deliver an incremental 
return on gross capital employed at least 4 per 
cent in excess of the pre-tax weighted average 
cost of capital. A major driver of decisions relating 
to acquisitions and capital expenditure has been 
the incremental return on capital generated 
by those investments. The Group is currently 
assessing whether this return on capital target 
continues to be appropriate.
2006 2007 2008 2009
66
52
44
28
Cash-to-cash days  
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
321
285
626
571
851
Free cash flow £m
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
19.2
18.3
15.2
12.7
6.9
Return on gross capital employed %
Review of performance Key performance indicator and deﬁ nition Performance table
Cash-to-cash days, measured with spot 
exchange rates, was 28 at 31 July 2009, 
compared to 44 at 31 July 2008. The reduction 
reﬂ ected improved working capital management.
Cash conversion was 364 per cent, compared to 
185 per cent in the prior year.
Free cash ﬂ ow increased by £280 million from 
£571 million in 2008 to £851 million in 2009, 
despite a reduction of £340 million in trading 
proﬁ t, as a result of a reduction of £846 million 
in working capital.
Return on gross capital employed decreased 
from 12.7 per cent to 6.9 per cent reﬂ ecting the 
reduced trading margins in all the Group’s 
businesses and the increased level of capital 
employed after the rights issue. This return was 
below the Group’s estimated pre-tax weighted 
average cost of capital of 9.7 per cent. Wolseley plc 15 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Other performance 
indicators
The Group also uses a variety of other 
ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial measures to 
monitor performance against the targets 
and objectives set by the Board.
Human resources
The safety of Wolseley’s people is 
regarded as paramount and lost time 
incident rates are monitored closely in 
each of the major businesses.
Wolseley’s staff provide key competitive 
advantages, as customer relationships 
are maintained by branch personnel 
or members of the sales force. 
Staff turnover rates are considered an 
important indicator and are reviewed 
regularly. The overall turnover rate for 
2009 of 26 per cent (2008: 31 per cent) 
and the 2009 turnover rate of 16 per 
cent at management level (2008: 17 per 
cent), reﬂ ect the extensive restructuring 
carried out during the year, which has 
resulted in business disposals, branch 
closures and reductions in stafﬁ ng levels 
both at remaining branches and in 
management. Further staff reduction 
measures may be required in 2009/10.
Restructuring costs and beneﬁ ts
Since the downturn spread from the US 
residential market in the second half of 
2008 and began affecting the remainder 
of the Group’s markets, management 
has implemented an aggressive 
restructuring programme across the 
Group’s businesses to preserve cash 
and reduce costs. Between 31 July 
2007 and 31 July 2009 the Group 
closed or disposed of 902 branches, 
disposed of six non-core businesses, 
reduced headcount by 28,000 and 
took measures to preserve cash, 
such as suspending the payment 
of dividends and reducing planned 
capital expenditure. In relation to the 
restructuring of continuing operations, 
the Group has recorded exceptional 
charges of £70 million in the year ended 
31 July 2008 and £346 million in the 
year ended 31 July 2009.
Cost-beneﬁ t analyses of each 
restructuring action are prepared locally 
and submitted to the Group head ofﬁ ce 
for review and challenge. If actions 
are approved, each business reports 
monthly on the costs incurred and the 
beneﬁ ts realised to date and forecast 
to be realised in the current and 
subsequent ﬁ nancial year.
Supply chain
There are diverse supply chain 
initiatives around the Group; their 
performance is monitored by both 
ﬁ nancial measures, such as annualised 
savings in transportation costs, and also 
by non-ﬁ nancial measures, such as 
inventory turns and, for the Group’s 
network of distribution centres (“DCs”), 
the ﬁ ll rate achieved, which is the 
proportion of orders that can be fulﬁ lled 
from inventory on hand at the time of 
the order.
Sourcing
The Group has ﬁ nancial measures for 
the progress of its global sourcing 
programmes. These are primarily 
annual targets for the margin beneﬁ t 
from new supplier rebate agreements 
and improvements to existing rebate 
schemes. The Group also measures 
the impact on cash ﬂ ow, such as 
through improved payment terms.
Environmental
The Group’s approach to environmental 
measures is set out in the Corporate 
responsibility report on pages 39 to 49. 
In accordance with the reporting 
guidelines suggested by the UK 
Government’s Department for 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 
the Group has tracked performance 
applying a range of environmental 
measures, including those relating 
to carbon dioxide emissions, waste 
management and water use which 
are disclosed in the Corporate 
responsibility report on page 45.
Private label
Most of the Group’s businesses aim 
to increase the proportion of sales 
of private label products, as these 
generally command higher margins. 
Overall the percentage of the Group’s 
revenue attributable to private label 
products has increased from 6.0 per 
cent in 2007 to 7.7 per cent in 2009, 
and initiatives to increase this further 
are tailored to the opportunities and 
circumstances of each business.
Business Change Programme
The Group’s Business Change 
Programme has a range of objectives, 
including increasing productivity, 
enhancing margins and driving like-for-
like sales growth. Another objective 
is to improve the resilience and security 
of the Group’s information technology 
infrastructure while reducing its 
operating cost. In advance of the 
large-scale deployment of new 
applications, the Group’s Global Service 
Delivery IT organisation has begun 
operating, and has taken responsibility 
for supporting and maintaining networks 
and legacy business applications in a 
number of regions. The organisation 
has service level agreements with each 
operating company it supports and 
reports its performance against these 
agreements monthly to the IT Executive. 
The key measures are the percentage 
of time for which systems are available, 
the number of service calls created, 
closed and outstanding for each service 
desk, and the number and percentage 
of identiﬁ ed vulnerabilities that have 
been cleared. 16 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business proﬁ le
The Group’s North American plumbing 
and heating businesses are Ferguson in 
the United States and Wolseley Canada.
Ferguson is the largest wholesale 
distributor of plumbing supplies, pipes, 
valves and ﬁ ttings in the USA and a 
major distributor of heating, ventilation 
and air conditioning systems. Ferguson 
is managed through ﬁ ve business 
groups: Residential Plumbing, Heating 
Ventilation and Air Conditioning 
(“HVAC”), Waterworks, Commercial 
Plumbing and Industrial. A number of 
brands other than Ferguson have been 
retained for servicing speciﬁ c markets. 
Ferguson has eight distribution centres, 
three pipeyards and 1,228 branches 
(2008: 1,382 branches).
Wolseley Canada is the domestic 
market leader in the wholesale 
distribution of plumbing, heating and 
ventilation products with 225 branches 
(2008: 254 branches).
Market opportunities
The North American market for 
plumbing, heating and air conditioning 
products is substantial. Management 
has estimated the combined 
addressable US and Canadian 
markets to be worth over $200 billion 
in calendar year 2008. 
In the US, Wolseley is exposed to 
three components of the market 
which manifest different cycles: new 
residential, repair, maintenance and 
improvement (“RMI”), and commercial 
and industrial. The new residential 
market has contracted sharply as 
housing starts have declined from an 
annualised 924,000 in July 2008 to an 
annualised 560,000 in July 2009, a 
reduction of 39 per cent year-on-year; 
although the July 2009 ﬁ gure reﬂ ects 
a recovery from a low point of 498,000 
in April 2009. The RMI market is, 
in general, less cyclical as consumers 
who are unable or unwilling to relocate 
at current market prices are likely to 
compensate by increasing expenditure 
on home improvements. The estimates 
and forecasts from Harvard Joint Centre 
show annualised home improvements 
expenditure reducing from $126 billion 
in Q2 of calendar 2008 to $112 billion 
in Q2 of calendar 2009, a reduction 
of 11 per cent. The commercial and 
industrial sector has longer lead times 
than the consumer-driven sectors, as 
there can be an interval of two or more 
years from the commitment of funding 
to completion of a project. Levels of 
activity started to decline from those of 
the previous year in the second quarter 
of the ﬁ nancial year and this decline 
has accelerated in the second half 
of the year.
The US government has taken 
measures to support the availability 
of credit and stimulate demand in the 
overall economy, including making funds 
available to subsidise ﬁ rst-time buyers, 
to make houses more energy-efﬁ cient 
and to modernise and repair schools, 
which should support demand for the 
Group’s product range. 
North American operations –  North America plumbing and heating
Performance
  % of 
Group 
Revenue £6,520m 45%
Trading proﬁ t  £349m 69%
$m
  Revenue
  Trading profit
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
8,091
10,806
12,285
12,594
10,242
547
755
882 873
530
Business strengths
 Strong brand and market position
3  Leading distributor of plumbing 
and heating in North America
3  Continuing strong performance
Signiﬁ cant market opportunities
3  US economy expected to be the 
ﬁ rst to recover
3  Increasing signs of competitor 
distress
3  Wolseley Canada managed 
by Ferguson
Strong business model
3  Large scale distribution centre 
model and branch network
3  Highly trained employees with 
extensive local knowledge
3  Operating cash ﬂ ow of $1.4 billion 
over the last 12 months
Ferguson is a distributor of plumbing 
supplies, valves and ﬁ ttings, heating 
and cooling equipment, waterworks, 
tools, safety equipment and ﬁ re 
protection products. Ferguson 
operates across 50 US States, the 
District of Columbia, and in Puerto 
Rico, the Caribbean and Mexico.
Wolseley Canada is a wholesale 
distributor of plumbing, heating and 
ventilation equipment and is located 
in all ten provinces of Canada.
Key brands
1,453
Number of branches
19,889
Number of employees
Scale Wolseley plc 17 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Strong business model
Wolseley’s Industrial Products 
Group (“WIPG”), Meridian and 
Ferguson Integrated Services 
(“FIS”) are working together 
to supply an international 
power generation company. 
FIS, a maintenance repairs and 
operations integrator, now provides 
the procurement umbrella under 
which both Meridian and WIPG 
supply product to the end user.  
The result is a signiﬁ cant three 
year agreement to supply pipes, 
valves, ﬁ ttings, maintenance, repair 
and overhaul supplies across 
North America. The contract 
gives Wolseley the opportunity 
to leverage existing infrastructure 
and core capabilities of individual 
businesses and at the same time 
provide substantial value to the end 
user that is not available elsewhere 
in the marketplace.
The Canadian economy has been less 
affected by the ﬁ nancial crisis than that 
of most developed countries, primarily 
due to the underpinning provided by 
commodity prices and the relative 
strength of its banking system. 
The downturn has, however, been 
concentrated in the residential new 
construction market, which provides 
about a third of Wolseley Canada’s 
revenue and where housing starts 
are forecast to fall by 33 per cent to 
140,000 in calendar year 2009 from 
210,000 in calendar year 2008. 
In the longer term, demographic trends 
in North America suggest high rates 
of home ownership and residential 
construction in the future, as the 
so-called “echo boomers”, children 
of the “baby boom” generation, are 
now entering the peak home buying 
and renting ages, and as rates of 
immigration continue to be high and 
foreign-born populations increasingly 
move to home ownership.
Despite some consolidation in recent 
years, as some of the major retailers 
have diversiﬁ ed into plumbing and 
heating equipment, the market is highly 
fragmented, with an estimated 95 per 
cent of distribution operations 
employing fewer than 100 people. 
The current economic conditions favour 
the stronger and better capitalised 
distributors and management consider 
that the North America business has 
gained market share over the last year.
Strengths and strategy
Ferguson’s business is the strongest in 
the Group’s portfolio, as a result of its 
market leadership, its unique distribution 
network based around the DCs, the 
buying power it derives from scale, the 
wide range of business cycles to which 
it is exposed through its range of 
customers and markets, and its proven 
ability to react quickly to the market. 
The Canadian business is the domestic 
market leader, with an extensive branch 
network and a broad product range.
In the short term, Ferguson will continue 
to take action to protect its margins 
and maintain discipline on costs and 
working capital, while continuing 
to take market share from distressed 
competitors. Speciﬁ c areas of 
focus will be the development and 
marketing of private label products, 
the remerchandising of counters 
and build-up of showroom visitors, 
expanding e-commerce and further 
exploiting business intelligence systems 
to manage the gross margin matrix. 
As the cycle turns, funds will be made 
available both for organic growth 
through new branches in the markets 
with the best opportunities and for 
bolt-on acquisitions, which have 
historically been successful for the 
business. The Group will keep the 
possibility of strategic acquisitions 
under constant review, but will only 
enter into negotiations if the business ﬁ t 
is compelling and prices are attractive.
Performance
Local currency revenue in the US 
plumbing and heating operations was 
down by 18.6 per cent to $9,143 million 
(2008: $11,226 million) with organic 
revenue down 18.7 per cent. 
Underlying trading proﬁ t, excluding 
property proﬁ ts, was down by 40 per 
cent to $479 million (2008: $794 million). 
Despite the challenging conditions and 
commodity price deﬂ ation of $34 million 
(£22 million), the gross margin was only 
30 basis points down on the prior year, 
reﬂ ecting the continued focus on 
changes in the business mix towards 
higher margin business generated from 
showrooms, counter sales and private 
label products. The underlying trading 
margin was lower at 5.2 per cent 
(2008: 7.1 per cent).  18 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
North American operations –  North America plumbing and heating continued
Scale advantages
Ferguson’s Baltimore branch recently 
won a contract to provide materials 
for the Johns Hopkins Hospital in 
Baltimore which has embarked on a 
$1.2 billion, 10-year redevelopment 
plan that calls for two new clinical 
buildings. The Johns Hopkins project 
is one of the largest-ever healthcare 
projects in the US. Ferguson is 
supplying all of the plumbing ﬁ xtures, 
pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings to the project’s 
mechanical contractors, Poole & Kent 
Corporation of Baltimore. Poole & Kent 
Corporation selected Ferguson for the 
job because of their ﬁ nancial strength 
and service capability. Logistics played 
a big part as material prices were 
escalating at the time the contract was 
awarded and the customer needed to 
control costs on behalf of their client. 
This contract win demonstrates 
Ferguson’s buying strength and 
excellent logistical ability through its 
distribution network. Wolseley plc 19 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In response to the slowing markets, 
Ferguson reduced its headcount by 
3,840. These reductions equate to 
around 18 per cent of its total employees 
and along with other cost saving 
initiatives will give rise to estimated 
annualised savings of $258 million. 
This brings the cumulative headcount 
reduction in Ferguson to around 25 per 
cent of its employees over the two years 
ended 31 July 2009.
Cash ﬂ ow performance was strong 
with a continued improvement in 
cash-to-cash days with further 
progress in inventory, demonstrating 
the beneﬁ ts of the DC network, and 
collections of receivables. 
Ferguson’s overall branch numbers 
reduced by 154 to 1,228 locations 
(2008: 1,382). 
In Canada, market activity remained 
strong in the early part of the year before 
falling away sharply in December 2008. 
In July 2009, housing starts had fallen 
to an annualised rate of 132,000, with 
declines evident across all regions. 
Global economic uncertainty and, in 
particular, expected reduced demand 
for natural resources and commodities 
continue to inhibit levels of activity. 
Against this background, Wolseley 
Canada continued to outperform 
the market. Local currency revenue 
decreased by 6 per cent to C$1,293 
million (2008: C$1,376 million) including 
a 6 per cent organic revenue decline. 
Gross margins were lower, although 
the trend improved in the second half of 
the ﬁ nancial year, and trading proﬁ t was 
25.6 per cent lower at C$59 million 
(2008: C$79 million). On 1 April 2009, 
responsibility for the management of the 
Industrial Products Group (“IPG”) was 
transferred to Ferguson. Excluding the 
IPG business, the revenue decline in the 
year was 3.4 per cent.
In response to the slowing markets, 
Wolseley Canada reduced its 
headcount by 387 during the year 
to 2,487. Restructuring actions taken 
during the year will give rise to estimated 
annualised savings of C$5 million.
Branch numbers in Canada were 
reduced by 29 to 225 (2008: 254).
Construction loans
Business proﬁ le
The Group has retained, through North 
American Loan Services (“NALS”), the 
portfolio of construction loan receivables 
formerly owned and managed by Stock 
Building Supply (“Stock”). These are 
loans made to builders to ﬁ nance the 
construction of properties. At origination 
the term of the loan is a maximum 
of 12 months, with an option at NALS’s 
discretion to extend by six month 
increments, and with a registered 
charge over the property. The charge 
usually has priority over other charges 
over the asset and is often reinforced 
by liens under State law and personal 
guarantees. In general, the funding is 
made available as the expenditure is 
incurred, rather than in advance, 
which restricts the exposure, and the 
completed property cannot be sold by 
the builder unless the loan has been 
repaid and the charge released. 
Charges for impairment of receivables 
and gains or losses on the disposal of 
foreclosed property, as well as the cost 
of labour and facilities, are included in 
the Group’s trading proﬁ t. Income from 
interest and fees is included in the 
Group’s ﬁ nance revenue, and interest 
expense in the Group’s ﬁ nance cost.
Strengths and strategy
The Group intends to effect a phased 
reduction in the construction loans 
portfolio over the next two to three 
years. It expects to continue to 
undertake selective lending only, to 
allow for an orderly reduction in the 
scope of the business. The portfolio 
will also be reduced through a phased 
withdrawal from selected markets to 
position the business for a possible 
future sale.
Following its separation from Stock, 
NALS has ceased operations in ﬁ ve 
States, and now has 90 per cent of its 
portfolio in North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Texas and Virginia. 
Performance
Both new loan originations and the 
outstanding loans have been reduced 
over the past 12 months reﬂ ecting a 
more cautious approach to lending 
following the continuing decline in the 
US housing market. At 31 July 2009, 
construction lending receivables on 
Wolseley’s balance sheet, ﬁ nanced by 
an equivalent amount of construction 
loan borrowings, was $272 million 
(£163 million) compared to $470 million 
at the previous year end. The trading 
loss for the year of $37 million has 
decreased slightly from $38 million in the 
prior year and reﬂ ects bad debt charges 
and losses on property disposals of 
$29 million. The run rate of losses 
is expected to decline over the next 
12 months.
Following the separation from Stock, 
NALS recorded an exceptional charge 
of $48 million to reﬂ ect an impairment of 
receivables that arose as a result of the 
separation and the withdrawal from 
certain markets at that time rather than 
from any further deterioration in its 
underlying markets. 20 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business proﬁ le
Wolseley UK trades through a number 
of brands, each of which targets a 
particular sector and many of which 
have leading positions in their sectors:
Number One
Plumb Center
Parts Center
Drain Center (above ground)
Climate Center (in refrigeration)
William Wilson (Scottish independents)
Number Two
Pipe Center
Encon Insulation
Number Three
Brandon Hire
Number Four
Build Center
In Ireland, Heat Merchants and Tubs 
and Tiles are both number one in their 
sectors, while Brooks is the leading 
timber merchant and the second largest 
builders’ merchant.
Wolseley UK operates a national 
distribution centre, servicing Plumb, 
Parts and Climate Centers from 
Leamington Spa. Wolseley operates 
three regional distribution centres, in 
Melmerby, Worcester and Marston 
Gate, and DHL operates a distribution 
centre in Crick. The business has a ﬂ eet 
of 2,200 commercial vehicles and trades 
from 1,544 branches in the UK and 99 
in Ireland.
European operations – UK and Ireland
Business strengths
 Strong brand and market position
3  Wolseley “Centres” are strong, 
well-known brands targeted to 
speciﬁ c customer groups
3  Performing at or above the market 
in plumbing and heating
Established business model
3  Extensive branch network
3  Advanced supply chain providing 
next day delivery
3  Operating cash ﬂ ow of £390 million 
over the last 12 months
Plumb Center is a market leading 
specialist supplier of domestic lightside 
products including central heating 
equipment, plumbing, drainage, 
bathrooms and showers.
Build Center is a national builders’ 
merchant supplying building 
materials and services to the trade. 
The extensive product range includes 
bricks and blocks, aggregates and 
cement, insulation and plasterboard, 
timber, tools, landscaping and 
drainage, as well as ironmongery 
and personal protective equipment. 
Build Center also provides additional 
products through specialist 
branches, including timber, 
landscaping materials, general 
ironmongery and hardwood, Dryad 
architectural ironmongery and glass.
Pipe Center is a supplier to mechanical 
services and plant engineers, offering 
expertise in tube valves and ﬁ ttings in 
steel, plastic, copper , stainless steel as 
well as commercial and industrial 
heating and air conditioning equipment.
Bathstore is a leading bathroom 
specialist. The retailer’s product range 
includes baths, basins, showers 
and shower cubicles, whirlpools, 
bathroom furniture, toilets and taps.
Encon and Nevill Long are specialist 
distributors of insulation, drywall, 
ceilings, partitioning, ﬁ re protection 
and related products to all sectors of 
the construction industry.
Key brands
1,643
Number of branches
11,673
Number of employees
Scale
Performance
  % of 
Group
Revenue £2,699m 19%
Trading proﬁ t  £55m 11%
£m
  Revenue
  Trading profit
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
2,351
2,690
3,171 3,203
2,699
183 201 211
176
55 Wolseley plc 21 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Market opportunities
The total construction market in 
the UK and Ireland was estimated 
by Euroconstruct to be worth 
about €215 billion in calendar year 
2008. Both markets have contracted 
in calendar year 2009, reﬂ ecting the 
overall contraction of credit and 
reduction in consumer demand, and 
more speciﬁ cally the collapse in property 
prices, with the Irish market suffering 
much more severely than that of the 
UK. Some support for demand will be 
provided by government projects to 
invest in affordable homes and in large 
infrastructure programmes. In the 
medium term customers will continue to 
renovate their homes, and in the longer 
term there is likely to be fundamental 
demand for additional housing as family 
units fragment and single-person 
occupancy grows.
Strengths and strategy
Wolseley companies, which have been 
distributing building materials in the UK 
and Ireland for more than 30 years, 
have an established business model, a 
number of strong brands with specialist 
sales teams and leading positions in 
their markets and an experienced 
management team. 
The product range is diverse – more 
than 400,000 product lines, including a 
signiﬁ cant percentage of own brand 
private label products – supported by 
strong supplier relationships. The supply 
chain, based on the distribution centres 
and ﬂ eet of delivery trucks, provides 
same day or next day delivery 
throughout the UK. 
The business will continue to focus on 
the fundamentals of customer service 
and on building on its stronger market 
positions. The complexity of its portfolio 
of brands and the branch network 
has been rationalised in light of market 
opportunities. There are further 
efﬁ ciencies to be extracted from the 
DC network and, as the market 
recovers, there will be opportunities 
to invest in both organic growth and 
industry consolidation.
Performance
Wolseley UK recorded a 15.8 per cent 
decrease in revenue to £2,699 million 
during the year (2008: £3,203 million). 
The overall gross margin was lower due 
to competitive pressure partially offset 
by price management and sourcing 
beneﬁ ts. Trading proﬁ t declined by 
69 per cent compared to the prior 
year, from £176 million to £55 million, 
due to lower organic trading volumes 
and a loss of £30 million in Ireland. 
As a result, the trading margin fell from 
5.5 per cent to 2.0 per cent. Cash ﬂ ow 
performance was strong, with another 
signiﬁ cant reduction in cash-to-cash 
days achieved in the period.
Signiﬁ cant action has been taken 
throughout the year to reduce the cost 
base in the UK and Ireland, resulting 
in annualised savings of £160 million. 
In addition to a headcount reduction 
in the year of 3,083 and net branch 
closures of 284 branches, action to 
rationalise the supply chain was also 
taken through the closure of the Didcot, 
Chorley, Henﬁ eld and Ripon distribution 
centres.
As at 31 July 2009 the total number of 
branches for Wolseley UK and Ireland 
was 1,643 (31 July 2008: 1,927).
Scale advantages
Wolseley UK uses its distribution 
network to create value for customers 
by improving the service provided to 
them through quicker, more reliable 
delivery of products. For example, 
the company supplies the spare parts 
and building materials required for 
response, repair and maintenance 
work for Tesco’s 2,000-plus UK 
retailing stores. The supplies are 
predominantly distributed via a 
dedicated Parts Center branch set up 
inside Wolseley’s National Distribution 
Centre at Leamington Spa and 
supported through the company’s 
nationwide branch network. 
Using Wolseley UK’s distribution 
network in this way is cost-effective 
for the company, efﬁ cient for the 
customer and demonstrates the 
company’s ability to deliver bespoke 
services tailored for its biggest 
customers. 22 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business proﬁ le
DT Group operates in Denmark, Finland, 
Sweden and Norway. Since 1 August 
2008 the Woodcote business, which 
operates in the Czech Republic, Poland, 
Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, has 
reported through DT Group, as the 
product lines and customer proﬁ les 
are similar.
The cluster trades through seven 
principal brands:
•  Stark is the number one building 
materials distributor in Denmark, 
with 2009 revenue of DKK7.4 billion 
through 93 branches.
•  Starkki is the second largest building 
materials distributor in Finland, with 
2009 revenue of DKK3.5 billion 
through 22 branches.
•  Beijer is the number one distributor 
of buildling materials in Sweden, 
with 2009 revenue of DKK3.3 billion 
through 64 stores.
•  Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in 
Denmark, with 2009 revenue of 
DKK1.6 billion from 40 stores.
•  Neumann Bygg is a Norwegian 
builders’ merchant, with 2009 revenue 
of DKK1 billion through 14 stores.
•  Woodcote is an Eastern European 
builders’ merchant, with 2009 revenue 
equivalent to DKK0.7 billion revenue, 
with 42 branches.
•  Cheapy is a Swedish DIY and 
retail chain of 20 stores, with 2009 
revenue of DKK0.3 billion.
European operations – Nordic
Business strengths
 Strong brand and market position
3  A leading retailer and distributor 
of building materials in the Nordic 
markets
3  Stark and Beijer are market leaders in 
Denmark and Sweden respectively
3  Starkki is No.2 in Finland
Attractive market dynamics
3  Fragmented building materials 
market
Established business model
3  Industry leading working capital 
management
3  Strong and experienced 
management team
3  Well placed branch network
3  Signiﬁ cant operational leverage on 
the upside
3  Operating cash ﬂ ow of DKK1.7 
billion over the last 12 months
Silvan is a Danish chain of DIY stores, 
represented broadly in Denmark, with 
a wide and well assorted product 
range targeting primarily DIY 
consumers.
Stark is a nationwide Danish chain 
of builders’ merchants with sale of 
timber, building materials and tools, 
providing professional advice on 
building and logistics solutions to 
professional and DIY builders.
Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders’ 
merchants with a wide and well 
assorted product range targeting 
professional builders, consumers, 
home builders, industry and 
distributors.
Beijer Byggmaterial is a Swedish 
chain of builders’ merchants, which 
operate through combi-stores with a 
wide and well assorted product 
range targeting both professional 
customers and consumers.
Neumann Bygg is a Norwegian chain 
of builders’ merchants trading with 
consumers, professional customers 
as well as industry and retailers.
Woodcote is a chain of builders’ 
merchants and specialist stores in 
Central Europe trading from outlets 
across Poland, the Czech Republic, 
Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, 
providing heavyside building 
materials and internal systems 
to professional contractors 
throughout the region.
Key brands
296
Number of branches
6,749
Number of employees
Scale
Performance
  % of 
Group
Revenue £2,113m 14%
Trading proﬁ t  £96m 19%
DKKm
  Revenue
  Trading profit
2008 2007 
10 months
2009
18,451
22,986
18,256
1,125
1,596
832 Wolseley plc 23 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Market opportunities
The total construction market for 
the Nordic region was estimated 
by Euroconstruct at €107 million 
in calendar year 2008. While 
Euroconstruct has forecast an overall 
contraction of 8 per cent for calendar 
year 2009, with growth in civils and 
infrastructure partly compensating for a 
30 per cent reduction in new residential 
building, Wolseley’s experience has 
been that the market decline has been 
even steeper than this. In Denmark, 
government policies are aimed at 
supporting consumer conﬁ dence: 
tax rates have reduced as well as 
interest rates and mandatory savings 
schemes have been relaxed. 
The Swedish government has also 
provided support to consumers, 
increasing borrowing by the equivalent 
of 6.5 per cent of GDP . The recession 
in Finland is expected to last longer 
than in the other Nordic territories. 
In the longer term, population growth, 
particularly in Denmark and Sweden, 
which have recently had high levels 
of immigration, is expected to support 
the market.
Strengths and strategy
The cluster has an established business 
model, strong brands and well-located 
branches in a large market which, 
because of its fragmentation, has 
attractive dynamics. In the current 
weak markets the focus has been 
on preserving cash and closing 
loss-making stores or divisions, while 
capturing market share from smaller 
operators. There are opportunities 
to build further on strong customer 
relationships, for example by providing 
services as well as products to private 
customers with larger projects and 
providing premium delivery services 
to professional customers and also 
to increase the share of own-brand 
products. As markets recover there will 
be opportunities to expand the branch 
network and to make acquisitions.
Performance
Given the challenging market backdrop 
the Nordic region, which includes the 
Eastern European heavyside businesses 
of Woodcote, achieved a resilient 
performance in 2009, with all Nordic 
countries at least tracking in line with 
the market. For the year ended 31 July 
2009 revenue for the Nordic cluster fell 
from DKK22,986 million (£2,290 million) 
to DKK18,256 (£2,113 million) reﬂ ecting 
an organic revenue decline of 18.4 per 
cent. Trading proﬁ t of DKK832 million 
(£96 million) was 47.1 per cent lower 
than the prior year of DKK1,596 million 
(£159 million). Overall the gross margin 
was ﬂ at and the trading margin was 
4.6 per cent (2008: 6.9 per cent) as 
management demonstrated its ability 
to reduce costs as business growth 
slowed. During the year there has 
been some beneﬁ t from government 
intervention to stimulate activity, 
particularly in Sweden, but with a 
negligible impact on the Nordic market.
In response to market conditions, the 
Nordic region reduced its headcount 
by 1,205 during ﬁ nancial year 2009. 
Restructuring actions taken will give 
rise to estimated annualised savings of 
DKK376 million. During the year action 
was taken to exit the DT Group’s DIY 
business in Sweden trading under the 
Silvan brand, which was loss making. 
This resulted in the closure of eight 
branches with the conversion of 
three branches to Beijer Builders’ 
stores. 
Cash ﬂ ow performance was strong, 
with a further reduction in cash-to-cash 
days achieved in the year ended 
31 July 2009.
The Nordic cluster had 296 branches as 
at 31 July 2009 including 42 Woodcote 
branches (2008: 324). 
Fundamentally attractive 
business sector
DT Group is a leading retailer and 
distributor of building materials in 
the Nordic markets. Its Stark and 
Beijer brands are market leaders in 
Denmark and Sweden respectively, 
with Silvan the number one DIY retailer 
in Denmark and Starkki, the second 
largest builders’ merchant in Finland. 
DT Group has a well-placed branch 
network and a strong and experienced 
management team who have been 
responsible for driving cost and capital 
efﬁ ciency and establishing strong 
working capital management.
During the downturn, DT has continued 
to perform at least in line with the 
markets in which it operates. These are 
highly fragmented and the medium and 
long-term outlook for the construction 
market in this region is expected to be 
positive. There are future opportunities 
to further consolidate DT’s leading 
market positions and beneﬁ t from 
its operational leverage once the 
market recovers.  24 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business proﬁ le
The Group’s French business is 
organised into three divisions.
The building materials division, based 
in Paris and Rennes, recorded revenue 
of €1.4 billion in 2009 (2008: €1.6 billion). 
It has one national and ﬁ ve regional 
distribution centres, and 349 branches. 
The main brand, Réseau Pro, is the 
number two integrated distributor of 
heavyside building materials in France. 
The division also trades through the 
brands Panofrance (timber, panels and 
interior design), Cardor (tiles) and 
Coverpro (rooﬁ ng).
The plumbing, heating and pipes 
division, based in Lyon, recorded 
revenue of €0.8 billion in 2009 (2008: 
€1.0 billion). It has one national and 
seven regional distribution centres, 
and 403 branches. 
The main brand, Brossette, is the 
number two integrated distributor of 
plumbing, heating, pipes valves and 
ﬁ ttings in France. The division also 
trades as Brossette TC (specialist 
in drains and industrial pipes), CDL 
(electricals), Pôle Confortique (air 
conditioning), Brossette TP (specialist 
in public works) and Ditac (parts).
The timber import and solutions division 
recorded revenue of €0.3 billion in 2009 
(2008: €0.3 billion). It has 24 branches 
and it trades through seven brands: 
Silverwood (interior and exterior 
panelling), Sinbpla (specialist carpentry 
and joinery), Savare (specialist sawing 
and planing), Nailweb (joists and 
girders), Charpentes Françaises 
(industrial), Bois des Trois Ports (exotic 
woods) and Cerland (garden furniture).
Market opportunities
The French construction market is 
the second largest in Europe, with 
volumes estimated by Euroconstruct 
at €214 billion in calendar year 2008, 
though forecast to contract by 6 per 
cent in calendar year 2009.
Although there is a government recovery 
programme, only €2 billion of additional 
expenditure has been pledged to 
the construction sector, mostly in 
initiatives to construct social housing 
(an additional 25,000 units per year) and 
renovate unﬁ t housing. The RMI market, 
which provided 62 per cent of Wolseley 
France’s revenue in 2009, will continue 
to be key, and is strongly linked to 
consumer conﬁ dence. The renewable 
energy segment is growing rapidly and 
represents a signiﬁ cant opportunity.
In the longer term, population growth 
and the ageing of the housing stock are 
expected to underpin demand.
European operations – France
Business strengths
 Strong brand and market position
3  Brossette is the No.2 distributor of 
plumbing and heating in France
3  Réseau Pro is a leading distributor 
of heavyside building materials in 
France
Attractive market dynamics
3  France is the second largest 
construction market in Europe
3  Market downturn likely to be less 
severe than in UK
Established business model
3  Recent investment in distribution 
model
3  Operating cash ﬂ ow of €297 million 
over the last 12 months
Réseau Pro is a distributor of wood 
and building materials.
Brossette is a major distributor of 
plumbing supplies and pipes, valves 
and ﬁ ttings in France.
Silverwood is a specialist in timber, 
ﬂ ooring, indoor and outdoor covering 
and product structure.
Key brands
776
Number of branches
9,053
Number of employees
Scale
Performance
  % of 
Group
Revenue £2,144m 15%
Trading proﬁ t  £32m 6%
€m
  Revenue
  Trading profit
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
2,399
2,515
2,774
2,850
2,486
143 132 150 139
37 Wolseley plc 25 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Strengths and strategy
Wolseley France has an established 
business model and leading brands in 
one of the largest European markets 
and has invested in distribution centres 
in recent years.
The plumbing and heating business 
is being repositioned away from its 
traditional reliance on oil-ﬁ red boilers 
and towards the growing demand 
for renewable energy solutions. 
The number of small sales points will 
be reduced as there is better coverage 
from distribution centres and larger 
locations will be reinforced in service 
levels and by the renovation of 
showrooms. Spare parts and electricals 
will be integrated into the core business 
and higher-margin own brand sales will 
be developed.
The building materials business will be 
developed through Réseau Pro as a 
nationwide supplier of a wide range 
of products, while specialist brands 
are used to develop new markets. 
The branch network is being 
rationalised. There are opportunities 
from the expected growth of demand 
for environmentally sound and more 
energy-efﬁ cient construction materials 
and methods, and to develop own-
brand product lines.
No further investment for growth will 
be made in France as a whole until the 
restructuring currently planned has been 
completed and results are satisfactory. 
Non-core operations will be disposed of 
when appropriate.
Performance
Local currency revenue was down 
12.8 per cent to €2,486 million (2008: 
€2,850 million) with organic revenue 
declining 12.9%. Despite this, the 
gross margin was broadly ﬂ at although 
trading proﬁ t was 73 per cent lower at 
€37 million (2008: €139 million), as 
management continued to phase cost 
reduction actions in accordance with 
French social laws. The 2007/8 trading 
proﬁ t beneﬁ ted from €11 million more 
non-exceptional property and other 
asset disposal proﬁ ts than 2008/9. 
Trading margin for the year ended 
31 July 2009 was 1.5 per cent 
(2008: 4.9 per cent). Spot cash-to-cash 
days were lower than the prior year 
with improvements in inventory days 
and receivable days, despite changes 
to legislation regarding payment 
of suppliers. 
Management attention continues 
to focus on lowering the cost base 
and maintaining gross margins with 
additional social plans launched in June 
and July. During the year restructuring 
actions gave rise to €28 million of 
exceptional costs, headcount was 
reduced by 1,152 and 56 branches 
were closed. The restructuring actions 
are expected to give rise to annualised 
savings of €39 million (£34 million). 
Particular focus has been on the 
Brossette lightside businesses which 
made a trading loss of €4 million 
in the year ended 31 July 2009. 
The repositioning of Brossette continues 
with the aim of providing a broad range 
of solutions for professionals in the 
heating segment, to expand the 
showroom capability and to improve 
customer service and the product 
offering. 
In addition, action has been initiated 
to exit the loss making branches relating 
to the public works business, subject to 
employee consultation. 
France reduced the number of branches 
to 776 in the year ended 31 July 2009 
(2008: 848). 
Local brands/knowledge
Being part of Wolseley plc allows 
the different Wolseley businesses 
to leverage the knowledge and 
capabilities of the Group and create 
natural synergies. Examples include 
taking advantage from experiences 
in similar businesses such as Réseau 
Pro (Wolseley France’s main heavyside 
brand) which has recently been sharing 
best practices with DT Group in the 
Nordic region and has introduced 
its “Craftsmen corner” concept into 
“Réseau Pro Express” (the self-service 
area). This is a dedicated area in 
the front of a branch with specialist 
advice as well as high end tools 
and accessories for highly skilled 
tradesmen. To date, the concept 
has been extremely well received 
by customers. 26 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business proﬁ le
The principal operations in Central and 
Eastern Europe, and their revenue in 
2009, are in Austria (£268 million), 
Switzerland (£212 million), the 
Netherlands (£211 million) and Italy 
(£129 million). There are also smaller 
operations in Luxembourg and 
Denmark.
There are 66 branches and 858 
employees in Austria. The principal 
brand is ÖAG, the number one 
distributor of plumbing and heating 
products and there are also specialist 
divisions – Kontinentale (industrial pipe), 
FAP (bathroom ﬁ ttings), Parts Center 
and Miet Center (tool hire).
There are 41 branches and 697 
employees in Switzerland. The principal 
brand is Tobler, the number one 
distributor of plumbing, heating and air 
conditioning products in the country. 
In the Netherlands, the main brand is 
Wasco-Kopex, which is the number two 
distributor of heating, plumbing and 
ventilation equipment. There are also 
specialist divisions supplying spare parts 
for boilers and installation tools, and 
providing energy-saving technologies. 
There are 29 branches and 357 
employees.
Manzardo in Italy has 46 branches and 
486 employees. It is the number three 
distributor of plumbing and sanitary 
products in Italy, although the market 
is so fragmented that management 
estimates that it has only a 2 per cent 
market share.
The businesses in Luxembourg (CFM) 
and Denmark (Electro-Oil) are the 
market leaders in their respective 
specialist segments.
The Group disposed of its plumbing and 
heating business in Hungary and one of 
its Belgian businesses during the year, 
for a loss of £16 million. On 27 July 
2009 it announced that, after its 
strategic review of the Central European 
cluster, it had decided to dispose of its 
remaining business in Belgium, and 
the plumbing and heating businesses 
in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. 
These businesses have been classiﬁ ed 
as held for sale at 31 July 2009, 
resulting in a further loss of £28 million.
European operations – Central and Eastern Europe
Tobler is a Swiss distributor of 
heating and plumbing products.
ÖAG is an Austrian distributor of 
plumbing and heating supplies and 
of pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings.
Wasco is a Dutch distributor of 
heating and plumbing products 
and spares.
Manzardo is an Italian distributor of 
plumbing, heating, sanitary and air 
conditioning products to installers.
CFM is a distributor of sanitary, 
heating and appliances and pipes 
based in Luxembourg.
Electro-Oil is a Danish distributor of 
gas and oil heating systems and their 
associated parts.
Key brands
Business strengths
 Future focus on countries where 
Wolseley has:
3  Built sufﬁ cient scale
3  Established leading market 
positions
3  Ability to deliver an appropriate 
ﬁ nancial return
266
Number of branches
2,936
Number of employees
Scale
Performance
  % of 
Group
Revenue £965m 7%
Trading proﬁ t  – –
£m
  Revenue
  Trading profit
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
642
735
846
908
965
30 31 32 Wolseley plc 27 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Market opportunities
The total size of the construction 
market in Austria, Italy, Switzerland 
and the Netherlands was estimated 
by Euroconstruct at €340 billion in 
calendar year 2008, with an overall 
6 per cent contraction forecast for 
2009. The Swiss real estate sector 
has held up well for most of the year, 
as the high level of activity in residential 
housing construction has resulted in 
unusually low vacancy rates but not an 
excess of supply. The other markets 
have all contracted by comparison 
to 2008, prompting government 
responses. The Austrian government 
has announced an economic stimulus 
package amounting to 2.5 per cent 
of GDP and the levels of growth in 
neighbouring Eastern European 
countries will provide continuing 
support. The Italian government is 
liberalising regulations over new 
residential building and it is expected 
that demographics will continue to 
support demand.
Strengths and strategy
The Group has recently completed a 
strategic review of the cluster, which 
focused on identifying those countries 
where it can utilise its scale and 
established leading market position to 
deliver an appropriate ﬁ nancial return. 
The Group has decided to retain a 
lightside presence in Switzerland, 
Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Holland 
and Italy. Following the review, action 
has been initiated to strengthen the 
leadership in Austria and Italy and these 
businesses will be further restructured. 
Until this restructuring is completed, no 
further capital will be allocated for the 
expansion of these businesses, other 
than maintenance capital expenditure.
Performance
The businesses in Central and Eastern 
Europe achieved revenue growth, in 
sterling, of 6.3 per cent to £965 million 
(2008: £908 million), reﬂ ecting the 
beneﬁ ts of exchange rates, partly offset 
by an organic revenue decline of 8.9 per 
cent. The gross margin was ﬂ at for the 
year as a whole, although it improved 
during the second half following the 
disposals of MART in Hungary and 
Wasco-Anbuma in Belgium and the 
closure of KSM (an Austrian steel and 
metal distributor) which were loss 
making. The cluster broke even at 
trading proﬁ t level, as it did in the 
previous year. As a direct result of the 
focus on working capital, cash-to-cash 
days improved signiﬁ cantly compared 
to the prior year.
Given the deteriorating market 
conditions, action taken in the year 
has resulted in a headcount reduction 
of 850 and annualised savings of 
£20 million. Following the strategic 
review announced in July 2009, action 
has recently been taken to strengthen 
the leadership teams in Italy and 
Austria and restructuring measures are 
underway focusing on gross margin 
management, simplifying the product 
range and driving improvements in 
customer service. 
On a pro forma basis, for the year 
ended 31 July 2009, the continuing 
constituent businesses in Central and 
Eastern Europe (Austria, Italy, 
Luxembourg, the Netherlands and 
Switzerland) had revenue of £868 million 
(2008: £801 million) and a trading proﬁ t 
of £5 million (2008: £4 million).
At 31 July 2009 the cluster had 226 
branches (2008: 290). 
Scale advantages
Wasco is a Dutch distributor of heating 
and plumbing products and spares.  
It has been able to add value to 
customers by leveraging its extensive 
distribution network. For example, 
the business has been able to create 
a unique solution for Feenstra, a 
Dutch heating company, which has a 
speciﬁ c Feenstra logistics area in key 
distribution locations where Wasco 
picks and packs all small installation 
material in specially developed 
“Feenstra Buckets” for distribution 
to the customer. IT teams from both 
companies worked together to develop 
an electronic ordering process directly 
into Wasco’s Enterprise Resource 
Planning system. Wasco now receives 
orders two to three days before 
delivery so both parties have a better 
and more efﬁ cient planning process. 
This has improved Wasco’s logistics 
performance and delivery times for 
the customer. 28 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Future outlook
On 6 May 2009 the Group announced 
that it had entered into a joint 
arrangement with the Gores Group LLC 
(“Gores”) which acquired Stock. Gores 
controls the joint venture, with Wolseley 
retaining, as at 31 July 2009, a 44 per 
cent equity interest and two out of 
seven seats on the Board. Wolseley 
ceased to consolidate Stock from the 
date of the transaction, and as Stock 
had previously been reported as a 
separate major line of business it 
has been treated as a discontinued 
operation in the ﬁ nancial statements. 
Wolseley recognised an after tax loss 
on disposal of £81 million (£159 million 
before tax) as a result of the transaction. 
For the nine month period of Wolseley 
ownership, Stock had revenue of 
$1.8 billion (£1.1 billion) and a trading 
loss of $182 million (£117 million). 
Wolseley’s equity interest in the joint 
arrangement is accounted for as an 
investment in an associate and its share 
of the post-tax proﬁ ts or losses of the 
associate are shown as a single item in 
the income statement.
At the date of disposal, Stock entered 
into a pre-packaged Chapter 11 
reorganisation, which allowed it 
to reject a net $225 million of lease 
commitments, while ensuring that trade 
creditors were paid in full. 
Wolseley provided a $100 million 
debtor-in-possession facility during 
the reorganisation, but Stock’s cash 
ﬂ ow was sufﬁ ciently strong that no 
drawdowns were required under this 
facility. Stock emerged from Chapter 11 
reorganisation on 30 June 2009, at 
which date it received $75 million 
of preferred equity from Gores and 
entered into a $150 million banking 
facility. Wolseley has no remaining 
ﬁ nancing commitments in relation 
to the joint arrangement. Further 
restructuring has been undertaken, 
leaving the business focused on 19 
high-potential residential markets. 
Stock’s markets have continued to be 
weak, with housing starts appearing 
to stabilise at levels far below historic 
averages. Competitors are retrenching 
and in some cases also undertaking 
Chapter 11 restructuring, but so 
far few have gone out of business. 
Wolseley has recorded £15 million 
as its share of the joint arrangement’s 
losses for the three months to 31 July 
2009 (including £6 million of exceptional 
restructuring costs). Its investment in the 
associate was stated at £53 million at 
31 July 2009.
Market trends since the July trading 
update continue to support the Group’s 
view that in the short term market 
conditions will remain challenging driven 
by tight credit conditions, high levels of 
foreclosures and rising unemployment 
rates. New residential markets are 
expected to show continuing signs of 
stabilisation, RMI markets will continue 
to decline albeit at a slower rate and 
Commercial and Industrial markets are 
expected to decline at a faster rate. 
Each segment is likely to recover at 
different rates dependent on local 
economic and credit conditions.
Overall, we remain cautious as to the 
outlook in 2009/10, although proﬁ t 
trends in the second half are expected 
to improve, driven by cost reduction 
actions already taken in 2008/9 which is 
expected to result in incremental beneﬁ t 
in 2009/10 of £233 million. During 
2009/10 actions to lower the cost base 
will be taken according to anticipated 
local market conditions, to ensure 
operational leverage is maximised as 
markets recover. At the same time, the 
Group will continue to evaluate where 
to prioritise future investment, in order 
to develop its leading businesses 
which are characterised by leading 
competitive positions and strong 
customer franchises.
Discontinued operations Wolseley plc 29 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Risk management
The Company has in place a comprehensive risk management programme which is designed to 
ensure that signiﬁ cant and emerging risks are identiﬁ ed, assessed and managed effectively . During the 
year , the risk management programme was strengthened with the introduction of a protocol which 
ensured more consistent categorisation and assessment of risks. This allows for better appraisal of 
risks both from the perspective of the operating company and the Group, and for more accurate 
reporting and review of those risks. The new programme also requires a more rigorous plan for 
management of any signiﬁ cant risks that have been identiﬁ ed, with operating companies assuming 
greater accountability .
Market conditions
The Group’s results depend on the levels of activity in the 
new construction and property repair and remodelling 
markets. These in turn can ﬂ uctuate rapidly, and depend on 
such factors as:
3 the general rate of GDP growth
3 consumer conﬁ dence
3 the availability of credit to ﬁ nance customer investment
3 mortgage and other interest rates
3  the level of government initiatives to stimulate 
economic activity
3 inﬂ ation
3 unemployment
3 demographic trends
and others. These factors are out of the Group’s control and 
have been difﬁ cult to forecast.
Levels of activity have decreased markedly over the last two 
years, and there is a risk that they may decrease further or 
that improvement may be slow. A continuing downturn or 
lack of improvement in any of the Group’s markets could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results or 
ﬁ nancial condition.
Risk
Restructuring actions
In response to the recent deterioration of its markets, the 
Group has undertaken a restructuring programme to reduce 
costs and preserve cash. This has involved divesting certain 
businesses and other assets, closing branches, reducing 
headcount and curtailing capital expenditure.
The Group’s assessment of the level of restructuring 
required, and its expectations for the ﬁ nancial beneﬁ ts it will 
derive, are based on assumptions about future economic 
conditions that are inherently highly uncertain. There is a 
risk that the downturn may be more severe than the Group 
expects, so that it fails to reduce costs as much as it could 
do, and there is also a risk that the downturn is less severe 
and the recovery more rapid than the Group expects, so 
that it reduces its size excessively and is unable to beneﬁ t 
fully from the recovery. Either of these outcomes could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results or 
ﬁ nancial condition.
Mitigation
The Group’s businesses review all available indicators of 
activity – such as market statistics, economic forecasts, 
surveys and competitor announcements – to assist in 
making decisions.
All the Group’s businesses have active programmes, 
monitored from the centre, to reduce their cost base in 
line with expected levels of sales, to identify and exploit 
counter-cyclical opportunities, such as projects funded by 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and to 
diversify into the sectors, particularly commercial and 
industrial, that have proved more robust.
Programmes remain well managed to improve cash ﬂ ow 
and reduce debt.
All decisions about closing or divesting businesses or 
exiting market sectors are made on the basis of cost-beneﬁ t 
analyses. Group management only approves those 
which are consistent with our overall view on the direction 
of our markets and the longer term strategic direction 
of the Group.
Each business reports monthly on the costs incurred and 
the beneﬁ ts realised to date and forecast to be realised in 
the current and subsequent ﬁ nancial year and these reports 
are reviewed and challenged by central management. 30 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Risk management continued
Financial ﬂ exibility
Wolseley’s current bank facilities include a covenant that 
its net debt should not exceed 3.5 times its annualised 
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”). A breach of this covenant could 
result in a signiﬁ cant proportion of the Group’s borrowings 
becoming payable immediately.
In order to remain in compliance with this covenant, and 
depending on the future performance of its business, there 
is a risk that the Group might have to take actions to reduce 
costs or preserve cash that it would not otherwise have 
chosen to do, or that it might not have the resources to 
exploit opportunities it would otherwise have pursued. 
Either of these outcomes could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s results or ﬁ nancial condition.
Competitive pressures
Wolseley competes with numerous local and regional 
distributors, as well as product manufacturers, in serving the 
existing customer base and responding to trends in its 
markets.
The Group’s numerous markets have different 
characteristics. Trends affecting certain of them include:
3 customer or supplier consolidation
3 manufacturers shipping directly to customers
3 commoditisation of products
3 increasing demand for e-commerce
3  changes in technology to improve fuel efﬁ ciency 
or reduce environmental cost.
The Group’s competitive position in any one market 
can depend on such factors as:
3 product availability
3 supply chain efﬁ ciency
3 pricing
3 branch location
3  the product knowledge and customer service 
levels of its staff
3 availability of credit
3  ability to support speciﬁ c customer requirements 
(eg central billing).
There is a risk that competition in some or all of the Group’s 
markets could reduce sales prices or margins, which could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results or 
ﬁ nancial condition.
The Group regularly updates its ﬁ ve-year strategic plan 
to reﬂ ect changing market conditions and prepares 
medium-term ﬁ nancial forecasts and shorter-term 
budgets on the basis of this plan.
These allow the Group to monitor its capital structure 
and assess whether the overall balance of debt and 
equity remains appropriate, and also to monitor its future 
compliance with covenants.
If these forecasts indicate periods of limited headroom, 
the Group can take whatever action is needed to restore 
a comfortable margin of compliance.
The Group also regularly reviews ﬁ nancial performance, 
cash ﬂ ow forecasts and its exposure to ﬂ uctuations in 
currency exchange rates.
The successful share placing and rights issue, and the signing 
of a two-year forward start debt facility effective in 2011, has 
signiﬁ cantly improved the Group’ s ﬁ nancial ﬂ exibility.
Risk Mitigation
Wolseley competes through the service, expertise and 
the product breadth it offers as well as on price.
Local businesses respond to the dynamics of their local 
markets and serve customers appropriately. Whatever 
changes those businesses require – for example, shifting 
the product mix towards higher margin own-brand ranges, 
or developing services to reduce their customers’ overall 
procurement costs – are supported by the investment 
in people, technology and logistics that is enabled by 
the Group’s international scale.
Central management conducts a regular review 
of operational performance, including the monitoring 
of non-ﬁ nancial KPIs. Wolseley plc 31 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Systems and infrastructure capabilities
The Group can only carry on business as long as 
transactions are supported by its information technology 
systems. There is a wide variety of systems across the 
Group, some of which have been operating for many years, 
which makes it difﬁ cult to capture or to aggregate certain 
kinds of information which would assist management in 
responding to market changes or to competitor activity. 
The Group is running a large-scale programme of business 
improvement (the Business Change Programme), which 
will implement shared and upgraded systems across the 
Group over a number of years.
This programme has recently been in competition with other 
projects for the limited funding available, which has delayed 
the planned deployment, but the Group still expects that 
beneﬁ ts over the lifetime of the systems will signiﬁ cantly 
exceed development costs.
There are risks that the anticipated beneﬁ ts may not be 
realised or that they may be delayed, that development 
and implementation of new systems and extending the 
life of legacy systems may cost more than currently 
budgeted, and that the deployment may result in 
greater business disruption or diversion of management 
attention than currently foreseen. Any of these outcomes 
could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
results or ﬁ nancial condition.
Liquidity risk
While the Group’s current bank facilities provide adequate 
borrowing capacity for the next four years, these facilities 
are only available as long as the Group continues to comply 
with its covenants. The Group will seek to reﬁ nance these 
facilities well before they expire, and may identify investment 
opportunities in the medium term that require access to 
additional ﬁ nancial resources. There is a risk that the Group 
may not be able to obtain new facilities or reﬁ nance existing 
facilities on satisfactory terms, which could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s results or ﬁ nancial condition.
Product prices and availability
The market price and availability of products distributed by 
the Group, such as stainless steel, copper, plastic, timber 
and other products (or commodities used in such products), 
can ﬂ uctuate.
The cost of fuel, which is a signiﬁ cant proportion of the 
Group’s distribution cost, can ﬂ uctuate.
Product shortages may arise as a result of unexpected 
demand or production difﬁ culties. In addition, suppliers in 
certain territories rely on obtaining credit insurance on their 
receivables, and in recent market conditions have been 
ﬁ nding it increasing difﬁ cult to do so, which affects their 
willingness or ability to make product available on credit.
There is a risk that the Group may be unable to 
accommodate or respond to adverse price ﬂ uctuations 
and that the Group may lose sales due to lack of available 
products, which could have a material adverse effect on 
the Group’s results or ﬁ nancial condition.
Risk Mitigation
Wolseley is committed to investing to ensure the 
appropriate infrastructure is in place to sustain its current 
business and support growth. A governance structure has 
been established, cascading from the Board to operating 
divisions, to ensure that the planned revenue and capital 
costs remain appropriate, that beneﬁ ts will be delivered 
and the risks of disruption to the business are controlled 
and monitored and to make the detailed decisions about 
allocating resources between competing projects.
During the course of the year, strong and effective 
management of this risk has ensured that no major debt 
facility should need to be negotiated until 2013.
The Group’s strategic plan provides the basis for assessing 
the level of facilities required throughout its planning horizon 
and also allows an estimate of relevant credit metrics.
The Group intends to obtain a credit rating during the 
ﬁ nancial year 2009/10 and is currently working towards 
this. A credit rating will assist in the reﬁ nancing of existing 
facilities as they mature and extend the ﬁ nancing options 
available to the Group.
The Group sources products from a wide variety of 
manufacturers and suppliers with none of these accounting 
for more than 5 per cent of its total material and supply 
purchases during the 2008/9 ﬁ nancial year. The Group 
actively seeks diversity of suppliers for key product ranges 
and increasingly works with suppliers to forecast demand 
and hence manage product availability better.
Generally, the Group is able to maintain margins by 
passing on price increases from its suppliers to its 
customers. The Group’s businesses also seek to minimise 
the effects of changing prices through economies of 
purchasing and inventory management, resulting in cost 
reductions and productivity improvements.
The Group has provided assistance to a number of 
its suppliers in covering their receivables, for example 
by making presentations directly to credit insurers or 
changing credit terms to mitigate their exposure. 32 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Risk management continued
Credit and counterparty risk
Wolseley provides sales on credit terms to many of its 
customers. There is an associated risk that customers 
may not be able to pay outstanding balances.
The North American Loan Services business (formerly part 
of Stock Building Supply) also provides loans to ﬁ nance 
the construction of properties. There is an associated 
risk that customers may not be able to pay outstanding 
loan balances.
Wolseley places funds on deposit with banks, and 
enters into interest rate swaps under which it is entitled 
to receive future cash ﬂ ows from banks. There is an 
associated risk that counterparties may not be able to 
meet their obligations.
International operations
Wolseley operates in 27 countries, which can present 
logistical and management challenges owing to different 
business cultures, laws and languages. The Group needs to 
strike the right balance between centralising where there are 
beneﬁ ts to be gained from the Group’s size and expertise, 
while allowing businesses the right amount of autonomy 
to respond to local conditions, and while recognising that 
business models that have been successful in certain 
regions cannot necessarily be transferred to others.
In addition, there are general risks arising from managing 
operations internationally:
3  ﬂ uctuations in currency exchange rates may affect 
Wolseley’s reported operating results and its ﬁ nancial 
position;
3  changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties 
could affect the ﬁ nancial performance of Wolseley’s 
foreign operations; and
3  changes in other regulations or treaties may also affect 
the ability of the Group to repatriate proﬁ ts from its 
foreign operations.
People
Wolseley’s ability to provide leadership and products and 
services to customers depends on retaining sufﬁ ciently 
qualiﬁ ed, experienced and motivated personnel.
In order to increase productivity, and be able to take 
growth opportunities when markets improve, Wolseley 
must maintain the skills and experience of its existing 
management and continue to develop the managers 
of the future.
The current difﬁ cult conditions experienced in certain 
markets, and the Group’s response to them, have increased 
staff turnover and may demotivate remaining staff.
Risk Mitigation
Each of the businesses has established procedures to 
monitor and collect outstanding receivables. Signiﬁ cant 
outstanding and overdue balances are reviewed regularly 
and prompt action is taken. In many cases, protection is 
provided through lien rights on projects or through credit 
insurance arrangements, and all of the major businesses 
use professional, dedicated credit teams, in some cases 
ﬁ eld based. Appropriate provisions are made promptly for 
debts that may be impaired.
The construction loans provided by North America Loan 
Services are secured on the related properties and are 
managed by a dedicated lending team within that business.
Group Treasury maintains a list of approved counterparties 
and exposure limits, and monitors the credit ratings and 
credit default swap spreads of these counterparties monthly.
Wolseley believes that the beneﬁ ts of its geographical 
spread outweigh the associated risks. The portfolio effect of 
owning businesses in a range of economies and currency 
regimes reduces the volatility of the Group’s longer term 
performance. The Group continues to realise efﬁ ciencies in 
sourcing and distribution, and has programmes in place to 
share best practice.
The Group seeks to manage its foreign currency risk 
and the steps it takes are described in the ﬁ nancial risk 
management section on pages 37 to 38 and 111 to 114.
The Group actively works with its taxation advisers to 
understand the implications of changes to tax legislation 
and to minimise its tax exposure and risk.
One of Wolseley’s key competitive advantages is the 
quality and experience of its people. Local companies 
have allocated speciﬁ c responsibilities for reviewing the 
performance of senior managers and employees with high 
potential. Development and succession planning for these 
individuals is planned and strong performance is rewarded.
The Group continues to invest signiﬁ cant time and money in 
senior management, manager development and graduate 
development programmes.
The Group reviews its compensation, incentivisation and 
rewards policies to ensure that it is able to recruit and retain 
high quality employees. Wolseley plc 33 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Governmental regulations
The Group’s operations are affected by various statutes, 
regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which 
it operates. While the Group is not engaged in a highly 
regulated industry, it is subject to the laws governing 
businesses generally, including laws affecting competition, 
land usage, zoning, the environment, health and safety, 
transportation, labour and employment practices (including 
pensions), data protection, and other matters. In addition, 
building codes or particular tax treatments may affect the 
products Wolseley’s customers are allowed to use and, 
consequently, changes in these may affect the saleability 
of some Wolseley products.
Litigation
The international nature of Wolseley’s operations exposes 
it to the potential for litigation from third parties. In the US, 
the risk of litigation is generally higher than that in Europe in 
such areas as workers’ compensation, general employer 
liability and environmental and asbestos litigation.
There is a risk that, due to the increasing sourcing of 
products from lower cost countries, recourse to the 
manufacturer may be more difﬁ cult were a product to 
fail for a customer.
Risk Mitigation
The Group monitors regulations across its markets to 
ensure that the effects of changes are minimised.
Certain changes in regulations may also provide 
opportunities, by increasing demand for a broader or 
higher margin product range. For instance, changes to 
the standard of heat insulation in new buildings required 
by building regulations in the UK have increased demand 
for specialist products provided by Wolseley UK.
Wolseley has a culture which is designed to resolve disputes 
directly with the party in question in a spirit of openness and 
co-operation. Litigation is generally regarded as a last resort.
In the case of asbestos litigation, Wolseley employs 
independent professional advisers to actuarially determine 
the potential gross liability, on the basis of assumptions 
about how claims will develop and the cost of settling such 
claims over the remaining lifetime of the potential litigants, 
which is about 50 years. Actual experience may be 
expected to differ from the assumptions made, and these 
assumptions are reviewed each year and the liability 
adjusted in the ﬁ nancial statements.
Wolseley has insurance which signiﬁ cantly exceeds the 
current estimated liability relating to asbestos claims. 
Based on current estimates, no material proﬁ t or cash 
ﬂ ow impact is expected to arise in the foreseeable future. 
Wolseley has recognised a discounted liability of 
£42 million in respect of asbestos litigation with an 
equivalent insurance receivable shown in other receivables 
reﬂ ecting the discounted sum recoverable from insurers in 
respect of this liability.
Further information of ﬁ nancial and related risks can be found on pages 37 to 38 under Other ﬁ nancial matters. 34 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Revenue and operating proﬁ t
After taking account of currency translation, Group revenue 
from continuing operations decreased by 2.5 per cent from 
£14,814 million to £14,441 million.
Operating result from continuing operations decreased 
by 209 per cent from a proﬁ t of £555 million to a loss of 
£606 million, after charging exceptional items of £458 million. 
Trading proﬁ t from continuing operations decreased by 
43 per cent from £787 million to £447 million, before 
deducting amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles of £595 million (2008: £162 million) and 
exceptional items of £458 million (2008: £70 million).
Currency translation
Currency translation increased Group revenue from continuing 
operations by £2,439 million (16.5 per cent) and Group 
trading proﬁ t from continuing operations by £147 million 
(18.9 per cent) compared with 2008.
The effect of US dollar appreciation has been to increase 
translated US trading proﬁ t by £100 million (27 per cent) 
compared with 2008. US dollar denominated proﬁ ts account 
for 64 per cent of the Group’s trading proﬁ t from continuing 
operations.
Exceptional items: continuing operations
Exceptional items comprise £346 million of restructuring 
costs, £41 million relating to the impairment of software assets 
under construction, £40 million relating to losses on disposal 
of businesses and revaluations of disposal groups, and 
£31 million relating to the impairment of construction loan 
receivables.
Within continuing operations, the Group disposed of four 
businesses in the year, for proceeds of £17 million, resulting 
in a loss on disposal of £12 million. A further three businesses 
have been classiﬁ ed as held for disposal at 31 July 2009: 
their net assets are stated at nil after a charge of £28 million 
to reduce their carrying value to estimated sales proceeds net 
of costs.
The restructuring costs, and the beneﬁ ts estimated to be 
realised in the year ended 31 July 2009 and in a full ﬁ nancial 
year, can be further analysed as the table below shows:
Finance costs
Net ﬁ nance costs for continuing operations of £145 million 
(2008: £156 million, including a one-off charge of £22 million 
in respect of the impairment of an available-for-sale 
investment), reﬂ ect high debt levels for most of the year and 
the effect of a net increase of £13 million in the net pension 
interest cost and an incremental £12 million in respect of 
discount charges on receivables funding arrangements. 
Net interest receivable on construction loans amounted to 
£8 million (2008: £12 million). Interest cover for continuing 
operations was three times (2008: six times).
Tax
The effective tax rate for continuing operations, being 
tax payable on proﬁ t from continuing operations before 
tax, exceptional items and amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles, was virtually unchanged at 
31.8 per cent (2008 restated: 31.1 per cent).
Discontinued operations
The loss from discontinued operations of £441 million (2008: 
£168 million) relates to Stock, and represents after-tax losses 
of £360 million for the period up to 5 May 2009, and an 
exceptional loss on disposal of £81 million incurred on 5 May 
2009 when the Group disposed of the majority of its interest in 
the business and ceased to consolidate it.
Earnings per share
Before discontinued operations, exceptional items and the 
amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, and 
after adjusting for the effects of the share placing and rights 
issue, earnings per share decreased by 60.2 per cent from 
240.3 pence to 95.6 pence. Basic loss per share including 
discontinued operations was 558.0 pence (2008: earnings per 
share of 41.0 pence). The average number of shares in issue 
during the year was 210 million (2008 restated: 181 million).
Dividends
In light of current market conditions, the Board is 
recommending no ﬁ nal dividend (2008: nil). The Group is 
committed to a progressive dividend policy and will revert to 
paying a dividend as soon as it is prudent to do so.
Financial review
Cost
£m
Headcount
reduction
2009 beneﬁ t
£m
Beneﬁ t
£m pa
UK and Ireland 183 2,914 74 160
France 24 1,020 6 33
Nordic 11 1,413 18 44
Central and Eastern Europe 38 489 7 20
Europe 256 5,836 105 257
US plumbing and heating 80 3,861 88 164
Canada 6 130 1 3
North America 86 3,991 89 167
Group head ofﬁ ce 4 21 4 7
Total continuing operations 346 9,848 198 431 Wolseley plc 35 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Financial position
Shareholders’ funds increased by £17 million from £3,359 million to £3,376 million. The net increase comprised the following 
elements:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Retained (loss)/proﬁ t (1,173) 74
Dividends – (215)
New share capital subscribed (rights issue, share placing and exercise of share options) 994 4
Exchange translation 280 129
Actuarial losses (115) (135)
Fair value losses on cash ﬂ ow hedges (20) –
Share-based payments 9 5
Other, including tax credit not recognised in the income statement 42 46
Increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds 17 (92)
During April 2009 the Group raised £994 million by a share 
placing and a rights issue net of £52 million of costs and 
£5 million of shares purchased by the Group’s Employees 
Beneﬁ t Trusts.
Net debt, excluding construction loan borrowings, at 31 July 
2009 amounted to £959 million compared to £2,469 million at 
31 July 2008, giving a gearing of 28.4 per cent compared with 
73.2 per cent at the previous year end.
Return on gross capital employed (“ROGCE”) from continuing 
operations decreased from 12.7 per cent to 6.9 per cent as a 
result of reduced proﬁ tability and the increased capital base. 
The ROGCE for 2009 was below the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital.
The unamortised balance of goodwill and other acquired 
intangibles in the balance sheet as at 31 July 2009 is 
£2,051 million (2008: £2,681 million) with the reduction 
resulting from goodwill impairments of Stock, DT Group, 
Wolseley UK and Benelux. The Group did not recognise any 
acquired intangibles in the year (2008: £64 million, principally 
representing customer relationships and brand names), 
as no acquisitions were made in the year (2008: investment 
of £249 million, including deferred consideration and 
net debt).
The balance of property, plant and equipment has reduced 
from £1,842 million at 31 July 2008 to £1,593 million at 
31 July 2009, as depreciation and impairment charges of 
£286 million have exceeded additions of £94 million, and 
disposals of £257 million have offset exchange gains of 
£200 million.
The Group has recognised an investment in associate of 
£53 million (2008: £nil) representing the Group’s remaining 
44 per cent share of the net assets of Stock.
In the US, construction loan receivables, ﬁ nanced by an 
equivalent amount of construction loan borrowings, were 
£163 million (2008: £237 million). The decrease reﬂ ects 
reduced loan originations and loan impairments as the 
business has withdrawn from a number of markets.
Provisions have increased from £178 million to £366 million, 
reﬂ ecting a net increase of £152 million in the restructuring 
provision, which mainly related to onerous lease commitments 
on branches that have been or will be closed.
The Group’s retirement beneﬁ t obligations have increased 
from £236 million to £341 million, largely due to a reduction of 
£86 million in the market value of assets held in the main UK 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme. Full details of the pension 
schemes operated by the Group are set out in note 32 to the 
ﬁ nancial statements. 36 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Net cash ﬂ ow from operating activities decreased by only 
£62 million from £1,262 million in the year ended 31 July 2008 
to £1,200 million in the year ended 31 July 2009, despite the 
reduction in trading proﬁ t, as the Group has reduced working 
capital by £846 million. Free cash ﬂ ow was £851 million 
(2008: £571 million).
Capital expenditure decreased from £316 million to 
£157 million, as all spend across the Group was carefully 
scrutinised and non-essential projects were postponed.
Shareholder return
The Group monitors relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
for incentive purposes (as set out within the Remuneration 
report on pages 62 and 72) and for assessing relative ﬁ nancial 
performance.
For the year ended 31 July 2009, Wolseley achieved an 
annualised TSR of minus 38 per cent, which put it in 56th 
position against the monitored peer group of 68 companies 
drawn from the FTSE 100 and the building materials and 
construction sectors utilised for the latest award under the 
long-term incentive plan. Details of TSR performance since 
2004 and the composition of the peer group are set out in the 
Remuneration report. At the close of business on the date of 
the Directors’ report, the value of an ordinary share as quoted 
in the Financial Times newspaper was 1455 pence per share 
(2008: 1960 pence, as adjusted), a decrease of 25.7 per cent. 
The market capitalisation of the Group at the date of 
this Report was £4,130 million (2008: £3,111 million). 
No dividend has been paid this year.
Financial review continued
Cash ﬂ ow
The cash ﬂ ow performance of the Group over the last ﬁ ve years is summarised below.
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
Cash ﬂ ow from operating activities 1,200 1,262 1,299 850 765
Maintenance capex
1
(157) (242) (191) (140) (117)
Tax (27) (99) (167) (206) (151)
Dividends – (215) (198) (162) (145)
Interest (165) (135) (117) (57) (31)
Free cash ﬂ ow 851 571 626 285 321
Acquisitions less disposals
2
(33) (183) (1,346) (820) (401)
Expansion capex – (75) (205) (206) (122)
Proceeds of share issues 999 4 673 31 33
Other
3
(347) (319) (265) (69) (32)
Movement in debt 1,510 (2) (517) (779) (201)
1 Maintenance capex is considered as equivalent to depreciation in a year when capex exceeds depreciation.
2 Excluding debt acquired and disposed of.
3 Other movements are primarily debt acquired, foreign exchange differences and proceeds of sale of property, plant and equipment. Wolseley plc 37 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Other ﬁ nancial matters
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to market risks arising from its 
international operations and the ﬁ nancial instruments which 
fund them. The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
instruments are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and 
liquidity risk. The Group has well deﬁ ned policies for the 
management of interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and 
counterparty exposures, which have been consistently applied 
during the ﬁ nancial years ended 31 July 2008 and 2009. 
By the nature of its business the Group also has trade credit 
and commodity price exposures, the management of which 
is delegated to operating businesses. There has been no 
change since the year end in the major ﬁ nancial risks faced 
by the Group.
The Treasury Committee of the Board reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks and they are 
summarised below. These policies are regularly reviewed. 
The Group’s ﬁ nancial instruments, other than derivatives, 
comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various 
items, such as trade receivables and trade payables, that 
arise directly from its operations. The Group also enters into 
derivative transactions (principally interest rate swaps and 
forward foreign currency contracts). The purpose of such 
transactions is to hedge certain interest rate and currency 
risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of 
ﬁ nance.
The Group’s policy is to control credit risk by only entering 
into ﬁ nancial instruments with authorised counterparties 
after taking account of their credit rating. It is, and has been 
throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that 
no trading in ﬁ nancial instruments or speculative transactions 
be undertaken.
Details of ﬁ nancial instruments are shown on pages 110 and 
111 in note 29 to the ﬁ nancial statements.
Capital structure and covenants
The Group’s sources of funding currently comprise cash ﬂ ows 
generated by operations, equity contributed by shareholders 
and borrowings from banks and other ﬁ nancial institutions. 
To assess the appropriateness of its capital structure to 
current and forecast trading, the Group’s principal measure 
of ﬁ nancial gearing is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. 
The Group aims to maintain this ratio in the range of 1.5:1 
to 2.3:1, and the Group’s active main borrowing facilities all 
contain a ﬁ nancial covenant limiting the ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA to 3.5:1. As at 31 July 2009 the ratio was 1.4:1 
(2008: 2.7:1), calculated as shown in the table below. 
In addition, the Group monitors the ratio of net debt to 
shareholders’ funds for consistency with the targeted ratio of 
net debt to EBITDA. At 31 July 2009 the ratio of the net debt 
to shareholders’ funds was 28.4 per cent (2008: 73.5 per cent).
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group 
may adjust the amounts of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets 
to reduce debt.
Liquidity risk
The Group maintains a policy of ensuring sufﬁ cient borrowing 
headroom to ﬁ nance all investment and bolt-on acquisitions 
for the following ﬁ nancial year with an additional contingent 
safety margin. Large acquisitions are funded shortly before the 
acquisition is made.
In March 2009, the Group entered into a €1 billion forward 
start multi-currency syndicated facility, which was a 
restatement and extension of the Group’s existing €2.8 billion 
facility. This €1 billion facility will commence when the existing 
facility matures on 1 August 2011 or is cancelled by the 
Group before this date, and will expire on 1 August 2013. 
Following the share placing and rights issue which was 
completed in April 2009, the Group cancelled facilities 
amounting to £1,017 million which were no longer required.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Operating proﬁ t (606) 301
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 595 306
Depreciation and other amortisation 321 242
Exceptional one-off costs 458 76
EBITDA 768 925
Depreciation included in exceptional costs (77) (9)
Acquisition adjustment – 6
Disposal adjustment (1) (1)
Covenant EBITDA 690 921
Year end net debt 959 2,469
Net debt: EBITDA 1.4 2.7 38 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
In August 2008 the Group entered into a €127.5 million 
uncommitted receivables funding arrangement in France. 
In December 2008 the Group entered into a £100 million 
receivables funding arrangement in the UK, committed for 
two years, and in July 2009 this arrangement was increased 
to £140 million.
The undrawn loan facilities are available to fund working 
capital, investments and general corporate purposes.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has signiﬁ cant overseas businesses whose 
revenues are mainly denominated in the currencies of the 
countries in which the operations are located. The Group 
does not normally hedge proﬁ t translation exposure since 
such hedges have only temporary effect.
Most of the foreign currency earnings generated by the 
Group’s overseas operations are reinvested in the business to 
fund growth in those territories. The Group’s policy for the year 
ended 31 July 2009, and subsequently, is to adjust the 
currencies in which its debt is denominated to match the 
currencies in which its trading proﬁ ts are generated, as this 
hedges the ratio of net debt to EBITDA in the covenant 
calculation.
The Group’s policy for the year ended 31 July 2008 and earlier 
was to maintain the majority of its debt in the currencies of its 
operating companies as this hedged both the net assets and 
cash ﬂ ows of the Group. 
Interest rate risk
To manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate ﬂ uctuations, 
the Group’s policy is that at least 20 per cent of bank 
borrowings required during the next two years should be at 
ﬁ xed rates. The Group borrows in the desired currencies 
principally at ﬂ oating rates of interest, and then uses interest 
rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate proﬁ le. 
Financial reporting
These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under IFRS. 
The Group’s accounting policies set out on pages 78 to 83 of 
the accounts have remained unchanged from those disclosed 
last year, except for the inclusion of new policies for associates 
and discontinuing operations following the Stock disposal 
transaction, which have resulted in additional disclosures 
but have not had a signiﬁ cant impact on the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
position or results of operations.
Insurance
The Group has a captive insurance company which is 
registered and operational in the Isle of Man. No policies are 
written for third parties. The administration is undertaken by a 
specialist management company. The Group’s insurance 
arrangements are reviewed annually.
Going concern
The Directors are conﬁ dent, on the basis of current ﬁ nancial 
projections and facilities available, and after considering 
sensitivities, that the Company and the Group has sufﬁ cient 
resources for its operational needs and will enable the Group 
to remain in compliance with the ﬁ nancial covenant in its bank 
facilities for at least the next 12 months. Accordingly the 
Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁ nancial statements.
Stephen P Webster Chief Financial Officer 
28 September 2009
Other ﬁ nancial matters continued
The maturity proﬁ le of the Group’s borrowings and committed undrawn facilities at 31 July 2009 was as follows:
Maturity date
Drawn on 
uncommitted 
facilities 
£m
Private 
placement 
£m
Drawn on 
committed 
facilities 
£m
Drawn 
amounts 
£m
Undrawn 
amounts 
£m
Capacity 
£m
Borrowing facilities expiring in
Less than one year 42 – – 42 100 142
1–2 years 1 124 – 125 – 125
2–3 years 1 – 829 830 683 1,513
3–4 years 1 50 – 51 43 94
4–5 years 1 – – 1 852 853
After 5 years 1 432 217 650 – 650
Total 47 606 1,046 1,699 1,678 3,377
Amounts drawn on 
uncommitted facilities (47)
Total committed debt facilities 
as at 31 July 2009 3,330
As at 31 July 2008 2,716 1,159 3,875 Wolseley plc 39 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Individually, our operating companies 
have developed good practices over 
many years, some of which have been 
recognised by external awards and 
industry praise, for example in health 
and safety and ﬂ eet management. 
Our aim is to harness these good 
practices and deliver a coordinated 
approach to CR across the Group.
Economically, this year has been 
very challenging for our business and, 
while not detering our commitment, 
this has affected the speed and scale 
of the implementation of some of 
the objectives under our CR strategy. 
Nevertheless, good progress has been 
made by our operating companies and 
some examples are given later in this 
report. Further information is also 
available on our website.
More information regarding the impact 
of the global economic conditions on 
our businesses can be found on page 5.
Last year, we introduced a ﬁ ve-year 
framework for our CR programme. 
It recognised the ability of our 
businesses to make progress at 
different speeds and to set priorities, 
based on our ﬁ ve “key themes”, that 
were most suited to their business 
objectives. The progress we have made 
over the year is explained in 
more detail overleaf.
Corporate responsibility
This year has been a period of
development for Wolseley’s Corporate
Responsibility (“CR”) Strategy . Approved
by the Board in July 2008, the strategy
is intended to provide a framework for
our operating companies to build on our
strengths, apply best practice, learn from
each others’ experiences and, above all,
improve operational effectiveness.
www.wolseley.com/corporate-responsibility.aspx 40 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility continued
Health 
and safety 
Compliance with legal requirements, 
monitoring Group and operating 
company Key Performance Indicators 
(“KPIs”). 
Proactive safety culture, recognised 
industry leader.
Environment 
Compliance with legal requirements, 
establish KPIs, develop improvement 
programmes. 
Key themes
Group minimum standard Group goal
Carbon neutral operations, informing 
industry best practice.
People 
All employees are competitively 
rewarded and provided with 
development opportunities. 
Industry-leading staff retention and 
productivity rates.
Responsible 
business 
Endorsement of the Group Code of 
Ethics, identify forest source of timber. 
Group Code of Ethics and compliance 
programmes evidence best practice, 
eliminate risk-timber.
Community 
engagement 
Participating in, or donating to, a 
number of community projects. 
Public recognition of Wolseley’s 
contribution and value.
Strategy
The ﬁ ve key themes of Wolseley’s 
CR strategy are:
• Health and safety;
• Environment;
• People;
• Responsible business; and
• Community engagement.
These themes were selected to support 
Wolseley’s business strategy and 
represent the areas that have the 
greatest impact for our operations. 
Ensuring the health and safety of our 
people and maintaining our physical 
assets helps us to preserve the integrity 
of our operations and strengthens 
customer service. 
Measuring our environmental 
performance will enable us to set targets 
to improve our impact on climate 
change as well as reduce costs in our 
business. Offering competitive rewards 
and development opportunities will help 
to improve morale in our workforce, 
attract and retain high quality employees 
and ensure that our people can 
maximise their potential. Conducting 
business responsibly and with integrity 
minimises risk and strengthens our 
reputation. Building closer relationships 
with the communities in which we 
operate helps us to promote our 
business and its objectives and gain a 
greater understanding of our customers, 
neighbours and employees. Further 
information on each of our ﬁ ve key 
themes can be found later in this report. 
The strategy identiﬁ es minimum 
standards with which each of our 
operating companies should comply 
and Group goals which we aim to 
achieve over time. In pursuit of the 
Group goals, each operating company 
has the freedom to implement its own 
initiatives and targets in respect of each 
of the key themes. This approach 
recognises that the drivers for 
progression may vary from business to 
business, that different objectives may 
require different resources and time to 
achieve, and that they will therefore 
require different solutions. This approach 
also recognises that some of our 
businesses might achieve their goals 
within an earlier time frame than the 
overall ﬁ ve-year plan. Wolseley plc 41 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
To help achieve our objectives we have identiﬁ ed a number of priority actions, which are summarised in the tables that follow, 
together with the progress made to date.
We are pleased to report that our objectives for the ﬁ rst year of the CR strategy have broadly been met. The focus of resources 
on other Group priorities has resulted in a delay to some activities but not to a signiﬁ cant extent.
Responsible business
Prevention of fraud and corruption.
Group anti-fraud and anti-corruption 
policies and training are currently in 
development, for introduction later in 
the ﬁ nancial year.
Timber: development and coverage of 
the Group’s risk assessment process 
has continued and improved.
Other products: a pilot project is 
underway in Wolseley UK to begin 
the process of verifying our suppliers’ 
practices against our ethical sourcing 
standards.
Group CR strategy communicated 
to businesses. Engagement with 
key managers. Development of internal 
CR network to deliver local CR plans.
 Health and safety Group health and safety policy 
introduced in December 2008 with 
supporting Group-wide common 
management processes and KPIs.
Governance
Focus on building on existing CR 
governance and consolidating 
implementation processes.
Y ear 1: 2008 – 2009
 Target and priorities Progress
 Environment and 
Responsible business
Ethical sourcing.
Y ear 2: 2009 – 2010
3  CR governance and 
implementation processes are 
consistent and aligned across the 
Group. Implement enhancements.
3  Further focus on Group-wide 
approach to improvements to 
priority CR activities.
3  More detailed and consistent data 
gathering and reporting.
Y ear 3: 2010 – 2011
3  Higher standards achieved by all 
businesses.
3  Continuous improvement principles 
integrated into business processes.
Y ear 5: 2012 – 2013
3  Delivery of anti-fraud and anti-
corruption policies and training.
3  Continued development of local 
CR plans.
3  Refresh and re-launch Group Code 
of Ethics and supporting policies.
3  Develop Group environment and 
sustainability objectives.
Target and priorities Target and priorities Target and priorities 42 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility continued
We will provide a safe and 
healthy working environment 
and we will not compromise 
the health and safety of any 
individual.
With 51,000 employees, over 4,000 
branches and a ﬂ eet of over 16,000 
vehicles, the safety of our people and 
property is essential to our operations. 
Our employees’ activities include the 
manual handling of heavy objects, 
mechanical lifting, operating machinery 
and driving between our own sites, as 
well as to those of our suppliers and 
customers; these include construction 
sites that are inherently more hazardous 
than our branch locations. 
Effective management of our health 
and safety programme helps to minimise 
the risk of injury to our employees, 
customers and suppliers and damage 
to property; reduces costs associated 
with employee illness, injury and loss 
of physical assets; reduces the risk of 
legislative breaches; and protects our 
reputation. We always aim to identify 
areas for improvement and, where good 
practices exist, share them across 
the Group.
During the year, we introduced a Group 
health and safety policy. High quality 
health and safety programmes were 
already well established in our operating 
companies. The signiﬁ cant improvement 
was to deﬁ ne, for the ﬁ rst time, 
commitments, standards and metrics 
that could apply consistently to all of 
our operations. The policy is supported 
by a Letter of Commitment signed by 
the Group Chief Executive and by the 
Continental Division Chief Executives.
Implementation of the policy has been 
supported with a number of standard 
tools to help operating companies 
assess their current health and safety 
practices, identify areas that require 
improvement and develop plans and 
targets. The European and North 
American divisions worked together 
closely to align their practices, to ensure 
that data was collected in a consistent 
format and to identify efﬁ ciency 
improvements. 
Health and safety
CR governance
The Group Company Secretary and 
General Counsel (see biography on 
page 51) is responsible for the overall 
delivery of the Group’s CR programme. 
Within our operating companies, local 
management have responsibility for 
developing and implementing CR plans 
that are integral to their operations and 
that support the Group CR strategy. 
Maintaining responsibility for operating 
company plans in this way helps to 
promote accountability for our CR goals 
at the local level and helps to ensure 
that individual plans are aligned with 
local objectives, markets and resources. 
Progress against the CR programme is 
monitored at a Group level by regular 
updates from operating companies to 
the Group Company Secretary and 
General Counsel, who then updates the 
Board annually ensuring objectives and 
priorities are discussed and agreed.
Risk management 
An explanation of the Group’s risk 
management programme is set out on 
pages 29 to 33. Those risks which 
might have an impact on the key 
elements of our CR programme, and 
consequently on our business, are 
discussed in more detail in this section.
Prompted by the threat posed by the 
H1N1 virus (swine ﬂ u), the Group 
reviewed its business continuity plans 
and tested its preparedness to respond 
to the potential impact of the virus on 
our employees, their families and our 
customers. All employees have been 
provided with extensive information 
and advice to help prevent infection, 
recognise symptoms and plan 
responses where infection occurs. 
Risks associated with climate change, 
for example ﬂ ooding, present a threat 
to some of the Group’s physical assets 
but, overall, the impact is expected to 
be manageable or limited. These risks 
are reviewed annually as part of the 
renewal of the Group’s insurance 
programme. 
In the UK, the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment (“CRC”), to be introduced 
in 2011, will require Wolseley’s UK 
operations to participate in a 
government auction process for carbon 
emissions allowances. Wolseley UK 
has established a working group to 
assess the impact of the CRC on its 
operations and to identify ways to 
reduce its carbon emissions. 
These initiatives may include changes 
to physical infrastructure, for example 
the types of insulation and heating 
used in buildings, as well as cultural 
and behavioural changes to everyday 
practices and procedures. Carbon 
reduction initiatives identiﬁ ed by the 
CRC working group will be shared 
across the Group to ensure that the 
maximum beneﬁ ts can be gained.
It is possible that European legislation 
will be introduced within the next ﬁ ve 
years which will stipulate that all timber 
imported into the European Union must 
be from a legal source. We are engaging 
with national governments and the 
European parliament, as well as national 
timber trade federations, to provide our 
input to the development of legislation 
and government procurement policies. 
We are actively working with our 
suppliers to ensure the legal status 
of the timber we supply and thereby 
reduce the risk of purchasing products 
from illegal or unsustainable forest 
sources. See pages 47 to 48 for 
more detail. Wolseley plc 43 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Environment 
The Company also established an 
internet-based data site, which 
facilitated cost-effective communication 
in different time zones.
In support of our objective to further 
improve health and safety performance 
in all of our operations, in 2008 we 
stated our intention to introduce health 
and safety performance reporting based 
on KPIs common to the Group. 
Three key measures were introduced 
during the year to provide consistency 
in reporting in all of our businesses: 
medical injury rate, lost workday rate 
and ﬂ eet collision rate. These indicators 
were selected as the most appropriate 
measures for our business, based on 
their direct and indirect moral, legal and 
ﬁ nancial impact on our operational 
performance. These measures will help 
us to better identify areas where strong 
performance and best practices can 
be shared across the Group and 
identify activities that may beneﬁ t from 
additional resources and training. 
We are now able to benchmark 
performance within all businesses in 
the Group and have a ﬁ rm basis for 
assessing progress and trends over time.
The results of this analysis can be 
found below.
FY 2009
Medical injury rate
Number of at-work injuries 
requiring medical treatment 
per 100 employees. 4.4
1
Lost workday rate
Number of workdays lost per 
100 employees. 44.6
1
Fleet collision rate 
Number of third-party vehicle 
collisions per 100 vehicles. 18.5
2
1  Excludes DT Group (4,655 employees) which was 
unable to report data this year.
2  Excludes DT Group (1,172 vehicles) which was 
unable to report data this year.
While it is currently too early to report 
trends in safety performance at the 
Group level, a number of our operations 
have reported signiﬁ cant improvements 
in their safety performance compared 
with last year. In the US, Ferguson 
achieved a 40 per cent reduction in ﬂ eet 
collisions and a 17 per cent reduction in 
employee medical injuries. Wolseley UK 
reported an 18 per cent year-on-year 
reduction in its employee medical 
injuries and a 30 per cent reduction in its 
lost workday rate. A number of initiatives 
have helped to achieve these 
improvements. 
Our employees receive health and 
safety training appropriate for their role. 
This includes training on safe driving 
techniques, the operation of plant 
and equipment and general health 
and safety awareness. For example, 
in the UK monthly safety bulletins 
and awareness campaigns focus 
on speciﬁ c safety topics. In the 
US, over 5,400 delivery drivers, sales 
and management employees have 
completed a web-based driver training 
course during the year. Both the US 
and UK businesses also operate internal 
awards programmes for outstanding 
health and safety performance and 
safe driving and have been recognised 
by external national awards for their 
achievements in these areas.
We will report further on our health 
and safety performance and initiatives 
in next year’s report.
Through the maintenance and 
continuous improvement of our health 
and safety management practices, we 
have been successful in reducing the 
frequency of personal injuries and 
vehicle accidents. This in turn has led 
to efﬁ ciency improvements in our 
operations. 
We will run efﬁ cient 
operations that minimise 
waste and reduce our 
contribution to climate 
change. We will promote 
sustainable development.
The Group has a responsibility to 
manage the impact of its operations on 
the environment so that any harm is 
minimised and positive contribution 
is maximised. Opportunities to reduce 
our carbon impact, our use of natural 
resources and to reduce waste and 
recycle more materials exist in all our 
operations and at every stage of our 
products’ life cycle, from the sourcing 
of materials through their transportation 
and to their ultimate use and disposal. 
The increasing cost of energy, water 
consumption and the disposal of waste 
add a clear commercial imperative 
for measuring and understanding 
our performance in these areas. 
More information on each of these 
issues can be found on pages 44 to 45.
A priority for the second year of our CR 
programme will be to identify the best 
improvement opportunities for each of 
our businesses. In Wolseley UK, this 
will be part of our coordinated response 
to the requirements of the CRC. 
This process will contribute to the 
development of a set of Group-wide 
sustainability objectives to improve our 
environmental performance and 
operational efﬁ ciency. 
In certain markets, there is increasing 
demand for sustainable products. 
To remain competitive, it is important 
that we understand our customers’ 
needs and are responsive to change 
as the industry, markets and legislation 
develop. Wolseley UK’s Sustainable 
Building Center, located next to its 
headquarters in Leamington Spa, was 
opened in 2008. In its ﬁ rst year, it has 
attracted interest from existing and 
new customers such as architects, 
homebuilders, property developers and 
facilities managers and has provided 
an innovative means of showcasing 
the variety and quality of Wolseley’s 
sustainable product offering (see www.
wolseleysbc.co.uk for more information). 
A similar facility operates at Wasco in 
the Netherlands. Brossette in France 
has also introduced “Cap Energie”, 
this year, a project which includes, 
among other things, an initiative to 
further develop our renewables product 
capabilities. More information can be 
found in the case study on page 44.  44 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility continued
Environmental performance
This is the third year in which the Group 
has reported on its environmental 
performance. The Group has developed 
an improved data collection tool this 
year to evaluate the data reported on 
page 45. These enhancements have 
helped us to understand the accuracy 
and completeness of the data collected 
by our businesses and will be used to 
improve our data analysis and reporting 
in next year’s report. This year’s data 
has been reviewed for completeness 
and quality and analysed by an 
independent third party. 
With the geographically dispersed and 
decentralised nature of our operations, 
although the integrity of data gathered 
has improved signiﬁ cantly, complete and 
reliable data in all categories has been 
difﬁ cult to obtain from all locations. 
The scale of the Group’s operations has 
changed signiﬁ cantly over the past year 
as a result of the global economic 
environment and the consequential 
effect on our businesses’ markets. 
In addition, the Company sold Stock 
Building Supply in May 2009, retaining a 
minority shareholding in a joint venture 
with The Gores Group (see page 28 for 
more detail); environmental data relating 
to that business is not included in 
this report. These events have had a 
commensurate effect on the Group’s 
environmental impact. 
For these reasons, including the overall 
improvement in the quality of data 
produced since last year, it is not useful 
to provide a direct comparison with the 
Group’s environmental performance 
in previous years, nor does it provide 
a useful indication of future trends. 
However, our historical reported 
environmental performance can be 
found online at www.wolseley.com/
corporate-responsibility.aspx. 
We expect to improve the scope and 
integrity of the data that we collect 
to present a basis for year-on-year 
comparisons in future reports.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The vast majority of the Group’s 
greenhouse gas emissions derive from 
electricity use at our facilities (46 per 
cent) and the transportation of our 
goods (29 per cent). In addition to 
the increasing costs associated with 
energy consumption, our markets 
are likely to experience increasing 
legislative measures in the future aimed 
at reducing the climate change impact 
from commercial operations. To help us 
to reduce our emissions, our businesses 
have developed various measures, 
including environmental management 
systems, resource efﬁ ciency plans, 
ﬂ eet management systems and ﬂ eet 
backhauling programmes. More 
information on these activities can be 
found online at www.wolseley.com/
corporate-responsibility.aspx.
Environment continued
Cap Energie
The Cap Energie project is 
transforming Brossette, ensuring that 
the business is able to seize the huge 
opportunities presented by the shift 
towards new energy sources for 
heating. 
The French marketplace for heating 
products is changing, driven by 
shifting consumer demands and 
ﬁ nancial incentives from the French 
government. Analysts are now 
forecasting that more than 80 per cent 
of heating systems sold in ﬁ ve years’ 
time will be powered by new energy 
sources. 
Following a review of this new 
business environment, Brossette has 
implemented a wide-ranging project 
known as Cap Energie, which 
translates roughly as “moving 
forward with energy”. 
The main purpose of Cap Energie is 
to reinforce Brossette’s position as one 
of the key suppliers in the wholesale 
heating sector while also increasing its 
proﬁ tability. Brossette has traditionally 
been focused on oil and gas heating. 
The Cap Energie project aims to move 
the business rapidly to satisfy new 
demands; primarily for ground source 
heat pumps, which make use of 
renewable energy stored in the ground 
to provide one of the most energy-
efﬁ cient ways of heating buildings. 
Brossette is also concentrating more 
on solar energy products and other 
alternatives that are not based on 
fossil fuels. 
There are ten projects in all, ﬁ ve 
focusing on sales and ﬁ ve on support 
activities, all to be phased in over a 
three-year period. Four members of 
the Brossette management committee 
are part of a team of ten managers 
responsible for leading the project. 
To date, over 300 employees have 
been trained to provide the specialised 
knowledge and service needed to 
ensure that our customers are able 
to beneﬁ t fully from this new offering. 
Construction of a new training facility 
in Lyon has been completed and will 
open in the near future. Four new-
format point of sale facilities are 
already open and a new showroom 
concept has been developed to 
showcase Cap Energie products.
Back ofﬁ ce operations have also been 
improved to support these changes. 
A new distribution centre opened in 
the east of France at the end of 
January 2009 and IT systems 
improvements are currently being 
evaluated.  Wolseley plc 45 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Emissions of greenhouse gases have 
been reported in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“GHG 
Protocol”), which was developed jointly 
by the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development and the World 
Resources Institute. The standard 
differentiates between emissions 
for which businesses are directly 
responsible (“Scope 1 emissions”) and 
indirect emissions from the generation 
of supplied electricity and supplied heat 
(eg district heating) (“Scope 2 emissions”). 
Certain other indirect emissions (“Scope 
3 emissions”) do not form part of the 
core carbon footprint as deﬁ ned by the 
GHG Protocol. However, given the 
nature of our operations and the degree 
of control we exercise over certain 
activities, we do believe that it is 
appropriate to report on the emissions 
from third-party provided transportation 
as well as from our employees’ business 
travel. These Scope 3 emissions, 
together with our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions, are included in the data 
reported below.
Source
FY 2009 
Emissions
(tCO2e)
1
Electricity use 393,930
Fuel use: operations 118,270
2
Fuel use: transportation 
of goods 246,518
Business travel: vehicles 87,647
Business travel: air and rail 8,189
Refrigerant leakage 1,594
Total
3
856,148
Emissions per £m 
of revenue 59.3
1  Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as 
tonnes of CO2 equivalent (abbreviated as tCO2e), 
based on the Global Warming Potential (“GWP”) 
of each of the “basket of six” greenhouse gases, 
as deﬁ ned by the Kyoto Protocol. The GWP of 
CO2 is 1 (1 tonne CO2 = 1 tonne CO2e). For other 
greenhouse gases in the “basket of six”, including 
refrigerants, the GWP is relative to CO2 over a 
100-year time horizon (eg one tonne of the 
refrigerant R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes 
of CO2 in terms of the potential climate change 
impact). 
2 Includes supplied heat (district heating). 
3  Based on a combination of actual and estimated 
data. 
During the coming year, we will further 
evaluate the activities that contribute to 
our greenhouse gas emissions, with 
a view to reducing those emissions. 
In next year’s report, we will publish 
targets for the reduction of our 
emissions in future years.
Waste management
The Group’s businesses generate 
non-hazardous waste and, to a lesser 
extent, hazardous waste. Although 
deﬁ nitions vary from country-to-country, 
hazardous waste may include items 
such as batteries and electronic 
equipment; non-hazardous waste 
typically includes materials such as 
paper, plastic and metal.
Wolseley aims to measure and minimise 
the waste generated by its business 
activities. As well as reducing our 
environmental impact, reducing the 
waste we produce in our operations 
also has the beneﬁ cial effect of lowering 
waste removal costs. Our Group waste 
performance can be seen in the table 
below. 
Final waste 
destination
FY 2009 
Hazardous 
waste 
(tonnes)
FY 2009 
Non-
hazardous 
waste 
(tonnes)
Incinerated 1,283 6,599
Landﬁ lled 250 85,003
Recycled 77 22,617
Total
1
1,610 114,219
Waste per £m 
of revenue 0.1 7.9
1  Based on a combination of actual and estimated 
data. 
An example of how one Wolseley 
business is addressing waste 
management is described in the 
case study on page 46.
Water use
We have continued to measure 
water consumption throughout the 
Group during the year to enable the 
appropriate goals to be set for greater 
water efﬁ ciency. The majority of our 
water consumption derives from normal 
operational and sanitary water use. 
The Group’s water is almost exclusively 
supplied by local utility providers.
FY 2009 
(cubic metres)
Total water 
consumption
1
984,102
Average water 
consumption per 
employee 19.4
1  Based on a combination of actual and estimated 
data.  46 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility continued
People Environment continued
War on waste 
Wolseley UK is making huge progress 
in its efforts to minimise its impact 
on the environment and its waste 
management programme makes a 
valuable contribution. The Company 
has increased its recycling levels by 
10 per cent in the past year and now 
recycles 50 per cent of its waste. 
Recycling levels at Wolseley UK 
three years ago were approximately 
5 per cent.
The Company carries out a waste 
analysis periodically, to gain a 
better understanding of the waste 
management practices on Wolseley 
sites. Initial analysis showed that many 
of the Company’s waste bins were 
being collected when not completely 
full. Waste disposal by contractors is 
charged on a per collection basis, 
rather than by weight of waste 
collected; by rationalising its waste 
services, Wolseley UK reduced 
scheduled collections by waste 
contractors by approximately 
50 per cent, thereby reducing its 
waste collection charges. A more 
recent analysis has demonstrated 
opportunities to further reduce waste 
disposal volumes and costs. 
The waste analysis also revealed that 
much of Wolseley UK’s waste was 
made up of recyclable material. 
The Company has introduced a 
backhauling programme whereby its 
branches return their clear plastic, 
cardboard and wood pallets back 
to Wolseley UK distribution centres, 
utilising free space on its commercial 
ﬂ eet once branch deliveries have been 
off-loaded. 
Plastic and cardboard waste, although 
lightweight, is bulky and takes up 
space in branch waste bins. 
Reducing waste in this way allows for 
more efﬁ cient use of the waste bins, 
increases recycling rates and reduces 
the frequency of collections required 
by waste contractors. Where branches 
are not serviced by a distribution 
centre, they can backhaul recyclable 
material via a neighbouring branch, or 
on-site recycling services are installed. 
At Wolseley UK’s head ofﬁ ce, waste 
bills have been reduced as a result 
of a new recycling scheme, raising 
awareness of the types of material that 
can be recycled and improving access 
to recycling bins. Waste costs have 
dropped from £30,000 per annum in 
2007 to £6,000 in 2009. Recycling 
levels at the head ofﬁ ce have risen 
from approximately 10 per cent in 
2006 to around 80 per cent this year. 
The target is to achieve zero waste to 
landﬁ ll from the site. Four worm farms 
have been constructed at the head 
ofﬁ ce to reduce the volume of waste 
food at the site. The worms transform 
waste food into fertiliser and rich soil 
that will be used to improve green 
spaces around the building. 
2005/6 2006/7 2007/8 2008/9
5%
15%
40%
50%
Wolseley UK recycling  %
It is important that we value 
our employees and their 
diversity. We will develop 
our people, reward them 
competitively and engage 
them in our CR activities.
Over the past 18 months, the Group 
has made signiﬁ cant changes as it 
has responded to worsening market 
conditions. Regrettably, cost reductions, 
including those relating to our 
employees, are an inevitable necessity 
in contracting markets. In that time, 
approximately 17,000 employees have 
left the Group through redundancy. 
In all cases, we comply with local 
employment law as a minimum when 
making an employee redundant. 
Where appropriate, we also enhance 
redundancy terms beyond the local 
statutory minimum. Other restructuring 
work has taken place to improve human 
resources (“HR”) processes and offer 
efﬁ ciencies to routine, back ofﬁ ce 
HR activities.
We have taken the difﬁ cult decision 
this year to reduce the intake to our 
graduate recruitment programmes and 
suspend programmes in some markets. 
This decision will be reviewed when 
market conditions improve.
Training continues to be a priority for 
the Group. Our European and North 
American divisions both continued 
to operate leadership development 
programmes during the year. 
A new training programme for branch 
managers has been implemented 
in the UK, focusing on managerial 
competencies and technical skills. 
Online training modules are available 
to all employees in the UK and US.  Wolseley plc 47 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Operating in 27 countries, the Group 
employs people from a diverse 
spectrum of nationalities, race, gender 
and cultural backgrounds. Detailed 
analysis on employee diversity is not 
currently collected on a Group basis and 
is not believed to be an operationally 
signiﬁ cant priority. However, at Ferguson 
in the US, a diversity and inclusion 
programme has operated since 
2006 aimed at improving employee 
engagement, loyalty and productivity, 
and developing closer alignment 
between our employees and the 
customers they serve. Ferguson is 
beginning to measure the results and 
trends from this programme, which 
are helping to inform human resource 
planning and succession programmes. 
In 2007, a supplier diversity programme 
was developed to support the interests 
of suppliers operated by minority 
groups. These initiatives have been 
especially important recently for 
Ferguson as it has developed its 
markets in the retail sector. As required 
by US Federal Law, certain of Ferguson’ s 
diversity data is submitted to US 
government agencies on an annual basis.
As the markets in which we operate 
begin to recover from very difﬁ cult 
conditions, our People strategy will 
increasingly focus on re-designed 
reward and beneﬁ t schemes, leadership 
development programmes and the 
provision of future career opportunities. 
These initiatives will be aimed to 
motivate and retain our employees.
We are committed to 
working within the laws 
and regulations of all 
jurisdictions in which we 
operate and to comply with 
our Code of Ethics. We will 
encourage our suppliers to 
meet similar standards.
The Group’s Code of Ethics sets out a 
number of fundamental principles which 
all Group companies and employees 
are required to follow. The Code sets 
expectations for fair competition, 
compliance with laws (including 
anti-trust laws), avoiding bribery and 
conducting business with integrity 
with customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders.
In the competitive markets in which we 
operate, it is vital to ensure that we 
conduct our business responsibly and 
continually reinforce with our employees, 
customers and suppliers the principles 
by which we operate. With this in mind, 
a review of the Group Code of Ethics 
is currently being conducted, intended 
to refresh its content and reinforce the 
standards to which the Group adheres. 
Our intention is to introduce the updated 
Code by the end of 2009, together with 
individual new policies and training on 
the prevention of fraud and corruption. 
The Group has an established 
competition law compliance programme 
and improved training materials have 
been developed which will be used with 
employees in the coming year.
Timber sourcing
Sourcing timber from sustainable and 
well-managed forests is important to 
Wolseley. Many of our customers, 
including governments, demand legal 
and sustainable timber and our sourcing 
practices in this area help to ensure our 
reputation for supplying high quality 
products. We are committed to the 
elimination of illegally logged timber from 
our supply chain.
In support of our global timber policy, 
which sets out Wolseley’s commitment 
to the responsible purchasing of forest 
products, our timber procurement 
process includes a global risk 
assessment system that identiﬁ es 
the legal and sustainable status of 
the timber products we purchase. 
The system provides a risk assessment 
of product information from our 
suppliers, including details of species 
and country of origin, and captures 
supporting documentary evidence. 
This information is veriﬁ ed for Wolseley 
by an independent third party.
The system is particularly valuable 
where timber is sourced from forest 
areas where credible certiﬁ cation 
schemes do not currently operate, 
which may pose a greater risk of 
non-compliance with our policy. Where 
high-risk products have been identiﬁ ed, 
we have worked with our suppliers to 
improve control processes or identify 
alternative products. Where there has 
been no demonstrable improvement, 
we have ceased purchases and 
removed the product from sale.
Responsible business
FY 2009 
(cubic metres)
FY 2008 
(cubic metres)
FY 2007 
(cubic metres)
Total timber purchases
1
2,051,000 2,351,000 2,997,000
Total certiﬁ ed
2
77% 76% 65%
1  This year’ s timber data does not include data relating to Stock Building Supply (see page 44 for more 
information). Data above relating to FY 2008 and FY 2007 has been restated to allow consistent comparison.
2  Timber sourced from forests certiﬁ ed by recognised sustainable forestry schemes such as FSC, PEFC, 
SFI, CSA and MTCS.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council
PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁ cation schemes
SFI North American Sustainable Forestry Initiative
CSA Canadian Standards Association (Sustainable Forest Management Standard)
MTCS Malaysian Timber Certiﬁ cation Scheme 48 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility continued
Responsible business continued
The reduction in the Group’s timber 
purchases this year, compared to 
previous years, is almost entirely due to 
the contraction of the markets in which 
we operate.
Wolseley operates chain of custody 
schemes in its European businesses 
that provide independently certiﬁ ed 
veriﬁ cation of the ownership of products 
throughout the supply chain. 
Documentation to support the chain 
of custody is captured by our risk 
assessment system. Certiﬁ cation 
schemes have made the identiﬁ cation 
of sustainable timber much clearer for 
our customers.
Wolseley is an active member of the 
UK Timber Trade Federation (“TTF”), 
with which it has worked in close 
collaboration since 2004, helping 
to introduce the TTF’s Responsible 
Purchasing Policy in 2006. From 
October 2009, all TTF members 
must demonstrate as a condition 
of membership a commitment to a 
process of due diligence in the supply 
of timber. Wolseley’s timber risk 
assessment system meets this 
requirement. 
Our aim is to be certain that all 
our timber is obtained from legal 
sources and from suppliers operating 
responsible forest management 
practices. Where we cannot be certain, 
we encourage our suppliers to make 
efforts to improve their own practices 
and work towards credible certiﬁ cation. 
This helps us to ensure that, as well as 
being compliant with all applicable laws, 
our timber is sourced from sustainable 
forests.
Other product sourcing
A pilot project is underway in Wolseley 
UK to begin the process of verifying our 
suppliers’ practices against our ethical 
sourcing standards. To achieve this, we 
will seek assurances from our suppliers 
regarding a number of social measures, 
including in relation to labour standards. 
It is intended that in time, the lessons 
learned from this UK project can be 
used to implement similar initiatives 
in other parts of the Group. Wolseley plc 49 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Community engagement
We will be a responsible 
member of the communities 
in which we work.
We aim to engage with the local 
communities where our operations 
are based, as well as nationally and 
internationally. We continue to build 
strong relationships with our neighbours, 
suppliers and customers in order to 
maximise our contribution to the 
communities that they, and we, support. 
As well as recognising the philanthropic 
beneﬁ ts we can offer, our work in this 
area helps to improve the awareness 
and reputation of our businesses in 
their local communities and provides 
development opportunities for our 
employees. 
It is important to our businesses to 
build strong relationships with their 
local communities and to encourage 
charitable initiatives. Our reputation 
and the trust we earn from local 
communities helps us to achieve our 
business objectives. For example, 
demonstrating our commitment to being 
a responsible trading partner helps us to 
attract and maintain good relationships 
with our customers and suppliers. 
It also ensures we remain an attractive, 
competitive employer. 
Our employees and their businesses 
support many charities and community 
initiatives relevant to the countries and 
locations in which they operate. These 
are wide-ranging and include initiatives 
closely aligned with our business and 
its objectives, as well as charities for 
which our employees have a particular 
passion. 
They include organisations engaged 
in health, welfare, sports, education, 
civic and community projects as well 
as culture and the arts. A number 
of established relationships have 
generated successful projects. 
For example, in the US we have worked 
for a number of years with Habitat for 
Humanity and in the UK the Company 
is a member of Business in the 
Community.
We have reviewed our approach to 
charitable giving during the year with 
the aim of achieving more effective 
relationships with selected partners. 
A Group policy on charitable donations 
will be introduced in the next ﬁ nancial 
year that will more closely align our 
charitable giving and our community 
engagement activity with our employee 
development programmes as well as 
with aspects of our operations and 
product offering. We will focus our 
efforts on the built environment, 
homelessness, sustainability and climate 
change, environmental conservation and 
remediation, waste management and 
recycling, water quality and sanitation 
as well as literacy, numeracy and 
work-based skills. 
Further details of the amount of 
charitable donations the Group 
made during the year can be found 
on page 60. 
More information about our CR 
programme, including further case 
studies, statistics and examples of 
our practices, awards and community 
engagement can be found on the 
Wolseley plc website at www.wolseley.
com/corporate-responsibility.aspx.  50 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 John W Whybrow 
d, n
Chairman
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 1 August 1997 
and became Chairman on 13 December 
2002. Last re-elected in 2008 and standing 
for re-election in 2009.
Experience
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
and a member of the Disclosure Committee. 
Mr Whybrow is a non executive director of 
DSG International plc and was Chairman of 
CSR plc from March 2004 until May 2007. 
He was President and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 
of Philips Lighting Holding B.V ., based in the 
Netherlands, until 2001 and Executive Vice 
President, Philips Electronics from 1998 until 
March 2002, when he returned to the UK. 
Mr Whybrow is Chairman of Petworth 
Cottage Nursing Home. Age 62.
 
Ian K Meakins 
d, e, t
Group Chief Executive
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 13 July 2009. 
Standing for election in 2009.
Experience
Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief 
Executive of Travelex Holdings Ltd, the 
international foreign exchange and payments 
business. Previously he was Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer of Alliance UniChem plc until its 
merger with Boots in July 2006 and prior to 
that, was President, European Major Markets 
and Global Supply for Diageo plc, between 
2000 and 2004, spending over 12 years 
with the company in a variety of international 
management positions. Mr Meakins is a 
director of the Impetus Trust. Age 53. 
 Robert H Marchbank 
e
Chief Executive Offi cer, Europe 
and Managing Director, 
Wolseley UK Limited
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 24 January 2005. 
Last re-elected in 2008.
Experience
Mr Marchbank is responsible for all the 
European businesses. He ﬁ rst joined 
Ferguson Enterprises Inc. in 1982 and in 
2001 he moved to the UK to join the newly 
created Wolseley Group headquarters as 
Director of Strategic Planning and was then 
appointed as the Director of Information 
and Processes. Mr Marchbank took on full 
operational responsibility as MD for Wolseley 
UK and Ireland in July 2008. Age 49.
Our Board
  Gareth Davis 
a, n, r
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003. 
Standing for re-election in 2009.
Experience
Senior Independent Director and a member 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees. Mr Davis has been Chief 
Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc 
since its incorporation in 1996, having spent 
the last 37 years in the tobacco industry. 
Age 59.
Andrew J Duff 
n, r
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2004 
and last re-elected in 2007.
Experience
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Nominations 
Committee. Mr Duff is Chief Executive of 
RWE npower plc. He spent 16 years at 
BP plc where he held leading positions in 
marketing and oil trading and was latterly 
the Director of Strategic Planning for BP Oil, 
USA. Mr Duff is a member of CBI President’s 
committee, the CBI Climate Change board 
and the Green Fiscal Commission and is also 
a fellow of the Energy Institute. Age 50.
James I K Murray 
a, n
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 12 April 2002 
and last re-elected in 2007.
Experience
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Nominations Committee. 
Mr Murray, a chartered accountant, was a 
Non Executive Director of UK Coal PLC and 
was also Finance Director of Land Securities 
PLC from 1991 until his retirement in 2001. 
Mr Murray is the Chairman of Trustees of 
the Land Securities Pension Fund. Age 63. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 51 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 Wolseley plc 51
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 Frank W Roach 
e
Chief Executive Offi cer, 
North America
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 16 December 
2005. Standing for re-election in 2009.
Experience
Mr Roach is responsible for all the North 
American businesses. He ﬁ rst joined 
Ferguson Enterprises Inc. in 1976 and has 
held a number of business roles. In 2005, 
Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Vice 
President of the Wolseley North America 
management team, playing a key part 
in further developing and expanding the 
Group’s North American businesses. 
Age 58.
 Stephen P Webster 
d, e, t
Chief Financial Offi cer
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 1 August 1994. 
Last re-elected in 2008.
Experience
Mr Webster, a chartered accountant, was 
appointed as Group Finance Director on 
9 December 1994. He is chairman of the 
Disclosure and Treasury Committees. He 
was formerly a partner in Price Waterhouse. 
Mr Webster was a Non Executive Director of 
Bradford & Bingley plc until November 2008. 
Age 56.
 
a
 Member of the Audit Committee
d
 Member of the Disclosure Committee
e
 Member of the Executive Committee
n
 Member of the Nominations Committee
r
 Member of the Remuneration Committee
t
 Member of the Treasury Committee
Nigel M Stein 
a, n, r
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed to the Board on 1 December 
2003 and standing for re-election in 2009. 
Experience 
A member of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nominations Committees. Mr Stein, 
a chartered accountant, is currently Chief 
Executive Automotive of GKN plc and during 
his 15 years with this group has worked in a 
number of senior ﬁ nancial roles; he was, until 
September 2007, the Finance Director. Prior 
to GKN, he held senior ﬁ nancial positions 
with Laird Security Systems and Hestair 
Duple Limited. Age 53.
 
Richard Shoylekov 
d, e
Group Company Secretary and 
General Counsel
Appointment
Joined Wolseley plc in November 2007. 
Responsibilities
He is secretary to the Board and all 
Committees of the Board and is a member 
of the Disclosure and Executive Committees. 
Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility 
for the Group’s legal affairs, risk management 
and corporate responsibility. Age 44.
 Alain Le Goff 
n
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed with effect from 1 September 
2009. Standing for election in 2009. 
Experience 
Mr Le Goff retired as Executive Vice 
President, Supply of Reckitt Benckiser plc 
in March 2009, a position he had held for 
ten years. He joined Benckiser in 1986 as 
industrial director in France before moving 
to Germany in 1992, later becoming global 
logistics director. Mr Le Goff is currently a 
non executive director of Coty Inc., a US 
based leader in fragrances and of the holding 
company of the Birds Eye Iglo Group, a UK 
based leader in frozen food. Age 57.
Michael P Wareing 
a, n, t
 
Non Executive Director
Appointment and election
Appointed with effect from 1 October 2009. 
Standing for election in 2009.
Experience 
Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive 
of KPMG from 2005 until he retired in 
September 2009, having previously been 
Chief Executive of KPMG's Europe, Middle 
East and Africa region. Joining KPMG in 
1973, he worked in a variety of roles, as 
both advising major plc clients, including 
the audit partner, and running a large global 
organisation in his own right. Throughout 
his career Mr Wareing has been closely 
involved with a number of charities/public 
bodies, including his appointment in 2007 
as the Prime Minister's Special Envoy 
for the reconstruction of Southern Iraq 
and Chairman of the Basra Development 
Commission. He is Chairman of CSR 360 
and is also a Board member of Business 
in the Community and Business Action on 
Homelessness. Age 55.
Appointments since 31 July 2009 52 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance. It recognises that it is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for good governance, to 
facilitate efﬁ cient and effective management in order to deliver 
shareholder value over the long term, within appropriately 
established risk parameters. The principal governance rules 
applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock 
Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the “Code”), as adopted by the Financial 
Reporting Council (www.frc.org.uk/corporate) and most 
recently revised in June 2008. This report, together with the 
Directors’ report and the Remuneration report, describes 
how the Board applied the principles of good governance, as 
contained in section 1 of the Code, and seeks to demonstrate 
how those principles have been applied, and continue to be 
applied, during the year under review.
The Board
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an 
ad hoc basis as required by time critical business needs. 
During the year, the Company held additional Board and 
Board Committee meetings principally to consider and 
approve the technical aspects of the share placing and rights 
issue which was completed in April 2009; further details of this 
transaction are on pages 5 and 6. The Board’s primary role is 
to provide effective and entrepreneurial leadership necessary 
to enable the Group’s business objectives to be met and to 
review the overall strategic development of the Group as a 
whole. It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its 
decision while day-to-day operational decisions are managed 
by the Executive Committee, as referred to on page 54.
Board composition
As at 31 July 2009, the Board of Directors was made up of 
nine members consisting of the Chairman, four Executive 
Directors and four Non Executive Directors. The Chairman 
and the Non Executive Directors are each considered by the 
Board to be independent of management and free of any 
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement including the Chairman, 
despite the longevity of his tenure on the Board. The Board 
considers that each of the Non Executive Directors brings his 
own senior level of experience and expertise. In furtherance 
of the Board’s objective to maintain the strength and breadth 
of expertise and experience on the Board, two additional 
Non Executive Directors will join the Board during the next 
ﬁ nancial year. Alain Le Goff has been appointed with effect 
from 1 September 2009 and Michael Wareing with effect from 
1 October 2009. Additionally, Mr Wareing will take over from 
Mr Murray as chairman of the Audit Committee with effect 
from 1 January 2010. Biographical details of the Directors 
currently in ofﬁ ce, as well as for the two new appointments, 
are shown on pages 50 and 51. The Company’s policy 
relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of 
both the Executive and Non Executive Directors is detailed 
in the Remuneration report on pages 62 and 66. The 
distinct roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are 
acknowledged, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
Although now permitted under the Code, the Chairman has 
conﬁ rmed that he does not chair any other board of directors 
in the FTSE 100. Gareth Davis is the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director. His role includes being available for 
approach or representation from investors and shareholders, 
where communication through the Chairman or the Executive 
Directors may not seem appropriate. The Nominations 
Committee, as well as the Board as a whole, considers 
succession planning and the appropriate composition 
of the Board.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one-third 
of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each 
Director will seek re-election by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting at least once every three years. Additionally, 
new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the 
ﬁ rst opportunity after their appointment. It is Board policy that 
Non Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial 
term of three years, which is then reviewed and extended for 
up to a further two three-year periods. It is also Board policy 
that Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the 
Board for more than nine years and that, in cases where it is 
proposed to exceed this period, the Director concerned will 
retire annually and offer himself for re-election. Details of the 
Directors seeking election and re-election at the 2009 Annual 
General Meeting are given below and in the Notice of Meeting.
Directors
Brief particulars of the Directors in ofﬁ ce at the date of this 
report are listed on pages 50 and 51. The Directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the 2009 Annual General 
Meeting are Gareth Davis, Frank Roach and Nigel Stein. John 
Whybrow, having served on the Board for over nine years, is 
also standing for re-election. Each of these Directors, following 
a full performance evaluation during the year, continues to be 
considered by the Board to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to his respective role. In addition, following their 
respective Board appointments during the year, Ian Meakins, 
Alain Le Goff and Michael Wareing will each be standing 
for election.
Board procedures and responsibilities
A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion 
by the Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved 
and other key issues are considered at appropriate times. 
The Board met 12 times during the year and Director 
attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on 
page 56. Together with the Group Chief Executive and the 
Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board 
is kept properly informed and is consulted on all matters 
reserved to it. Board papers and other information are 
delivered at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed 
in advance of meetings to ensure that they are provided 
with sufﬁ cient resources to undertake their duties. 
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if 
deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties. 
This is in addition to the direct access that every Director has 
to the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate 
governance and compliance is implemented throughout 
the Group. 
Following their appointment, formal comprehensive 
and tailored induction is offered to all Directors. 
This is supplemented by meetings, as required, with major 
shareholders, visits to key locations within the Group and 
meetings with members of the Executive Committee and 
other key senior executives. Meetings led by the Senior 
Independent Director between the Non Executive Directors, 
Corporate governance report
Including the report of the Audit Committee Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 53 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
both with and without the presence of the Chairman and the 
Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Board’s annual 
timetable. The Board has also arranged to hold at least two 
Board meetings each year at operating locations to help all 
Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business, 
whilst also providing senior managers from across the Group 
the opportunity to present to the Board and to meet the 
Directors on more informal occasions. 
Board evaluation
During the year, the Board conducted a full evaluation of its 
own performance and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors, with the assistance of an external facilitator. 
The evaluation was carried out to assess the quality of the 
Board’s decision-making, its overall contribution and value to 
the long-term beneﬁ t of the Company, and to its preparation 
for future challenges.
The facilitator carried out the evaluation process using a 
combination of comprehensive questionnaires, one-to-one 
interviews, observation of Board proceedings and a review 
of relevant Board and Committee papers. A consolidated 
report detailing the outcome of the evaluation exercise was 
prepared by the facilitator and presented to the Board for 
review and consideration. The evaluation report concluded 
that the Board, in comparison with other FTSE companies, 
rates highly in its effectiveness and in its engagement with 
and contribution to the business. A number of actions and 
improvements were identiﬁ ed for the medium to long term, 
including a recommendation to continue to address internal 
and external changes which could affect the business.
The Board and its Committees will continue to critically review 
their procedures, effectiveness and development throughout 
the year ahead and the Chairman has reiterated that should 
any Director have any concerns or observations which they 
wished to raise, these should be notiﬁ ed to him directly or to 
the Company Secretary, to be addressed appropriately. 
As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors 
are encouraged to take up an external non executive position 
on the board of a non-competitor company, for which they 
may retain payments received in respect of such appointment. 
In order to avoid any conﬂ ict of interest, all appointments 
are subject to the Board’s approval and, generally, outside 
appointments for Executive Directors are limited to one 
company board. The Board monitors the extent of Directors’ 
other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board 
is not compromised. Details of external directorships and any 
fees retained are shown on page 72.
Indemnities
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
the Company has always indemniﬁ ed its Directors to the 
maximum extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their ofﬁ ce. Qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions (as deﬁ ned in section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) have been granted to all Directors 
in ofﬁ ce and to the Company Secretary and these remain 
in force as at the date of this report. The Company has 
also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect 
of legal action against its Directors and Ofﬁ cers. Neither 
the Company’s indemnity nor insurance would provide any 
coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have 
acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Board committees
The formal terms of reference for the Board committees, 
approved by the Board and complying with the Code to 
assist in the discharge of its duties, are available from the 
Company Secretary and can also be found on the Company’s 
website at www.wolseley.com. Membership and activities of 
the various committees are summarised below. The Group 
Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a 
matter for the Board as a whole, acts as secretary to all 
Board committees.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Duff, 
Murray, Stein and Whybrow, who chairs the Committee. 
Messrs Le Goff and Wareing became members of the 
Committee on their respective dates of appointment. 
Mr Whybrow would not chair the Committee or attend if it 
were to consider the appointment of a successor Chairman. 
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and its committees and makes recommendations 
with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, 
both in the identiﬁ cation and nomination of new Directors 
and the continuation of existing Directors in ofﬁ ce. 
The Committee retains external search consultants as 
appropriate, as was the case for the new appointments to 
the Board as noted on page 52. The Committee also advises 
the Board on succession planning for Board appointments 
although the Board itself has overall responsibility for 
succession generally. The Committee meets as required 
and met six times during the year ending 31 July 2009. 
The matters discussed included the change of 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, the appointment of two additional 
Non Executive Directors to the Board and changes to 
Committee membership. During the year, the Committee 
reviewed its terms of reference.
Remuneration Committee
The Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein and Duff, 
who chairs the Committee, all of whom are considered 
independent within the deﬁ nition set out in the Code. 
Mr Whybrow stepped down from the Committee during 
the year. Whilst the Committee continues to consider 
Mr Whybrow as independent, it recognised that the length 
of his concurrent service on the Board with an Executive 
Director may appear to some observers to be inconsistent 
with that independence. The Committee met ﬁ ve times during 
the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in 
the table on page 56. The Committee has delegated authority 
to deal, on behalf of the Board, with all remuneration matters, 
including pension entitlements and any compensation 
payments. It is responsible for setting the remuneration of 
the Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary 
in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by the 
Board. It is also responsible for determining the fees of the 
Chairman and for monitoring and approving the remuneration 
policy in relation to senior management below Board level. 
The Committee prepares, for the Board’s approval, the 
Remuneration report, which is presented to shareholders at 
each Annual General Meeting. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and updated its 
terms of reference. The chairman of the Committee attends 
the Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions 
shareholders may raise on the Committee’s activities.  54 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Executive Committee
The Executive Directors of the Company together with 
the Group Chief Information Ofﬁ cer, the Director of Group 
Strategy and Investor Relations, the Group HR Director and 
the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, meet at 
least eight times each year, usually prior to Board meetings. 
The Committee addresses operational business issues 
and is responsible for implementing strategy and Group 
policies, day-to-day management and monitoring business 
performance.
Treasury Committee
The Committee currently consists of the Group Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, who chairs the 
Committee, and the Group Treasurer. Mr Wareing will join the 
Committee following his appointment on 1 October 2009. 
Mr Harding, the Director of Group Strategy and Investor 
Relations, will also join the Committee on that date. 
The Committee’s role is to consider treasury policy, 
including ﬁ nancial structures and investments, tax strategy 
and hedging policies and certain transactions on behalf of 
the Group, within a framework delegated by the Board.
Disclosure Committee
The Committee consists of the Chairman, the Group 
Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, who chairs the 
Committee, the Director of Communications and the Group 
Company Secretary and General Counsel. The Committee 
meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public 
announcements of the Company and, in particular, the 
Company’s obligations under the Listing and Disclosure Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority. The Committee also assists in 
the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of the 
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight 
responsibilities assigned to it by the Board. It reports regularly 
to the Board on compliance in relation to the business 
activities for which it has responsibility within its terms of 
reference. 
The Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray, 
who chairs the Committee, all of whom are independent 
Non Executive Directors. The Committee’s membership is 
reviewed by the Nominations Committee and by Mr Murray 
at regular intervals. Members of the Committee are appointed 
by the Board following recommendations by the Nominations 
Committee. On his appointment on 1 October 2009, 
Mr Wareing will join the Committee and will then succeed 
Mr Murray, who will stand down after eight years, as 
Committee chairman with effect from 1 January 2010. 
Mr Murray will remain a member of the Committee until his 
retirement from the Board in September 2010.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant ﬁ nancial 
experience at a senior executive level; the expertise and 
experience of the members of the Committee are summarised 
on pages 50 and 51. The Board considers that each member 
of the Committee is independent within the deﬁ nition set out in 
the Code. In addition, Mr Stein (having been until September 
2007 Finance Director of GKN plc) and Mr Wareing (who was 
International Chief Executive of KPMG until his retirement 
in September 2009) provide the Board with the assurance 
it requires that the Committee has at least one member 
with signiﬁ cant, recent and relevant ﬁ nancial experience, as 
required by the Code. All members of the Committee receive 
appropriate induction, which is in addition to the induction 
which all new Directors receive and includes an overview of 
the business, its ﬁ nancial dynamics and risks. Members of the 
Committee may undertake ongoing training as required. 
Audit Committee members are expected to have an 
understanding of the following areas:
•  the principles of, contents of and developments in ﬁ nancial 
reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and 
statements of recommended practice and, in particular, the 
appropriateness of the Company’s accounting policies and 
integrity of the ﬁ nancial statements; 
•  the Company’s wider corporate policies and its ﬁ nancing; 
and 
•  the Company’s systems of internal control and matters that 
require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts 
and key ﬁ gures as well as the role of internal and external 
auditors. 
The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its 
agenda is linked to events in the Company’ s ﬁ nancial calendar. 
The agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of 
the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in 
addition to the regular items. Members’ attendance at the 
meetings held during the year is set out in the table on page 56. 
The Committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, the Director of 
Group Strategy and Investor Relations and the Head of 
Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the 
Company’s external auditors, to attend each meeting and 
receive its papers, although it reserves part of each meeting 
for discussions without the invitees present. Other senior 
executives are invited to present such reports as are required 
for the Committee to discharge its duties. The Audit 
Committee members meet the Head of Internal Audit 
and the external auditors without the presence of executive 
management at the end of each meeting. The chairman of 
the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the 
Board on the key issues covered by the Committee and the 
Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting. 
The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might 
be raised on the Committee’s activities. 
The Committee assists the Board to fulﬁ l its responsibilities 
related to external ﬁ nancial reporting and associated 
announcements. During the year, the matters reviewed, either 
as a committee or subsequently by the Board, included: 
•  the Half Year and Full Year ﬁ nancial statements, including the 
requirements for ﬁ nancial reporting;
•  the Half Year results and Annual Final results 
announcements made to the London Stock Exchange;
•  the Company’s Trading and Interim Management 
Statements and, where practicable, all proposed 
announcements to be made by the Company to the 
extent that they contained material ﬁ nancial information;
•  the documentation relating to the capital reorganisation, 
share placing and rights issue;
•  accounting and auditing issues;
•  changes proposed to the Company’s policies and practices;
•  monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function and reviewing the effectiveness and continued 
independence of the external auditor;
Corporate governance report continued Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 55 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
•  litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including 
contingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance 
with statutory tax obligations;
•  fraud reports and the operation of the Company’s whistle-
blowing policy; 
• the Company’s risk management process; and
•  the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control 
procedures.
The Committee is also responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Company’s policy 
on external audit and the Committee reserves oversight 
responsibility for monitoring independence, objectivity and 
compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
The Committee recommends the appointment and 
reappointment of the Company’s external auditors and 
annually reviews a formal letter provided by the external 
auditors conﬁ rming their independence and objectivity 
within the context of applicable regulatory requirements 
and professional standards.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the Company’s 
auditors for many years. The Committee is satisﬁ ed that 
their effectiveness and independence has not considered it 
necessary to require an independent tender process. To help 
reach this conclusion, an exercise was recently carried out, 
which included cost comparisons, to assure the Committee 
that the auditors continue to be cost-effective.
The Committee monitors the rotation of key partners within 
the external auditors from time to time in accordance with 
UK regulations. The Committee also scrutinises all proposals 
for non-audit work which is to be performed by the external 
auditors for the Company, to ensure that the provision of 
those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the 
external auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not 
impair their objectivity or independence. Under the policy, the 
external auditors cannot be engaged to perform any of the 
following services: 
•  book-keeping services related to accounting records or 
ﬁ nancial statements;
• design and implementation of ﬁ nancial information systems;
•  appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and 
contributions in kind reports;
•  actuarial services;
• internal audit outsourcing services;
• management functions including human resources;
•  broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking 
services; or
• legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
The policy requires pre-approval by the Committee of any 
non-audit work subject to maximum budget levels. 
The external auditors provide audit-related services such 
as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities 
relating to shareholder or other circulars. The external auditors 
report to the Committee any material departures from 
Group accounting policies and procedures that they identify 
during the course of their audit work. Within the constraints 
of applicable UK Ethical Standards, the external auditors 
undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on 
tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Group’s 
business. The provision of non-audit services within such 
constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-
case basis so that the best-placed adviser is retained. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of 
the external auditors, which included receiving responses from 
each of the Group’s operating companies and considered 
whether the agreed audit plan had been fulﬁ lled and the 
reasons for any variation from the plan. The Committee 
also considered the external auditors’ robustness and the 
degree to which the external auditors were able to assess 
key accounting and audit judgements. In accordance with 
its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, 
areas of responsibility and scope of the audit (including 
schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters) as 
set out in the external auditors’ engagement letter; the overall 
work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the cost-
effectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors’ remuneration 
and performance; any issues which arose during the course 
of the audit and their resolution; key accounting and audit 
judgements; errors identiﬁ ed during the audit; and the 
recommendations made to management by the auditors 
and management’s response.
The total fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers in the year 
ended 31 July 2009 were £13.4 million (2008: £9.2 million), 
of which £8.5 million (2008: £5.0 million) related to non-audit 
work. £2.8 million of the non-audit work fees were pursuant to 
work required in relation to the share placing and rights issue. 
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year 
ended 31 July 2009 can be found in note 3 to the ﬁ nancial 
statements on page 91.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function, including its terms of reference, 
audit plans, general performance and its relationship with 
the external auditors. Throughout the year, the Committee 
reviewed the internal audit function’s plans and its 
achievements against such plans. The Committee considered 
the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit 
function and considered the adequacy of management’s 
response to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve 
any such matters. The Committee carried out its annual 
review to consider the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England & Wales and the Institute of Internal 
Auditors – UK.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal control systems, accounting policies 
and practices, standards of risk management and risk 
management procedures and compliance controls as well 
as the Company’s statements on internal controls before 
they are agreed by the Board for each year’s Annual Report. 
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control and 
for the identiﬁ cation and management of business risk.
The Company’s whistle-blowing policy, which is an extension 
of the Group-wide Code of Ethics, gives details of the 
international conﬁ dential telephone reporting hotlines which 
are operated on behalf of the Company by an independent 
third party. The hotlines are a conﬁ dential means for 
employees to notify any concerns about actual or potential 
breaches of law or company policy, including in relation to 
accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and 
related matters. All matters reported are investigated and 
reported to the Committee. Statistics on the volume and 
general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the 
Committee on an annual basis. A copy of the Group’s 
Code of Ethics is available on the Company’s website at 
www.wolseley.com. 56 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Meetings attendance
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees held during the year:
Number of meetings held 
during the year to 31 July 2009 Board
Meetings
eligible to
attend
Audit
Committee
Meetings
eligible to
attend
Remuneration
Committee
Meetings 
eligible to
attend
Nominations
Committee
Meetings
eligible to
attend
G Davis 11 (12) 4 (5) 5 (5) 6 (6)
A J Duff 9 (12) 5
a
(5) 6 (6)
C A S Hornsby 11 (11)
R H Marchbank 12 (12)
I K Meakins 1 (1)
J I K Murray 11 (12) 5
a
(5) 5 (6)
F W Roach 12 (12)
N M Stein 10 (12) 5 (5) 5 (5) 5 (6)
S P Webster 12 (12)
J W Whybrow 12
a
(12) 2
b
(2) 6
a
(6)
a Chairman. 
b Mr Whybrow stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in March 2009.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee. Additional meetings were convened during the year 
at relatively short notice in relation to the share placing and rights issue. Owing to prior overseas business commitments which could not be re-scheduled at short 
notice, some Directors were not able to attend certain of those meetings.
Corporate governance report continued
Each year the Committee critically reviews its own 
performance and considers where improvements can be 
made. This year, the performance of the Committee was also 
evaluated in detail as part of the independent performance 
review, as referred to on page 53. The Committee’s terms of 
reference were reviewed and updated during the year.
Internal audit
The internal audit function is fully independent of the day-to-
day operations of the Group. It is involved in the assessment 
of the quality of risk management and internal control 
and helps to promote and further develop effective risk 
management within the businesses. Certain internal audit 
assignments (such as those requiring specialist expertise) 
continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal Audit 
to KPMG LLP as required. A policy has been established 
regarding the recruitment of staff from both KPMG LLP and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . The Head of Internal Audit 
attends all Audit Committee meetings in addition to having 
regular meetings with the chairman of that Committee. 
The Audit Committee reviews key performance indicators 
relating to the activity of the department.
Internal control
In a decentralised Group, where local management has 
considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, 
a well designed system of internal control is necessary to 
safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Company’s 
assets. The Directors have overall responsibility for the 
Group’s systems of internal control and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. In accordance with the guidance set out in 
the Turnbull Report “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code”, an ongoing process has been 
established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks 
faced by the Group, including reputational risk, and this has 
been in place for the full ﬁ nancial year and up to the date on 
which the ﬁ nancial statements were approved and is regularly 
reviewed by the Board. 
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate 
business risk; safeguard the Group’s assets against material 
misstatement or loss; fairly report the Group’s performance 
and position; and to ensure compliance with relevant 
legislation, regulation and best practice, including that related 
to social, environmental and ethical matters. The systems 
provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss and are reviewed by the Board regularly 
to deal with changing circumstances.
Summaries of the key ﬁ nancial risks inherent in the Group’s 
business are given in the Performance review on pages 37 to 
38 and in note 29 on pages 110 to 114. Risk assessment and 
evaluation is an integral part of the Group’s annual planning 
cycle. Each business documents the strategic objectives and 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control 
and, as part of this review, each business area and function 
has been required to identify and document each signiﬁ cant 
risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented 
to manage, monitor and report to management on the 
effectiveness of actions taken. 
Group operating companies also submit risk management 
and internal control representation letters biannually to 
the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, with comments on the control 
environment within their operations. The Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer 
summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee 
and the Executive Committee. The chairman of the Audit 
Committee reports to the Board on any matters which have 
arisen from the Committee’s review of the way in which 
the risk management and internal control processes have 
been applied, or any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these 
procedures. These processes have been in place throughout 
the year ended 31 July 2009 and have continued to the date 
of this report. The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control for the year under review 
the principal control structures and processes in place across 
the Group are described in more detail below. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 57 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Control processes
The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives annually 
and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light 
of these. Control is exercised at Group, continental, cluster 
and subsidiary board level through monthly monitoring of 
performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts and cash 
targets and by regular visits to Group companies by the 
Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer and continental 
CEOs. The Board has formal procedures in place for the 
approval of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, with 
designated levels of authority, supported by post-investment 
review processes for major acquisitions or disposals and 
capital expenditure. The Board takes account of social, 
environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Group’s 
businesses when reviewing the risks faced by the Group. 
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have 
on the short- and long-term value of the Company.
Risk management
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, 
it has delegated responsibility for the risk management 
process and internal control programme to the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁ cer. The detailed review of the risk management process 
and internal control has been delegated to the Audit 
Committee. During the ﬁ nancial year, the risk management 
programme was improved throughout the Group, with the 
introduction of an upgraded risk assessment and reporting 
process. This provides a more consistent analysis of risks, a 
more effective means of ensuring accountability, and a more 
rigorous means of measuring responses, identifying key risks 
and reviewing risk mitigation plans. The management team 
of each Group company is responsible for risk management 
and internal control within its own business and for ensuring 
compliance with the Group’s policies and procedures. 
Each Group company has appointed a risk director whose 
primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local 
management with the Group’s risk management and internal 
control programme. Both the internal and external auditors 
have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group 
towards its risk management activities and the improvements 
made have also been taken into account so as to reinforce 
the Company’s internal control procedures. More information 
on the Group’s approach to risk management is set out on 
pages 29 to 33.
Compliance statement
The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 
of the Code for the period under review and has, throughout 
the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein. 
The Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , are 
required to review whether the above statement reﬂ ects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Code 
speciﬁ ed for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority and to report if it does not reﬂ ect such compliance. 
No such report has been made.
Substantial share interests
At the date of this report the Company had received 
notiﬁ cation of the following material shareholdings pursuant to 
the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules:
Name
Number of 
shares held 
(millions)
Percentage of 
issued voting
share capital
Axa S.A. 37.41 13.182
UBS Global Asset Management – 
Traditional
15.67 5.522
Legal & General Group Plc (L&G) 11.42 4.023
Communication with shareholders
The Company places considerable importance on 
communication with its shareholders, including its employee 
shareholders. The Company has regular dialogue with 
institutional shareholders and meetings with shareholder 
representatives and promotes communication with private 
shareholders through attendance at the Annual General 
Meeting. The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁ cer are closely involved in investor relations and a senior 
executive has day-to-day responsibility for such matters. 
The views of our major shareholders are reported to the Board 
by the Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer and by the Chairman and are 
discussed at its meetings. A key topic of discussion during 
the year was the Company’s capital raising transaction, which 
was successfully completed in April 2009, following approval 
by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 1 April 2009.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with ﬁ nancial 
analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by written 
guidelines to ensure the protection of sensitive information 
which could affect the Company’s share price and which has 
not already been made generally available to the Company’s 
shareholders. Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, 
with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and 
policies. The Chairman also ensures that the Board as a 
whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders 
and, although the Non Executive Directors are not formally 
asked, at present, to meet the Company’s shareholders, their 
attendance at presentations of the Annual Full and Half Year 
Results is encouraged.  58 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate governance report continued
The Group’s Half Year and Annual Final Results, as well as all 
announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are 
published on the Company’s website, www.wolseley.com. 
During the year, the Company issued regular updates to the 
market and these, together with copies of presentations to 
analysts and interviews with the Group Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer, are also posted on the Company’s 
website. The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all 
shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be 
accessed via the Company’s website at www.wolseley.com 
or via Shareview, an internet service offered by the Company’s 
Registrars, as detailed in Shareholder information on page 146.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all 
shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting 
and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be 
proposed at general meetings. All shareholders are invited 
to the Company’s Annual General Meeting, at which they 
have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and 
it is standard practice to have the Senior Independent 
Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees available to answer questions. 
Some questions may not be answered at the meeting, should 
they not be in the interests of the Company, involve the 
disclosure of conﬁ dential information or would not be to the 
good order of the meeting. The Chairman may also nominate 
a Company representative to answer a speciﬁ c question 
after the Annual General Meeting or refer the response to 
the Company’s website. The proxy votes received for and 
against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may 
be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the Notice 
of Meeting, are counted before the Annual General Meeting 
and the results are made available at the meeting after 
shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of 
hands. The results are also announced to the London Stock 
Exchange and are published on the Company’s website 
shortly after the meeting.
Annual General Meeting resolutions
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 18 November 2009, together with explanatory 
notes, appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which 
has been posted to each shareholder. This document is also 
available on the Company’s website at www.wolseley.com.
Directors’ responsibility 
statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration report and the ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁ nancial 
statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the 
Directors have elected to prepare the Group ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company ﬁ nancial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”) (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the ﬁ nancial statements 
unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
proﬁ t or loss of the Company and Group for that period. 
In preparing these ﬁ nancial statements, the Directors are 
required to: 
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
•  state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union 
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements respectively; and
•  prepare the Group and parent company ﬁ nancial statements 
on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁ nancial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure that the ﬁ nancial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of ﬁ nancial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are 
listed on pages 50 and 51, conﬁ rm that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
•  the Group ﬁ nancial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and 
loss of the Group; and
•  the Performance review contained in the Report of the 
Directors includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that it faces. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 59 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Other statutory information
Auditors and audit information
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are willing to continue as 
auditors of the Company and Resolution 10 in the Notice of 
Meeting concerning their reappointment, and Resolution 11 
concerning the determination of their remuneration, are to be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors in ofﬁ ce at the date of this report conﬁ rm 
that, so far as they are each aware, in respect of the 
consolidated ﬁ nancial statements for the ﬁ nancial year 
ended 31 July 2009, there is no relevant audit information of 
which PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are unaware and each 
Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken 
as a Director to be aware, in respect of the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements for the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 July 
2009, of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are aware of that information.
Share capital and voting rights
Following the completion of the corporate transaction in 
April 2009, as detailed on pages 5 and 146, there were 
283,839,366 fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in 
issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange as at 31 July 
2009. In addition, there were 886,988,540 deferred 24 pence 
shares outstanding at the year-end; such shares have no 
voting or dividend rights and are not able to be traded. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s 
ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Company’s 
Directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in 
the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. 
The Company also has a Level I American Depositary Receipt 
(“ADR”) programme in the USA for which the Bank of New 
York Mellon acts as Depositary. The ADRs are traded on the 
US over-the-counter market, where each ADR now represents 
one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary share. Further details are 
given on page 146. 
Restrictions on transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the 
Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in 
the Company. No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. The Company’s 
Articles of Association may be amended by a special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
CREST
The Company’s ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement 
system for stocks and shares.
Share options 
During the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 July 2009, options were 
exercised pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes 
resulting in the allotment of 5,649 ordinary 25 pence shares 
(prior to the capital reorganisation) and 3,034 ordinary 
10 pence shares. A further ﬁ ve ordinary 10 pence shares 
have been allotted under these schemes since the end 
of the ﬁ nancial year to the date of this report. Details of 
shares issued during the year are set out in note 33 to the 
ﬁ nancial statements.
Employee Beneﬁ t Trusts 
The Wolseley plc 2004 Overseas Employee Beneﬁ t Trust, 
the Wolseley plc 2004 Employee Beneﬁ t Trust and the 
Wolseley plc 2004 Directors’ Beneﬁ t Trust were established on 
5 October 2004 in connection with the Wolseley Share Option 
Plan 2003 and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive 
Scheme, details of which are set out in the Remuneration 
report on pages 69 to 71. The trustees of each of the trusts 
have waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares 
held by them. As part of the corporate transaction in April 
2009, as detailed on pages 5 and 146, the Wolseley plc 
Employee Beneﬁ t Trust, which held over six million ordinary 
shares of 25 pence each, accepted in full the rights available. 
Consequently, at the date of this report, the Trust now holds 
1,975,046 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Authority to issue shares
At the Annual General Meeting held in 2008, authority 
was given to the Directors to allot new 25 pence ordinary 
shares up to a nominal value of £34,503,353, equivalent 
to the authorised but unissued ordinary share capital at 
22 September 2008. At the General Meeting held in April 
2009 to approve the corporate transaction, further authority 
was given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence ordinary 
shares up to a nominal value of £20,604,321, in connection 
with one or more issues of relevant securities under the 
rights issue and, in addition, £8,700,000, equivalent to 87 
million 10 pence ordinary shares. The Directors will propose 
(Resolution 13 in the Notice of Meeting) to seek authority 
to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to converting 
securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£18,922,625, representing approximately two-thirds of the 
Company’s issued share capital as at 28 September 2009, 
of which 94,613,125 shares (representing approximately 
one-third of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital) may 
only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue. 
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the 
authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting to be held in 2010. 
The limited power granted to the Directors at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2008 to allot equity shares for cash other 
than pro rata to existing shareholders will expire at the 2009 
Annual General Meeting. Subject to the terms of the authority 
noted above, the Directors recommend (Resolution 14 in the 
Notice of Meeting) that they be empowered to allot equity 
securities, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 
2010. This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity 
securities for cash, in connection with an open offer to existing 
shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £1,419,196, being 5 per cent 
of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report. 
The Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary 
shares, other than pursuant to the Company’s employee 
share schemes and any share dividend alternatives. 
The Directors recommend that you vote in favour of 
Resolutions 13 and 14 to maintain the Company’s ﬂ exibility 
in relation to future share issues, including any issues 
to ﬁ nance business opportunities should appropriate 
circumstances arise. 60 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Other statutory information continued
Authority to purchase shares
In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the 
Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special 
resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
(Resolution 15 in the Notice of Meeting) to renew the 
Directors’ limited authority, last granted in 2008, to repurchase 
the Company’s ordinary shares in the market. The authority 
will be limited to a maximum of 28,300,000 ordinary shares 
(being approximately 10 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital at the date of this report) and sets the minimum 
and maximum prices which may be paid. The Directors 
will use this authority to purchase shares only after careful 
consideration, taking into account market conditions, other 
investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and 
the overall ﬁ nancial position of the Company. The authority 
will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond 
promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider 
such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per 
share and would be in the best interests of the Company. 
The Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) 
Regulations 2003 allow shares purchased by the Company 
to be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for 
cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes. 
The Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors 
currently intend that any shares which are purchased will 
be held in treasury. The authorities to be sought by each of 
Resolutions 14 and 15 are intended to apply equally to shares 
to be held by the Company as treasury shares and to the 
sale of treasury shares. The Directors consider it desirable for 
these general authorities to be available to provide ﬂ exibility in 
the management of the Company’s capital resources.
Change of control
The Company does not have agreements with any Director 
or Ofﬁ cer that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁ ce 
or employment resulting from a change of control following 
a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Company’s 
share plans may cause options and awards granted under 
such schemes to vest on a takeover. All of the Company’s 
share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of 
control. Outstanding options and awards would normally 
vest and become exercisable for a limited period of time 
upon a change of control following a takeover, reconstruction 
or winding-up of the Company (not being an internal 
organisation), subject at that time to rules concerning the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Donations
The Group’s charitable donations in 2009 totalled £1,555,000 
(2008: £1,591,000). 
At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, 
shareholders have passed a resolution, on a precautionary 
basis, to approve donations to political organisations and 
to incur political expenditure (as such terms are deﬁ ned 
in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006). The 
Board has repeatedly conﬁ rmed that it operates a policy of 
not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the 
ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention 
of changing that policy. The Directors propose to seek, once 
more, authority for the Group to make political donations and/
or incur political expenditure in respect of each of the heads 
identiﬁ ed in Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting in amounts 
not exceeding £125,000 in a total aggregate, which they 
might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under 
the terms of the Companies Act 2006 and which would not 
amount to “donations” in the ordinary sense of the word. The 
authority sought by Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting will 
last until the Company’s next Annual General Meeting.
Creditor payment policy
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms 
and conditions of trading with their suppliers. It is the Group’s 
policy that payments to suppliers are made within agreed 
terms and are, where applicable, consistent with the UK 
Government backed Better Payment Practice Code. Copies 
of this Code can be obtained from the Company Secretary 
at the Company’s registered ofﬁ ce. At 31 July 2009, the 
Company had no trade creditors (2008: nil). The amount 
of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2009 was 
equivalent to 65 days (2008: 58 days) of trade purchases. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 61 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Employee communication and involvement
The Group places particular importance on involving its 
employees; keeping them regularly informed through informal 
bulletins, such as its management magazine “Directions” and 
other in-house publications, meetings and the Company’s 
intranet, on matters affecting them as employees and 
on the issues affecting their performance. A European 
Works Council (“EWC”) has been operating since 1996 to 
provide a forum for informing and consulting Europe-based 
employees on such matters as signiﬁ cant developments in the 
Group’s operations, management’s plans and expectations, 
organisational changes within the Group and also for 
employee representatives to consult Group management 
about concerns over any aspect of the Group’s operations. 
At the date of this report, there were 27 EWC representatives 
of which 21 were employee representatives and six were 
management representatives. Employee representatives are 
appointed from each European country in which Wolseley 
operates, with more than one employee representative 
appointed from the UK, France and Denmark. All employees 
are offered a range of beneﬁ ts depending on their local 
environment and are encouraged to become shareholders 
in the Company, where possible, through participation in the 
Company’s share schemes.
UK pension schemes
During the year the Company consulted employees on 
changes to its pension arrangements. The following 
changes have been made to the Wolseley Group pension 
arrangements for future pension built up from 1 June 2009:
•  with effect from 31 May 2009, the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes 
of the Wolseley Group Retirement Beneﬁ ts Plan and the 
William Wilson Group Pension Scheme were closed to new 
members;
•  Final Pensionable Salary for the Wolseley Group Retirement 
Beneﬁ ts Plan and the William Wilson Group Pension 
Scheme for service from 1 June 2009 will be based on the 
average of the last ﬁ ve years’ pensionable salary prior to 
retirement. Pension entitlement built up to 31 May 2009 
will remain based on pensionable salary in the ﬁ nal year of 
employment. The same changes to ﬁ nal pensionable salary 
will be made to the Brooks Belfast Retirement Beneﬁ ts 
Scheme, however, the effective date will be 1 July 2009. 
The beneﬁ ts accrued prior to the effective date are 
not affected; 
•  the pension payable to a member’s spouse for the Wolseley 
Group Retirement Beneﬁ ts Plan will be 50 per cent of the 
member’s pension. Pension accrued to 31 May 2009 is not 
affected by this change; and 
•  the Wolseley Group Deﬁ ned Contribution Plan has been 
created for Wolseley employees based in the UK. 
All employees recruited from 1 June 2009 will be offered 
participation in this plan. In addition, employees who were 
in existing deﬁ ned contribution arrangements within the 
Wolseley Group, transferred to the Wolseley Group Deﬁ ned 
Contribution Plan from this date. 
The Wolseley Group Deﬁ ned Contribution Plan is a 
trust-based deﬁ ned contribution pension scheme with 
three Company nominated trustees, one of whom is an 
independent trustee and two who are UK-based employees 
of the Group. In addition, there are three member nominated 
trustees, which are in the process of being selected. 
The chairman of the trustees is Wayne Phelan of PS 
Independent Trustees Limited. 
The principal UK deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme, which is now 
closed to new entrants, has one corporate and two individual 
trustees. The chairman of the trustees is David Tucker and, 
save for an independent trustee, all of the other trustees 
and trustee directors are UK-based employees or former 
employees of the Group. The other main UK deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
scheme provides beneﬁ ts for employees of the William Wilson 
Group, which has, with effect from July 2008, three member 
nominated trustees and three Company-nominated trustees. 
The chairman of the trustees is Ian Percy CBE and all of the 
other trustees are UK-based employees of the William Wilson 
Group or of the Company. Permanent employees outside the 
UK are offered membership of their employing companies’ 
pension arrangements.
Employment policies
The Group remains committed to equality of opportunity 
in all of its employment practices. It is Group policy that 
the selection of employees for training, development and 
promotion should be determined solely on their skills, 
attributes and other requirements which are relevant to the 
job and which are in accordance with the laws of the country 
concerned. Priority is given to the training of employees 
and the development of their skills is of prime importance. 
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with 
regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the 
function required. Arrangements to enable disabled people to 
carry out the function required will be made if it is reasonable 
to do so. An employee becoming disabled would, where 
appropriate, be offered retraining. The Group continues 
to operate on a largely decentralised basis; this provides 
encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial ﬂ air, 
balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a 
small head ofﬁ ce team. Local management is responsible 
for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for 
ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in 
decision-making.
On behalf of the Board
Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 
28 September 2009  62 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Dear Shareholder
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) reviewed 
the packages of the senior executives during the year, 
taking account of the current economic environment. 
To ensure the appropriateness of reward in the current 
challenging trading environment, the Committee 
recommended, and it was agreed, that there would be 
no increase in the base salaries for the current Executive 
Directors in the August 2009 review, and that, despite 
meeting some of the targets set at the start of the year, 
no bonuses would be paid in respect of 2008/9. Non 
Executive Directors’ fees will also remain unchanged.
In addition, the Committee has made the following 
changes to remuneration:
•  the face value of executive share options and long-term 
share incentive awards has been scaled back to reﬂ ect 
current share price volatility;
•  a minimum standard of Company ﬁ nancial performance 
will be required for each Executive to be considered 
eligible for payment for strategic personal objectives; and
•  in order to publicly demonstrate conﬁ dence in the long-
term performance of the Company, every member of the 
Board will contribute between 10–15 per cent of their 
base salary or fees to invest in Wolseley plc shares during 
the course of this forthcoming ﬁ nancial year.
The Committee believes that these changes will further 
strengthen the link between performance and reward.
The Committee continues to appreciate the dialogue and 
feedback it receives from investors and it hopes to receive 
your support at the AGM on 18 November 2009.
Andrew J Duff Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report
For the year ended 31 July 2009
Remuneration Committee
The Board sets the Company’s remuneration policy. 
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board, within its agreed terms of reference (available 
on the Company’s website, www.wolseley.com) on the 
Company’s framework of executive remuneration and its cost. 
It also determines, with agreement of the Board, speciﬁ c 
remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, 
the Chairman, the Company Secretary and members of 
the Executive Committee. The Chairman and the Executive 
Directors of the Board determine the remuneration of the 
Non Executive Directors. The Committee is also responsible 
for the Company’s share incentive schemes for all employees.
The current members of the Committee, as detailed on 
page 53, consist of three Non Executive Directors, all of whom 
are independent within the deﬁ nition set out in the Code. 
During the year, the Chairman stepped down as a member 
of the Committee. The Committee continues to consider 
Mr Whybrow as independent. The Company Secretary acts 
as its secretary. The Group Chief Executive, the Chairman 
and the Group HR Director are normally invited to attend the 
meetings of the Committee to respond to speciﬁ c questions 
raised by members of the Committee. This speciﬁ cally 
excludes such matters concerning the details of and any 
discussions relating to their own remuneration. To inform 
decisions on executive remuneration, the Committee sources 
detailed external research on market data and trends from 
experienced independent consultants. Since 2003, the 
Committee has sought external advice from Hewitt New 
Bridge Street, who provide no other services to the Company.
The Committee met ﬁ ve times during the year, at which all 
eligible Committee members were in attendance. At these 
meetings, amongst other items, the Committee considered:
•  review of remuneration policy, for both Executive Directors 
and Executive Committee members;
•  determination of bonus performance criteria and a review of 
performance;
•  operation and award levels under the long-term incentive 
plan and executive share option scheme;
•  the suitability and appropriateness of the executive share 
option scheme ﬁ ve years after its approval by shareholders 
and awards in relation to all employee share plans; and
•  Mr Hornsby’s severance terms from the Company and 
the terms of the service agreement and remuneration and 
beneﬁ ts for Mr Meakins as his successor as Group Chief 
Executive.
The Remuneration report has been received and adopted by 
shareholders at each of the Annual General Meetings held 
since 2003 and shareholders will again be invited to receive 
and adopt this report at the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 18 November 2009.
Introduction
This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 (the “Act”) and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority. Furthermore, the Board has applied the principles 
of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration 
contained within the Combined Code.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s 
shareholders on the audited information within this report and 
to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report 
have been prepared in accordance with the Act. The auditors’ 
opinion is set out on page 129 and those aspects of the 
report which have been subject to audit are clearly marked. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 63 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Policy on Directors’ remuneration
Executive Directors
The Company’s policy continues to be to provide 
remuneration packages that fairly reward Executive Directors 
for the contribution they make to the business, taking into 
account the size and complexity of the Group’s operations 
and the need to attract, retain and motivate executives of 
the highest quality. Remuneration packages comprise salary, 
performance bonuses, share options, long-term incentive 
awards, beneﬁ ts in kind and retirement beneﬁ t provisions. 
The Company takes fully into account all of these individual 
elements in adopting a total approach to remuneration.
The Company’s policy is that each of the packages should 
incorporate components linking individual and company 
performance, short- and long-term returns, as well as 
absolute and relative ﬁ nancial performance. None of the 
variable elements of remuneration are pensionable. 
These packages are designed to be broadly comparable with 
those offered by other similar international businesses and 
reﬂ ect competitive practices in the countries and markets 
in which the Executive Directors operate.
The Committee believes that the choice of performance 
measures for the Company’s incentive plans continues to 
be suitable and provides an appropriate mix and balance. 
The measures are earnings per share (“EPS”) for executive 
share options and total shareholder return (“TSR”) for long-
term incentive awards. The targets are felt to be demanding 
for the next three years and align executives’ interests with 
those of shareholders over this period.
The policy is designed to incentivise the Executive Directors 
to meet the Company’s ﬁ nancial and strategic objectives, 
such that a signiﬁ cant proportion of total remuneration is 
performance related. The Committee considers that the 
targets set for the different elements of performance related 
remuneration are appropriate and demanding in the context 
of the Company’s trading environment and the business 
challenges it faces.
The following chart shows total remuneration (salary, target 
and maximum amounts relating to bonus and the value of 
long-term incentive awards and executive share options 
granted during the ﬁ nancial year) for Executive Directors in 
ofﬁ ce during ﬁ nancial year 2008/9.
Non Executive Directors 
The remuneration of Non Executive Directors is made up 
of a basic fee plus an additional fee where a Non Executive 
Director acts as Chairman of either the Audit or Remuneration 
Committees or has been nominated as Senior Independent 
Director; details of these additional fees are listed below. 
Fees are reviewed from time to time by the Chairman and 
the Executive Directors of the Board. The Non Executive 
Directors have letters of engagement rather than service 
contracts and do not participate in any incentive plan, 
nor is any pension payable in respect of their services 
as Non Executive Directors. 
Additional fees
Audit Committee Chairman £16,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman £12,000
Senior Independent Director £10,000
The Board’s policy is that Non Executive Directors are 
normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is 
then reviewed and extended for a further three-year period. 
Appointments may be terminated upon six months’ notice by 
either party. There are no provisions for compensation in the 
event of termination. The terms and conditions of appointment 
of the Non Executive Directors are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered ofﬁ ce during normal business hours 
and at the Annual General Meeting.
Service agreements
The Executive Directors have service agreements with 
Wolseley plc, which are subject to a maximum of 12 months’ 
notice of termination if given by the Company and six months’ 
notice of termination if given by the Executive Director. 
Such notice periods reﬂ ect current market practice and the 
balance that should be struck between providing contractual 
protection to the Directors that is fair and the interests of 
shareholders. 
The date of each service agreement and the year in which 
each Executive Director was last re-elected are noted in the 
table below. There are no provisions in any service agreement 
for early termination payments and, in the event of early 
termination of any service agreement, the Committee will give 
full and proper consideration to mitigation, which should be 
taken into account for payable compensation.
Name of Director Date of service agreement Year of (re-)election
I K Meakins 13 July 2009 will stand in 2009 
R H Marchbank 18 March 2005 2008
F W Roach 27 February 2006 2006
S P Webster 25 September 2002 2008
Target
 
Breakdown of total remuneration
Maximum
Maximum: EPS growth of UK inflation plus 21 per cent and top decile TSR 
performance plus share price growth of 20 per cent pa. 
T arget: EPS growth of UK inflation plus 9 per cent and median TSR performance 
plus share price growth of 8 per cent pa. 
Assumptions
Base salary  
38.1%
Bonus  
38%
Options  
9.9%
LTIP  
14.1%
LTIP  
33.0%
Options  
28.4%
Bonus  
22.3%
Base salary  
16.3% 64 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Key elements of Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2008/09:
Element Objective Performance period Description Policy
Base salary To provide competitive 
base salary 
compensation to 
executives allowing the 
Company to attract and 
retain talented leaders.  
Annual Reviewed annually with 
effect from 1 August. 
Market-competitive base 
salaries are reviewed 
against suitable 
comparator companies 
based on size and 
sector and take into 
account business and 
personal performance, 
and local market 
conditions. 
The target salary is set 
at mid-market, with the 
opportunity to go above this 
level, if there is sustained 
individual high performance. 
Compensation provided should 
be commensurate with the 
executive’s contribution to the 
Company. The Committee 
intends to pay appropriately, 
based on skill, experience and 
performance achieved by the 
executive.
Annual bonus To ensure market 
competitive package 
and link total cash 
reward to achievement 
of Company business 
objectives.
Annual Maximum target ranges 
from 100% to 140% 
of base salary (differs 
by individual and 
geographical location). 
The achievement of budgeted 
and stretching ﬁ nancial goals 
linked to corporate proﬁ tability 
metrics and the delivery of 
personal goals linked to the 
Company’s overall strategic aims.
Pension To aid retention and 
reward long service.
Ongoing Maximum two-thirds 
of ﬁ nal salary based 
on service for Deﬁ ned 
Beneﬁ t Scheme 
or up to 32% for 
Deﬁ ned Contribution 
arrangements (differs 
by individual and 
geographical location). 
For UK remunerated Executives, 
the provision of a market 
competitive beneﬁ t for retirement. 
For US remunerated Executives, 
the vesting criteria for the Senior 
Executive Retirement Plan is 
related to age and service.
Long Term 
Incentive 
Scheme and 
2003 Executive 
Option Plan
To incentivise executives 
to achieve superior long-
term performance and 
commitment to the goals 
of the Group; to align 
shareholder interests with 
executives’; retention of 
key individuals.
3 years Maximum LTIS grant 
reduced from 150% 
to 125% of salary for 
ﬁ nancial year 2009/10.
Maximum option grant 
reduced from 300% 
to 230% of salary for 
ﬁ nancial year 2009/10. 
LTIS share awards are made 
annually to senior executives, 
other management and high 
performers. Vesting is conditional 
on Group TSR over the three year 
performance period, relative to a 
comparator group of principally 
FTSE 100 companies, excluding 
banks, telecommunications, IT 
and utility companies. 
Executive options are based 
on earnings per share growth 
targets over the same three-year 
performance period.
.
Remuneration report continued Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 65 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Executive Board changes
Prior to the annual review of remuneration, the Company 
announced on 30 June 2009 the appointment of Ian Meakins 
as Group Chief Executive with effect from 13 July 2009. 
The Committee agreed a package for Mr Meakins, which is 
considered to be competitive and appropriate to incentivise 
him to deliver the next phase of the Company’s strategy. 
This comprised an annual base salary of £775,000, 
a maximum annual bonus for 2009/10 of 120 per cent of 
base salary, total awards in 2009/10 of executive share 
options and long-term incentive awards of 230 per cent 
and 125 per cent of base salary respectively, and a cash 
allowance of 32 per cent of base salary in lieu of joining the 
Company pension scheme. 
The outgoing Group Chief Executive, Chip Hornsby, received 
the contractual severance terms of 12 months’ salary and 
beneﬁ ts. Under the respective share plan rules, all of his share 
options and long-term incentives lapsed. No bonus payment 
was made either for the ﬁ nancial year 2008/9 or his 12 month 
notice period. 
Salaries
Basic salaries are determined having regard to individual 
responsibility and performance and are benchmarked with 
market data which is derived from a group of companies 
selected on the basis of comparable size, geographic spread 
and business focus. Consideration is also given to general 
pay and employment conditions across the Group. The 
target salary is set at the mid-market, with the opportunity 
to go above this level, subject to sustained individual high 
performance. 
The approach on basic salary for new appointments, in 
particular internal promotions, is to progress towards the 
mid-market, once expertise and performance has been 
proven and sustained. The payment of salaries at this level 
is considered appropriate for the motivation and retention 
of the calibre of executive required to ensure the successful 
management of the Company in the challenging international 
business environment in which it operates. 
The Committee reviews the fees of the Chairman and the 
salaries of the Executive Directors annually, having sought 
the views of both the Chairman and the Group Chief 
Executive (other than in the case of their own remuneration). 
In recognition of the ﬁ nancial circumstances currently being 
faced by the Company, the Committee has agreed that 
base salaries for each Executive Director and the Executive 
Committee for the ﬁ nancial year commencing 1 August 2009 
should remain unchanged from the amounts paid from 
1 August 2008. The Board also agreed that the fees payable 
to the Non Executive Directors should also remain unchanged 
for the forthcoming ﬁ nancial year. The fees payable to the 
Chairman and Non Executive Directors and base salaries 
in respect of the Executive Directors for the ﬁ nancial year 
commencing on 1 August 2009 are therefore as follows: 
J W Whybrow £360,500; R H Marchbank $964,100; 
F W Roach $957,900; S P Webster £556,200 and, for 
each of the Non Executive Directors, £61,800 (exclusive 
of Committee fees). 
Emoluments (audited)
The emoluments for 2008/9 payable from 1 August 2008 for 
the Directors who served during the ﬁ nancial year are set out 
below. The totals received by Messrs Hornsby, Marchbank 
and Roach were paid in US dollars and have been translated 
into sterling at the exchange rate $1.5708:£1 (2008: $2:£1):
Directors’ 
remuneration
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Bonuses 
£000
Beneﬁ ts 
£000
2009 
Total 
£000
2008 
Total 
£000
Chairman
J W Whybrow 360.5 – – 360.5 350
Executive 
Directors
R H Marchbank
1
613.8 – 247.7 861.5 900
I K Meakins
2
44.8 – 15.2 60.0 –
F W Roach
3
609.8 – 30.9 640.7 685
S P Webster
4
556.2 – 232.0 784.2 906
Non Executive 
Directors
G Davis 71.8 – – 71.8 70
A J Duff 73.8 – – 73.8 72
J I K Murray 77.8 – – 77.8 76
N M Stein 61.8 – – 61.8 60
Former 
Director
C A S Hornsby
5
871.6 – 108.2 979.8 1,222
Total 3,341.9 – 634 3,971.9 4,341
Pensions to 
former Directors
––– 195 320
Pension 
contributions to 
money purchase 
plans
––– 467 359
Total ––– 662 679
1  Mr Marchbank elected to repay the 3 per cent increase received for ﬁ nancial 
year 2008/9 of $28,100 (£17,891). The actual salary paid during the year 
in $ is therefore unchanged from the ﬁ gure reported in the 2007/8 Report 
and Accounts, but is subject to exchange rate variances. £155,547 (2008: 
£187,050) of the ﬁ gure for beneﬁ ts relates to his relocation from the USA 
to the UK.
2  Mr Meakins was appointed to the Board with effect from 13 July 2009. 
£14,708 of the ﬁ gure for beneﬁ ts relates to a cash supplement in lieu of 
payments into the Company pension scheme.
3  The actual salary paid during the year in $ is unchanged from the ﬁ gure 
reported in the 2007/8 Report and Accounts, but is subject to exchange 
rate variances.
4  £196,339 (2008: £190,620) of the ﬁ gure for beneﬁ ts relates to a cash 
supplement in lieu of payments into the Funded Unapproved Retirement 
Beneﬁ t Scheme.
5.  Mr Hornsby stepped down from the Board with effect from 29 June 2009. 
This ﬁ gure represents his emoluments to that date. Payments of salary 
and beneﬁ ts to which he is entitled in connection with the cessation of his 
employment amount to $1,932,934, which will be paid during the course of 
ﬁ nancial year 2009/10, which includes the $298,700 pension contributions 
noted on page 67. 66 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Performance bonuses
Performance bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors 
are designed to encourage individual performance, corporate 
operating efﬁ ciencies and proﬁ table growth. Stretching targets 
are set for each element of the bonus, determined by the 
Committee each year, which also considers the levels of 
performance targets to be achieved for bonus payments to 
be made in the succeeding year. The annual bonus awards 
are based on a mix of demanding ﬁ nancial targets, derived 
from the Company’s historic performance, annual long-term 
strategic business plan and annual budget, as well as market 
expectations. 
For 2008/9, ﬁ nancial performance was measured equally 
by trading proﬁ t and cash ﬂ ow metrics. These elements 
accounted for 80 per cent of the potential bonus with the 
balance depending on speciﬁ c strategic personal objectives 
set for each Executive Director and member of the Executive 
Committee. Depending on their particular responsibilities and 
their performance, Executive Directors were eligible to receive 
up to 70 per cent for UK-based Directors and up to 110 per 
cent for US-based Directors, for on-target performance. 
The performance of the Executive Directors and other 
non-Board members of the Executive Committee during 
the year would normally have allowed for them to receive 
a bonus payment relating to performance against both 
ﬁ nancial and personal targets. However, in order to ensure the 
appropriateness of reward in the current challenging trading 
environment, the Committee determined that no bonuses 
should be paid for ﬁ nancial year 2008/9 to any Executive 
Director or member of the Executive Committee. The total 
bonus “earned”, but not paid, by the Executive Directors and 
the Executive Committee during the 2008/9 ﬁ nancial year, 
was an average of 56.1 per cent of salary.
For the year ending 31 July 2010, performance bonuses will 
be measured principally by trading proﬁ t and supported by 
cash ﬂ ow and formally linked to the achievement of strategic 
personal goals. The ﬁ nancial components will continue 
to account for 80 per cent of the bonus with the balance 
depending on speciﬁ c strategic personal objectives set for 
each Executive Director. A minimum standard of Company 
trading proﬁ t performance will be required for each executive 
to be considered eligible for payment for strategic personal 
objectives. 
The Committee has determined that the following 
percentages of base salary will be paid as bonus, subject to 
the achievement of the minimum, on-target and maximum 
levels of performance for each element (with the percentages 
increasing on a linear basis for achievement between 
each level):
Percentage of base salary payable on achievement of:
Minimum target On-target Maximum target
I K Meakins 80 100 120
R H Marchbank 40 70 100
F W Roach* 80 110 140
S P Webster 40 70 100
*US-based. 
Share purchases from salary 
For ﬁ nancial year commencing 1 August 2009, it was agreed, 
following recommendation by the Remuneration Committee, 
that the Group Chief Executive, the Chairman and the Non 
Executive Directors will have 15 per cent of base salary or fees 
withheld each month after tax has been paid in order to buy 
the equivalent value in the Company’s shares. Each Executive 
Director will be required to commit 10 per cent of his salary 
on the same basis. Share purchases will take place on a 
quarterly basis, on pre-determined dates during 2009/10. 
All shares purchased will count towards the share ownership 
requirements as noted on page 68.
Beneﬁ ts in kind
Beneﬁ ts in kind consist of car beneﬁ ts, healthcare insurance 
and, in the case of Mr Marchbank, expatriate living allowances 
following his relocation from the USA to the UK. In addition, 
to ensure that senior executives who are US citizens are not 
disadvantaged as a result of paying both UK and US taxes on 
their income, there is a mechanism of tax equalisation, which 
avoids the need to increase salaries to meet any additional 
tax burden.
Other senior executives
The non-Board members of the Executive Committee 
are senior executives whose roles are considered able to 
signiﬁ cantly inﬂ uence the ability of the Group to meet its 
strategic objectives. The Committee determines the level of 
remuneration for this group, based on proposals from the 
Group Chief Executive. Their total remuneration including 
salary and beneﬁ ts, actual bonus (which for the ﬁ nancial 
year 2008/9 was not paid) and the fair value of long-term 
incentives granted/awarded during the year ended 
31 July 2009 is summarised below:
Total remuneration 2008/9 
£000
Number in band 
(2007/8 in brackets*) 
401–500 2 (4)
501–600 1 (1)
601–700 1 (2)
* These ﬁ gures reﬂ ect changes made to the composition of the Executive 
Committee during ﬁ nancial year 2007/8. 
Remuneration report continued Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 67 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Pensions (audited)
Mr Webster, a UK citizen, participates in the Wolseley 
Group Retirement Beneﬁ ts Plan (the “Plan”). The Plan is a 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme and provides beneﬁ ts based on ﬁ nal 
pensionable salary. The Company makes contributions to 
the Plan based on the recommendation of the Plan actuary. 
Bonuses payable to Executive Directors are not pensionable. 
Mr Webster currently contributes 8 per cent per annum of his 
pensionable salary to the Plan.
Mr Webster is subject to the plan speciﬁ c earnings cap on 
his beneﬁ ts accrual, which for the Plan year 2008/9 was 
£117,600. The Company previously agreed to provide 
Mr Webster with beneﬁ ts which are broadly comparable with 
those that would have applied under the Plan had the cap not 
been introduced, which were provided for by payments into a 
Funded Unapproved Retirement Beneﬁ t Scheme (“FURBS”). 
Following the introduction of the Finance Act 2004, the 
FURBS was no longer a tax efﬁ cient vehicle to fund pension 
beneﬁ ts. Accordingly, since 6 April 2006, Mr Webster’s 
beneﬁ ts have been provided through the Plan and through a 
cash supplement which, together, are broadly comparable to 
those to which he would previously have been entitled. 
No further monies have been paid into the FURBS.
Mr Webster receives life cover up to the HM Revenue & 
Customs Lifetime Allowance under the Plan. A separate 
insurance policy, paid for by the Company, has been taken 
out to cover the excess above the Lifetime Allowance. 
The amount charged to the proﬁ t and loss account during 
the year in respect of his future obligation was £1,800 
(2008: £1,513). 
The changes to the UK pension schemes outlined on page 61 
have also been applied to Mr Webster’s beneﬁ ts.
The table below shows for Mr Webster, the amount of beneﬁ t 
accrued at the end of the year under the Group’s deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t scheme as if he had left service on 31 July 2009, the 
change in accrued beneﬁ t over the year, the transfer value 
at both the beginning and end of the year as well as the 
change in the transfer value over the year as required by the 
Companies Act 2006. The increase in transfer value ﬁ gures 
represents an obligation on the pension fund or the Company 
– they are not sums due or paid to the Director. The Listing 
Rules of the UK Listing Authority require additional disclosure 
of the change in accrued beneﬁ t net of inﬂ ation, and the 
transfer value of this change. These pension liabilities are 
calculated using the cash equivalent transfer value method 
prescribed in the Listing Rules.
Messrs Hornsby, Marchbank and Roach, who are US citizens, 
participated in the deﬁ ned contribution pension arrangements 
of Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. Messrs Marchbank and Roach 
received contributions at the level of 23 per cent of their base 
salary and Mr Hornsby at a level of 20 per cent until he left 
the Company on 29 June 2009. Bonus is not included in the 
calculation of Company pension contributions.
The following table shows those Executive Directors 
participating in deﬁ ned contribution pension plans and 
the cost of the Group’s contributions thereto during the 
ﬁ nancial year:
Group contributions to deﬁ ned contribution 
plans for Executive Directors
2009
$000*
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
C A S Hornsby (to 29 June 2009) 299 190 145
R H Marchbank 215 137 107
F W Roach 220 140 107
*Exchange rate used to convert the $ to £ over the year to 31 July 2009 is 1.5708.
During his 30 year career, Mr Hornsby participated in 
Ferguson Enterprise, Inc.’s Executive Retirement Plans, 
which included the Supplemental Executive Retirement 
Plan (“SERP”), pursuant to which the Company contributed 
funding for certain pension beneﬁ ts. In the accounts for the 
2006/7 and 2007/8 ﬁ nancial years, this funding was disclosed 
as £126,000 and £145,000 respectively. As at the date of 
his cessation of employment, the value of Mr Hornsby’s 
accumulated beneﬁ t under the SERP stood at $2,801,803 
(the “SERP retirement fund”). The SERP retirement fund 
had not vested at the date of cessation of employment. 
Recognising the longevity of Mr Hornsby’s service of in excess 
of 30 years, the Remuneration Committee determined to 
pay Mr Hornsby a lump sum pension payment equivalent to 
the accumulated SERP retirement fund that had accrued. A 
further contribution of $298,700 will be paid in the ﬁ nancial 
year 2009/10, representing the regular contribution to the 
SERP for his contractual notice period. After those payments 
have been made, the Company will not be liable to make any 
further payments in relation to Mr Hornsby’s pension.
Brossette, a French subsidiary undertaking, has a 
commitment to a former Director, who is a French citizen, to 
pay an annual pension of €231,123 (2008: €228,891), with 
a widow’s entitlement of 60 per cent, subject to an annual 
increase based on the agreed French pension index. The full 
actuarial cost of this arrangement was provided in previous 
years as part of Brossette’s ongoing pension obligations. 
The Company is guarantor of this future pension commitment 
which at 31 July 2009 was approximately £2.7 million (2008: 
£2.3 million). 
Pensions table
 Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules
Age as at 
31 July 
2009
Pension 
accumulated 
2009
£
Increase in 
pension 
2009
£
Transfer value
2009
£
Transfer value
2008
£
Increase in 
transfer value 
2009 net of 
contributions
£
Pension 
accumulated 
2009
£
Increase 
in pension 
2009 net of 
revaluation
£
Transfer value 
of the net of 
revaluation 
pension 
increase 
2009 net of 
contributions
£
S P Webster 56 61,727 6,847 1,199,033 916,883 272,621 61,727 4,103 70,235 
Notes:  Mr Webster is building up beneﬁ ts at the rate of 1/30ths of the earnings cap, payable from age 60. Mr Webster also has a FURBS to which no further 
contributions are payable and a cash allowance is paid. 68 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration report continued
Capital reorganisation and share issue
Following the capital reorganisation and share issue which was completed during April 2009, the Committee reviewed, 
in accordance with the rules of each of the Company’s share schemes, the appropriate adjustments to be made to 
reﬂ ect the dilutive effect of both transactions. The calculations were made in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs 
recommendations (“HMRC”). Such calculations were reviewed by the Company’s auditors, who performed speciﬁ c procedures 
to recalculate the adjustments made to outstanding awards, on the basis that the Directors of the Company deemed the 
adjustments to be fair and reasonable. 
After adjustments had been made to outstanding awards to reﬂ ect the capital reorganisation, a further adjustment was made 
using the theoretical ex-rights price calculation (“TERP”) as agreed with HMRC. All outstanding awards made under the 
Company’s share plans were multiplied by a TERP factor of 2.398177677 and the respective option prices and market prices 
at allocation were multiplied by a factor of 0.416983283.
These formulae were designed to minimise the effect of the capital reorganisation and the share issue upon outstanding awards 
and, subject to roundings, ensured that the overall value of outstanding awards was the same after adjustment.
The adjustments made to the share incentive awards granted to employees across the Group during the 2008/09 ﬁ nancial year, 
allowing for lapses of awards in accordance with the scheme rules, which occurred after the relevant dates of grant and prior to 
the capital reorganisation and share issue, are shown below:
Scheme
Date of grant/
award
Original 
number of 
share awards/
options granted
Original award/
option price 
(pence)
Number of 
adjusted awards
/options 
(outstanding in 
April 2009)
Adjusted award/
option price 
(pence)
Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme October 2008 3,315,432 287.25 782,014 1197.78
Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 October 2008 23,796,393 320 5,693,384 1334 
Savings Related Share Option Schemes 
(UK and Ireland)
April 2009 9,492,134 168 2,252,630 701 
Employee Share Purchase Plan April 2009 3,269,857 178 718,450 743 
Wolseley European Sharesave Plan April 2009 1,916,272 178 458,473 743 
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors in ofﬁ ce at 31 July 2009, and 
of their connected persons, in the ordinary shares of the 
Company at the following dates were: 
Ordinary shares 
of 25 pence 
each held at 
1 August 2008
Ordinary shares 
of 10 pence 
each held at 
21 April 2009 
following 
the capital 
reorganisation 
and share issue 
adjustments 
Ordinary shares 
of 10 pence 
each held at 
31 July 2009
and at the date 
of this report
G Davis 10,664 3,411 3,411
A J Duff 7,006 2,240 2,240
R H Marchbank 29,101 9,308 9,874
I K Meakins – – –
J I K Murray 10,000 3,200 3,200
F W Roach 42,420 13,570 13,570
N M Stein 10,500 3,360 3,360
S P Webster 60,784 19,449 19,449
J W Whybrow 85,284 27,289 27,289
As a result of the capital reorganisation which was completed 
on 2 April 2009, each of the Directors noted above now 
holds a number of deferred shares of 24 pence each. 
These deferred shares hold no value or voting rights and 
accordingly, have not been disclosed in the table above.
Director share ownership
A share ownership programme was introduced with effect 
from 1 August 2004. It is designed to encourage all Directors 
and members of the Executive Committee to build up a 
shareholding in value equivalent to the following levels:
Group Chief Executive 1.5 times basic salary 
Other Executive Directors 1 times basic salary 
Chairman and 
Non Executive Directors 
1 times annual fees
Executive Committee 
members 
0.5 times basic salary
For Executive Directors and members of the Executive 
Committee, share ownership may be achieved by retaining 
shares received as a result of participating in a Company 
share plan, after taking into account any shares sold to 
ﬁ nance option exercises or to pay a National Insurance or 
income tax liability or overseas equivalent. The programme 
speciﬁ cally excludes the need for executives to make a 
personal investment should awards not vest. Normally these 
levels of shareholding should be expected to be achieved 
within three to ﬁ ve years from the time the individual is 
included in the programme. In addition, shares purchased 
from salary as detailed on page 66, will count towards 
the necessary targets.The Committee has reviewed and 
noted the progress which has been made towards meeting 
these targets during the year. Directors’ current interest in 
shares are set out opposite. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 69 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Long-term incentives (audited)
The Company currently operates a long-term incentive plan 
under the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme 
(”LTIS”), which was approved by shareholders in December 
2002 and amended at the 2004 Annual General Meeting. 
The purpose of the LTIS is to reward executives for relative 
outperformance of the Company against a deﬁ ned list of 
comparator companies. The LTIS (as amended) provides 
for awards of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, 
subject to the Company meeting TSR targets over single 
three-year periods. All awards are made subject to the 
achievement of stretching performance conditions and 
TSR has been selected as the appropriate performance 
measure to align more closely the interests of the Executive 
Directors and senior executives with those of the Company’s 
shareholders over the long term. Calculations of TSR are 
independently carried out and veriﬁ ed before being approved 
by the Committee.
The following performance conditions apply for awards made 
under the LTIS:
Wolseley’s TSR position in the 
comparator group
Percentage of 
award which will vest
Top decile 100%
Between median and top decile 26–99%
At median 25%
Below median 0%
The lists of comparator companies for awards made under 
the LTIS are based upon the constituent members of the 
FTSE 100 as at the respective dates of grant, excluding 
banks, telecommunications, IT and utility companies but 
together with CRH plc and Travis Perkins plc, which compete 
in the same sector as the Company. A similar group of 
companies will be selected for the 2009 awards under the 
LTIS. 
The LTIS is discretionary. The Committee’s current policy is to 
make annual awards to the Group Chief Executive, Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. Awards are made in 
shares, save where there may be material securities or tax 
law constraints in overseas jurisdictions where the scheme 
would be operated, in which case conditional awards in cash 
would be considered. A total of 782,014 shares (as adjusted 
following the capital reorganisation and rights issue) were 
conditionally granted under the LTIS in October 2008 to 
104 employees (2008: 127).
The maximum amount that can be granted under the amended 
LTIS for each award is 200 per cent of base salary per annum; 
however, awards made to date have not exceeded 125 per 
cent, or in the case of the Group Chief Executive 150 per cent, 
of base salary. Each year the Committee assesses the relevant 
proportion of awards arising from both share options and 
long-term incentive awards. Extant awards remain subject 
to the achievement of performance conditions following a 
participant’ s agreed retirement and vesting is only determined 
at the end of the performance period.
The following table sets out the percentage of each award 
which has vested and the percentage of each extant award, 
had it vested on 31 July 2009:
Year of award
Percentage vested on maturity or indicative 
vesting percentage based 
on performance as at 31 July 2009
2004 0% (vested 31 July 2007)
2005 0% (vested 31 July 2008)
2006 0% (at 31 July 2009)
2007 0% (performance after 24 months)
2008 0% (performance after 12 months)
Details of the awards conditionally made under the LTIS to the Executive Directors in ofﬁ ce during the year, the adjustments 
made as a result of the capital reorganisation and share issue, and the number of awards outstanding at 31 July 2009 are 
shown in the table below: 
Name of Director 
Interests in shares held 
at 1 August 2008
Interests awarded
during the year
1
Interests lapsed 
during the year
2
Interests in shares held 
following adjustments 
made in April 2009
Interests in shares held 
at 31 July 09
3
C A S Hornsby 262,797 477,847 50,406 165,526 0
4
R H Marchbank 121,068 205,643 27,817 71,676 71,676
F W Roach 110,829 204,321 19,409 70,920 70,920
S P Webster 151,133 193,629 42,147 72,568 72,568
1  The share price on the date of the award was 287.25 pence per share. For comparison, this ﬁ gure would be equivalent to 1197.8 pence after taking into account 
the adjustments required following the capital reorganisation and share issue (using the TERP factor of 0.416983283).
2 Awards granted in 2005 did not pass their TSR performance conditions and all awards lapsed in October 2008 (before the capital reorganisation and rights issue).
3 The performance periods range from 1 August 2006 to 31July 2011.
4 In accordance with the rules of the LTIS, all awards lapsed on 29 June 2009 as a consequence of Mr Hornsby’s cessation of employment. 70 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration report continued
Executive share options (audited)
The Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 (“2003 Option Plan”) 
received shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting 
held in November 2003. Consequently, no further options 
have been granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 
1984 (“1984 Scheme”) nor under the Executive Share Option 
Scheme 1989 (“1989 Scheme”), which are now closed. 
No options under any such scheme have or will be granted at 
a discount to the relevant middle market price at the time of 
grant and no option under any such scheme can be exercised 
unless performance conditions have been satisﬁ ed.
The purpose of the 2003 Option Plan is to reward executives 
for absolute EPS growth of the Company above UK inﬂ ation.
All employees and Executive Directors of the Company 
and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the 2003 
Option Plan. Participants are selected by the Committee at 
its discretion. The Committee considers annually the levels 
of grant, which are phased over time and determines the 
size of each award at the time of grant based on individual 
performance, the ability of each individual to contribute to the 
achievement of the performance conditions and market levels 
of remuneration. Awards may not exceed an amount equal 
to ﬁ ve times salary for US-based executives and three times 
salary for UK and other Europe based executives, although 
the Committee may, if it so determines, also use the ﬁ ve times 
salary limit in exceptional circumstances. 
No options may be granted more than ten years after the 
date on which the 2003 Option Plan was approved by the 
Company’s shareholders. The Committee formally reviewed 
the 2003 Option Plan at its meeting held in October 2008 and 
concluded that it remained suitable and appropriate as part of 
the senior executive remuneration package. 
The Company monitors awards made under the various 
employee and discretionary share plans which it operates 
in relation to their effect on dilution limits. Options are either 
satisﬁ ed by the issue of new shares or shares purchased in 
the market. In accordance with the recommendations of the 
Association of British Insurers (“ABI”), the number of new 
shares that may be issued to satisfy options granted under 
the 2003 Option Plan and any other employee share scheme 
is restricted to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company over any rolling ten years. Further, as set 
out in the ABI principles and guidelines, the number of new 
shares that may be issued to satisfy executive options granted 
under the 2003 Option Plan and any other discretionary share 
scheme is restricted to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company over any rolling ten years. In addition, 
for US-based participants, the 2003 Option Plan is restricted 
such that the aggregate number of shares for which options 
may be granted to such participants during the life of the 
2003 Option Plan will not exceed 5 per cent of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date the 2003 
Plan was approved by shareholders.
At 31 July 2009, allowing for the requisite adjustments 
required following the capital reorganisation and share issue, 
awards had been granted resulting in shares being issued or 
capable of being issued during the preceding ten years under 
all of the Company’s employee share plans representing 
9.94 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital at that date 
and 4.36 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital under 
the Company’s discretionary share plans. These percentages 
remain high because the adjustment factors noted on page 
68 are not applied to shares which have already been issued 
under the Company’s share option schemes in the last 
ten years, the period used for this calculation.
The extent to which the options will be capable of exercise 
depends on the satisfaction of a performance condition, 
based on achieving growth above UK inﬂ ation in the 
Company’s EPS, measured from the year ended immediately 
prior to grant. The performance condition for options now 
granted under the 2003 Option Plan operates on the following 
sliding scale: 
Multiple of salary worth 
of shares under option 
Total margin of 
growth over UK 
inﬂ ation after three 
years
First 100% of salary 9%
Second 100% of salary 12%
Next 50% of salary 15%
Greater than 250% of salary 15% to 21%
The performance of the Company is measured over three 
ﬁ nancial years, starting with the ﬁ nancial year in which the 
option grant takes place. For all grants made under the 
2003 Option Plan on or after 5 November 2004 there is a 
single three-year performance period and, in the event that 
the performance conditions are not fully met on the third 
anniversary of the date of grant, the unvested options will 
lapse. Provided the performance condition has been satisﬁ ed, 
an option may be exercised at any time until it lapses, ten 
years from the date of grant. No amount is payable on the 
grant of an option.
The Committee can set different EPS targets from those 
described above for future options, provided that the new 
conditions are no less challenging in the circumstances than 
the initial ones. Similarly, the Committee can vary the terms 
of existing options to take account of technical changes, for 
example, changes in accounting standards. Any amended 
target will be materially no less challenging as a result of any 
such change. The Committee continues to believe that the 
EPS condition is appropriate for share options, as it requires 
substantial improvement in the Company’s underlying ﬁ nancial 
performance and complements the inherent requirement for 
share price growth for an option to have value.
In November 2008, 5,693,384 options (as adjusted following 
the capital reorganisation and rights issue) were granted under 
the 2003 Option Plan to 1,279 employees (2007: 1,370) 
across the Group at an adjusted option price of 1334 pence. 
The table on page 71 shows the number of share options 
awarded to Executive Directors in ofﬁ ce during the year, the 
adjustments made to the executive share option schemes as 
a result of the capital reorganisation and share issue, and the 
number of awards outstanding as at 31 July 2009. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Wolseley plc 71 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ interests in share options (audited)
Name of Director
Options held 
at 1 August 
2008
Options 
granted 
during 
the year
Options 
lapsed 
during
the year
Adjusted 
number of 
options held 
following capital 
reorganisation 
and share 
issue at April 
 2009
5
Options held 
at 31 July 
2009
Original 
option price 
(p)
Adjusted 
option price 
(p)
Dates options 
normally exercisable
C A S Hornsby
Executive Options 40,528 9,717 0
4
949.00 3957.00 04.11.07 – 03.11.14
117,179 117,179
2
– 0
4
1185.00 – 03.11.08 – 02.11.15
165,402
1
39,662 0
4
1201.00 5008.00 02.11.09 – 01.11.16
264,983
1
63,546 0
4
805.50 3359.00 02.11.10 – 01.11.17
851,935
1
204,307 0
4
320.00 1334.00 01.11.11 – 31.10.18
UK Sharesave 2,370 2,370 – 0 405.00 – 01.06.11 – 30.11.11
– 5,446 1,304 0
4
168.00 701.00 01.06.12 – 30.11.12
ESPP 554 554 – 0 431.00 – 01.05.09 – 18.05.09
– 1,711 410 0
4
178.00 743.00 01.05.10 – 19.05.10
R H Marchbank
Executive Options 30,000 7,194 7,194 467.00 1947.00 12.11.04 – 11.11.11
30,000 7,192 7,192 543.00 2264.00 04.11.05 – 03.11.12
30,000 7,191 7,191 743.00 3098.00 27.11.06 – 26.11.13
27,356 6,558 6,558 949.00 3957.00 04.11.07 – 03.11.14
32,335 7,753 7,753 1100.00 4587.00 21.03.08 – 20.03.15
62,869 62,869
2
– – 1185.00 – 03.11.08 – 02.11.15
75,117
1
18,012 18,012 1201.00 5008.00 02.11.09 – 01.11.16
114,034
1
27,346 27,346 805.50 3359.00 01.11.10 – 31.10.17
366,633
1
87,923 87,923 320.00 1334.00 01.11.11 – 31.10.18
UK Sharesave 2,370 2,370 – 0 405.00 – 01.06.11 – 30.11.11
– 5,446 1,304 1,304 168.00 701.00 01.06.12 – 30.11.12
ESPP 554 554 – 0 431.00 – 01.05.09 – 18.05.09
– 1,711 410 410 178.00 743.00 01.05.10 – 19.05.10
F W Roach
Executive Options 13,161 3,156 3,156 543.00 2264.00 04.11.05 – 03.11.12
30,000 7,191 7,191 743.00 3098.00 27.11.06 – 26.11.13
17,369 4,162 4,162 949.00 3957.00 04.11.07 – 03.11.14
27,341 27,341
2
– – 1185.00 – 03.11.08 – 02.11.15
50,000 50,000
2
– – 1281.00 – 18.01.09 – 17.01.16
72,012
1
17,269 17,269 1201.00 5008.00 02.11.09 – 01.11.16
113,303
1
27,171 27,171 805.50 3359.00 01.11.10 – 31.10.17
364,275
1
87,357 87,357 320.00 1334.00 01.11.11 – 31.10.18
ESPP – 1,711 410 410 178.00 743.00 01.05.10 – 19.05.10
S P Webster
Executive Options 3,250 3,250
3
– – 381.00 – 13.11.01 – 12.11.08
10,000 2,398 2,398 397.00 1655.00 21.10.02 – 20.10.09
50,000 11,990 11,990 349.75 1458.00 23.10.03 – 22.10.10
75,000 17,986 17,986 467.00 1947.00 13.11.04 – 12.11.11
80,000 19,185 19,185 543.00 2264.00 05.11.05 – 04.11.12
90,679 21,744 21,744 743.00 3098.00 28.11.06 – 27.11.13
45,310 10,862 10,863 949.00 3957.00 05.11.07 – 04.11.14
90,189 90,189
2
– – 1185.00 – 04.11.08 – 03.11.15
94,233
1
22,594 22,594 1201.00 5008.00 03.11.09 – 02.11.16
150,837
1
36,171 36,171 805.50 3359.00 02.11.10 – 01.11.17
391,078
1
93,782 93,782 320.00 1334.00 01.11.11 – 31.10.18
UK Sharesave 2,370 2,370 – – 405.00 – 01.06.11 – 30.11.11
– 5,446 1,304 1,304 168.00 701.00 01.06.12 – 30.11.12
1 Options exercisable subject to meeting performance targets.
2 These options lapsed on 4 November 2008 as the 2005 grant did not pass the relevant EPS performance conditions.
3 Performance targets not passed prior to options reaching ten-year limit from date of grant.
4  In accordance with the rules of the Wolseley Executive Share Option Plan 2003, all options lapsed on 29 June 2009 as a consequence of Mr Hornsby’s 
cessation of employment.
5  Outstanding options were subject to an adjustment following the capital reorganisation and share issue to reﬂ ect the dilutive effect of these transactions. 
The total number of shares held under option outstanding at 21 April 2009, following the capital reorganisation adjustment, was multiplied by a TERP factor 
of 2.398177677. The respective option prices were multiplied by a TERP factor of 0.416983283.
No options under either the executive or savings related share option schemes were exercised during the year ended 
31 July 2009. The highest mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary 25 pence shares (prior to the capital reorganisation 
and share issue) was 494 pence and the lowest was 140.4 pence. After the capital reorganisation and share issue, the highest 
mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary 10 pence shares was 2632 pence and the lowest was 980 pence. The price of the 
Company’s ordinary 10 pence shares on 31 July 2009 was 1339 pence. 72 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration report continued
Savings related share option schemes 
(audited)
The UK- and US-based Executive Directors may, along with all 
eligible employees, also participate in the UK Savings Related 
Share Option Scheme (“UK sharesave”) and the Employee 
Share Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) respectively. Under the UK 
sharesave, participants can enter into a savings contract for 
three, ﬁ ve or seven years, up to a maximum level of £250 
per month (over all contracts) and are granted options to 
subscribe for shares in the Company. Under the ESPP , a US 
Code 423 Plan, US participants may enter into a one-year 
savings contract to a maximum level of no more than $400 per 
month (the savings amount is linked to the £250 UK savings 
amount and is therefore adjusted for exchange rate purposes). 
The Board may determine that the options granted under 
either scheme may be awarded at a discount. The maximum 
discount, which was applied to the 2009 awards, is for the UK 
sharesave scheme 20 per cent and for the ESPP 15 per cent 
of the average market prices used to determine the price of the 
award. Similar schemes are also offered to employees across 
Europe under the Wolseley European Sharesave Plan (“WESP”) 
and in Ireland under the Wolseley Irish Sharesave Scheme. 
Following the adjustments made for the capital reorganisation 
and share issue, and allowing for lapses completed after the 
date of grant, a total of 1,176,923 options were granted in 
April 2009 to 4,068 employees in North America under the 
ESPP and 614 employees across Europe under the WESP , 
at an adjusted option price of 743 pence per share. In the 
UK and Ireland, a total of 2,252,630 options were granted 
at an adjusted option price of 701 pence per share to 3,588 
employees in the UK and 89 employees in Ireland. 
The table on page 71 sets out the number of share options 
granted to Executive Directors during the year under the UK 
sharesave and ESPP , the adjustments made as a result of 
the capital reorganisation and share issue, and the number of 
options outstanding as at 31 July 2009. 
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR performance 
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the ﬁ ve-
year period to 31 July 2009. The FTSE 100 Index has been 
chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting of 
companies comparable in size and complexity to Wolseley.
External directorships
Executive Directors are encouraged to take on not more than 
one external non executive directorship on a non-competitor 
board, as the Committee believes there are signiﬁ cant beneﬁ ts 
to be achieved for both the Company and the individual. 
In order to avoid any conﬂ ict of interest, all appointments are 
subject to the Board’s approval. Executive Directors may 
retain payments received in respect of these appointments. 
Mr Webster was, until November 2008, a non executive 
director of Bradford & Bingley plc, for which the annual rate 
of his fees was £70,000. The amount received during the 
ﬁ nancial year prior to his stepping down as a director of this 
company was £17,500.
This report has been approved by the Board for submission 
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 18 November 2009 and is signed on its behalf by the 
Chairman of the Committee.
On behalf of the Board
Andrew J Duff Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 September 2009
200
150
100
50
0
Total return indices – Wolseley and FTSE 100
31/07/05 31/07/04 31/07/06 31/07/07 31/07/08 31/07/09
Wolseley return index FTSE 100 return index Other information Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements 
Index to financial statements 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
73
   Consolidated financial statements 
  
74 Group income statement 
75 Group statement of recognised income and expense 
76 Group balance sheet 
77 Group cash flow statement 
78 Group accounting policies 
84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
84 1.  Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
86 2.  Segmental analysis 
91 3.  Amounts charged in arriving at operating (loss)/profit 
91 4.  Exceptional items 
92 5.  Finance revenue 
92 6.  Finance costs 
93 7.  Share of after tax loss of associate 
93 8.  Taxation 
94 9.  Discontinued operations 
95 10.  Dividends 
95 11.  (Loss)/earnings per share 
96 12.  Non-GAAP measures of performance 
96 13.  Employee information and Directors’ remuneration 
97 14.  Intangible assets – goodwill 
99 15.  Intangible assets – other 
100 16.  Property, plant and equipment 
101 17.  Investment in associate 
102 18.  Financial assets – available-for-sale investments 
102 19.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
102 20.  Inventories 
103 21.  Trade and other receivables 
104 22.  Financial assets: trading investments 
104 23.  Derivative financial instruments 
106 24.  Construction loans 
107 25.  Cash and cash equivalents 
108 26.  Assets and liabilities held for sale 
108 27.  Trade and other payables 
109 28.  Bank loans and overdrafts 
110 29.  Financial instruments and financial risk management 
114 30.  Obligations under finance leases 
115 31.  Provisions 
116 32.  Retirement benefit obligations 
120 33.  Share capital 
121 34.  Share-based payments 
124 35.  Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in  
 shareholders’ equity 
125 36.  Reconciliation of (loss)/profit to net cash inflow from operating 
 activities 
126 37.  Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase  
 of businesses 
126 38.  Disposals 
127 39.  Reconciliation of opening to closing net debt 
127 40.  Related party transactions 
127 41.  Capital commitments 
128 42.  Operating lease commitments 
128 43.  Contingent liabilities 
128 44.  Parent company 
128 45.  Accounting standards and interpretations that are not  
 yet effective 
129 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Wolseley plc 
 
 
   Company financial statements 
  
130 Company balance sheet 
131 Notes to the Company financial statements 
131 1.  Company accounting policies 
133 2.  Fixed asset investments 
133 3.  Debtors 
133 4.  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
133 5.  Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 
133 6.  Share capital 
133 7.  Share premium 
134 8.  Profit and loss reserve 
134 9.  Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
134 10.  Retirement benefit obligations 
134 11.  Share-based payments 
135 12.  Derivative financial instruments 
136 13.  Bank loans and overdrafts 
137 14.  Contingent liabilities 
137 15.  Employees, employee costs and auditors’ remuneration 
137 16.  Dividends 
137 17.  Related party transactions 
137 18.  Accounting standards and interpretations that are not  
 yet effective 
138 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Wolseley plc 
   Group income statement 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
74 
 Notes
2009
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m
2009
Exceptional 
items 
(note 4)
£m
2009
Total 
£m
2008 
Before  
exceptional 
items 
(restated) 
£m 
2008 
Exceptional 
items 
(restated) 
(note 4) 
£m 
2008
Total
(restated)
£m
Continuing operations   
Revenue 2 14,441 – 14,44114,814 – 14,814
Cost of sales (10,436) (28) (10,464)(10,632) (1) (10,633)
Gross profit 4,005 (28) 3,977 4,182 (1) 4,181
Distribution costs (2,831) (266) (3,097) (2,738) (61) (2,799)
 Administrative expenses:   
  amortisation of acquired  
  intangibles (105) – (105) (105) – (105)
  impairment of acquired  
  intangibles (490) – (490) (57) – (57)
  other (743) (164) (907) (693) (8) (701)
Administrative expenses: total (1,338) (164) (1,502) (855) (8) (863)
Other income 16 – 16 36 – 36
Operating (loss)/profit 2, 3 (148) (458) (606) 625 (70) 555
Finance revenue 5 72 – 72 72 – 72
Finance costs  6 (217) – (217) (228) – (228)
Share of after tax loss of associate 7 (9) (6) (15) – – –
(Loss)/profit before tax (302) (464) (766) 469 (70) 399
Tax income/(expense) 8 (72) 106 34 (182) 25 (157)
(Loss)/profit from continuing 
operations (374) (358) (732) 287 (45) 242
Loss from discontinued operations 9 (265) (176) (441) (164) (4) (168)
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders (639) (534) (1,173) 123 (49) 74
(Loss)/earnings per share 11  
Continuing operations and 
discontinued operations   
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (558.0)p   41.0p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (558.0)p   40.9p
Continuing operations only   
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (348.2)p   134.0p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (348.2)p   133.8p
   
Non-GAAP measures of 
performance 11,12  
Continuing operations only   
Trading profit 447 787  
Profit before tax, exceptional items 
and the amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangibles 293 631  
Basic earnings per share before 
exceptional items and the 
amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles 95.6p 240.3p  
Diluted earnings per share before 
exceptional items and the 
amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles 95.5p 239.9p  
The income statement for 2008 has been restated to present Stock Building Supply as a discontinued operation. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
Group statement of recognised income and expense 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
75
 Notes 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year  (1,173) 74
Net exchange adjustments offset in reserves 35 280 129
Actuarial losses on retirement benefits 32 (115) (135)
Available-for-sale investments reclassified and reported in net profit for the year  – 13
Valuation loss on interest rate swaps (less amounts reclassified and reported in  
net income)  (20) –
Tax credit not recognised in the income statement 8 42 33
Net gains not recognised in the income statement  187 40
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year attributable to shareholders  (986) 114
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  Group balance sheet 
As at 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
76 
 Notes 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets: goodwill 14 1,514 1,995
Intangible assets: other 15 709 841
Property, plant and equipment 16 1,593 1,842
Investment in associate 17 53 –
Financial assets: available-for-sale investments 18 3 4
Deferred tax assets 19 244 52
Trade and other receivables 21 116 96
Derivative financial assets 23 34 –
  4,266 4,830
Current assets   
Inventories 20 1,624 2,025
Trade and other receivables 21 1,983 2,804
Current tax receivable  124 18
Financial assets: trading investments 22 155 5
Derivative financial assets 23 23 16
Financial receivables: construction loans (secured) 24 163 237
Cash and cash equivalents 25 635 321
  4,707 5,426
Assets held for sale 26 88 43
Total assets  9,061 10,299
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 27 2,586 2,956
Current tax payable  173 219
Borrowings: construction loans (unsecured) 24 163 237
Bank loans and overdrafts 28 42 276
Obligations under finance leases 30 12 19
Derivative financial liabilities 23 25 8
Provisions 31 122 60
Retirement benefit obligations 32 33 22
  3,156 3,797
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 27 59 68
Bank loans 28 1,657 2,440
Obligations under finance leases 30 59 68
Derivative financial liabilities 23 11 –
Deferred tax liabilities  19 176 235
Provisions  31 244 118
Retirement benefit obligations 32 308 214
  2,514 3,143
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 26 15 –
Total liabilities  5,685 6,940
Net assets  3,376 3,359
Shareholders’ equity   
Called up share capital 33 241 165
Share premium account 35 1,152 949
Foreign currency translation reserve 35 228 (52)
Retained earnings 35 1,755 2,297
Equity shareholders’ funds  3,376 3,359
The consolidated financial statements on pages 74 to 128 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 September 2009 
and were signed on its behalf by 
 
 
Ian K Meakins Stephen P Webster 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
Group cash flow statement 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
77
Notes 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations 36 1,200 1,262
Interest received  66 70
Interest paid  (231) (205)
Tax paid  (27) (99)
Net cash generated from operating activities   1,008 1,028
Cash flows from investing activities   
Acquisition of businesses (net of cash acquired) 37 (18) (199)
Disposals of businesses (net of cash disposed of)  (15) 16
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (91) (219)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  172 84
Purchases of intangible assets  (66) (98)
Purchases of investments  (155) –
Disposals of investments  5 –
Net cash used in investing activities  (168) (416)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from the issue of shares to shareholders 35 999 4
Purchases of shares by Employee Benefit Trusts 35 (5) –
Proceeds from new borrowings  – 283
Repayments of borrowings and derivatives  (1,437) (529)
Finance lease capital payments  (26) (19)
Dividends paid to shareholders  – (215)
Net cash used by financing activities  (469) (476)
Net cash generated  371 136
Effects of exchange rate changes  24 7
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  395 143
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year 39 203 60
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 39 598 203
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  Group accounting policies 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
78 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union, including 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) and its committees, and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The date of transition to IFRS was  
1 August 2004. 
A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the 
Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements is set out below. 
Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the 
revaluation of available-for-sale investments and financial 
assets and liabilities held for trading. 
Accounting standards and interpretations 
adopted during the year 
During the year the following interpretation of published 
standards was adopted by the Group: 
IFRIC 14  “The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum 
Funding Requirements and their Interaction” 
The adoption of this interpretation has not had a significant 
impact on the Group’s financial position or results of 
operations. 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of 
their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income 
statement to enable a full understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance. These exclude impairments of acquired 
intangibles which are also presented separately in the income 
statement. Transactions which may give rise to exceptional 
items include restructurings of business activities and gains or 
losses on the disposal of businesses. 
Consolidation 
The consolidated financial information includes the results of 
the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up 
to 31 July 2009. 
The trading results of businesses other than discontinued 
operations acquired or sold during the year are included in 
profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations from 
the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale. 
Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised 
gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are 
eliminated on consolidation. 
Discontinued operations 
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a 
business component that represents a separate major line of 
business or geographical area of operations it classifies such 
operations as discontinued. The post-tax profit or loss of the 
discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face 
of the income statement, separate from the other results of 
the Group. The income statement for the comparative periods 
is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from 
the continuing operations. 
Foreign currencies 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the 
Group’s subsidiary undertakings are measured using the 
currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
subsidiary undertaking operates (the “functional currency”). 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group  
and the functional currency of the parent company. 
The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling 
during the relevant financial period. 
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the 
period end. Exchange differences arising between the 
translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary 
undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the 
year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are 
exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to the 
extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge 
against foreign currency net assets. 
Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of 
derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign 
currency net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions  
of IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve 
(see the separate accounting policy on derivative financial 
instruments). 
In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, 
the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income 
statement is determined after taking into account the 
cumulative currency translation differences that are 
attributable to the subsidiary undertaking concerned. 
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the 
dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All currency 
translation differences are taken to the income statement with 
the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to 
the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge 
against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.  
Revenue 
Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods 
and services falling within the Group's ordinary activities, 
excluding intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales 
returns, trade and early settlement discounts, value added tax 
and similar sales taxes. 
Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when  
the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been 
transferred to the customer. The risks and rewards of 
ownership of goods are deemed to have been transferred 
when the goods are shipped to, or are picked up by,  
the customer. 
Revenue from services, other than those that arise from 
construction service contracts (see below), are recognised 
when the service provided to the customer has been 
completed.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
79
Revenue in respect of construction service contracts, where 
the Group is providing framing lumber installation services to 
residential property companies, is recognised using the 
percentage of completion method, with the percentage 
complete being determined by comparing the percentage of 
costs incurred to date with the estimated total costs of the 
contract. Losses on these contracts, if any, are recognised in 
the period when such losses become probable and can be 
reasonably estimated. 
Revenue from the provision of goods and all services is only 
recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or 
determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. 
Cost of sales 
Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing 
inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and 
overheads attributable to assembly and construction services. 
Vendor rebates 
The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors 
providing for inventory purchase rebates. These purchase 
rebates are accrued as earned and are recorded initially as a 
reduction in inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of 
sales when the related product is sold. 
Business combinations 
The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting 
for the acquisition of subsidiaries. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the 
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred 
or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority 
interest. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the 
fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets of the 
subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the 
income statement. 
Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition 
over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary 
undertakings is included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment 
and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the 
carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose 
of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units 
represents the lowest level within the Group at which the 
associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes 
and are not larger than the reporting segments determined in 
accordance with IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”. 
Other intangible assets 
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary 
asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits 
attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost 
can be measured reliably. The asset is deemed to be 
identifiable when it is separable or when it arises from 
contractual or other legal rights. 
Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer 
relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are 
capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance 
method for customer relationships and the straight-line 
method for other intangible assets. The cost of the intangible 
assets is amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Customer relationships 4 – 25 years 
Trade names and brands 1 – 15 years 
Other 1 – 4 years 
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, 
plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible 
asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Costs include software 
licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, 
design and implementation of the computer software and 
internal costs directly attributable to the development, design 
and implementation of the computer software. Costs in 
respect of training and data conversion are expensed as 
incurred. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line 
method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to 
the income statement over its estimated useful life (three to 
five years). 
Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) 
PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets  
in the course of construction, which are not depreciated and 
are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.  
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items. In addition, subsequent costs are 
included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to 
the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the 
income statement during the financial period in which they  
are incurred. 
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line 
method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value 
over its estimated useful life, as follows: 
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35 – 50 years 
Short leaseholds over the period  
 of the lease 
Plant and machinery 7 – 10 years 
Fixtures and fittings 5 – 7 years 
Computers 3 – 5 years 
Motor vehicles 4 years 
The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and 
adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date. 
Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are 
charged to the income statement in the period in which they 
are incurred.  Group accounting policies continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
80 
Leased assets 
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the 
asset have transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the 
balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease 
term or their useful lives. The asset is recorded at the lower  
of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease 
payments at the inception of the lease. The capital elements 
of future obligations under finance leases are included in 
liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed between current 
and non-current amounts. The interest elements of future 
obligations under finance leases are charged to the income 
statement over the periods of the leases and represent a 
constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments 
outstanding in accordance with the effective interest rate 
method. 
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.  
The cost of operating leases (net of any incentives received 
from the lessor) is charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the periods of the leases. 
Assets and disposal groups held for sale  
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount 
will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the 
business. Where a group of assets and their directly 
associated liabilities are to be disposed of in a single 
transaction, such disposal groups are also classified as held 
for sale. For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group 
must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, 
and management must be committed to and have initiated a 
plan to sell the asset or disposal group which, when initiated, 
was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months. 
Assets that are classified as held for sale are not depreciated. 
Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.  
Associates 
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant 
influence but not control, generally accompanying a 
shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the 
voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for 
using the equity method of accounting and are initially 
recognised at cost. 
The Group’s share of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or 
losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of 
post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in 
reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are 
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When 
the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds 
its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured 
receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, 
unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf 
of the associate. 
Impairment of assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill,  
are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for 
impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstance 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
Assets that are subject to amortisation and assets under 
construction are tested for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for 
the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of 
an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at  
the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) 
method or the average cost method as appropriate to the 
nature of the transactions in those items of inventory. The cost 
of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom 
duties, transport and handling costs, freight and packing 
costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, 
rebates and other subsidies. It excludes borrowing costs.  
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling 
expenses. 
Taxation 
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or 
recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior 
years. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated 
financial statements. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it 
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction, other than a business combination, that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have 
been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax 
asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
81
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate 
swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial 
risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the 
financing of those activities. There is no trading activity in 
derivative financial instruments. 
At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of 
derivative financial instruments, the Group documents the 
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument together with its risk management objective and 
the strategy underlying the proposed transaction. The Group 
also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the 
hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, 
of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in 
the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and 
liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet 
date. Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the 
criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in 
their fair values are recognised in the income statement.  
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging 
relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow 
hedges or net investment hedges. Where the hedging 
relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying 
amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the 
increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged 
risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income 
statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it 
will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging 
instrument. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a 
hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is 
amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. Where 
the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or 
as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is 
effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument 
arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity 
rather than in the income statement. When the hedged item is 
recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains 
and losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the 
income statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-
financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial 
carrying amount. When a hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when the 
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in 
equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. 
Pensions and other post-retirement 
benefits 
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other 
post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement 
as incurred. 
For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement 
benefits, the cost is calculated annually using the projected 
unit credit method and is recognised over the average 
expected remaining service lives of participating employees,  
in accordance with the recommendations of independent 
qualified actuaries. The current service cost of defined benefit 
plans is recorded within operating profit. The total expected 
return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on 
pension scheme liabilities is recorded within finance revenue  
if a gain and finance costs if an expense. Past service costs 
resulting from enhanced benefits are recorded within 
operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have vested. 
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences 
between the expected and actual returns on the plan assets 
and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are 
recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and 
expense in the period in which they occur. The defined benefit 
liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the 
net total for each plan of the present value of the benefit 
obligation at the balance sheet date, less any past service 
costs not yet recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, 
if any, at the balance sheet date. Where a plan is in surplus, 
the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any 
unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any 
amount which the Group expects to recover by way of 
refunds or a reduction in future contributions.  
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for 
impairment of trade receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect  
all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Examples of such evidence include significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor 
will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate. The amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement. Trade receivables are 
written off against the provision when recoverability is 
assessed as being remote. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited to the income 
statement.  Group accounting policies continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
82 
Construction loans 
Construction loan receivables are secured loans made to 
builders to finance the construction of properties or the 
purchase of land. These receivables are financed from bank 
facilities which have a purpose clause under which the Group 
can borrow to finance construction loan receivables, but only 
to the extent that it has sufficient receivables to offset these 
borrowings. This clause has the consequence that any 
borrowings designated for this purpose are repayable when 
the corresponding receivables are either collected or go into 
default. In the latter case, amounts not expected to be 
recoverable have to be funded from the Group’s normal 
facilities. 
Accordingly, the Group restricts the amount designated as 
construction loan borrowings to the recoverable amount of the 
loan portfolio. This amount is then disclosed separately in the 
financial statements as it is not considered part of the Group’s 
net debt. The construction loan borrowings are classified as a 
current liability since the amounts are repayable when the 
corresponding receivables are collected, and the receivables 
are classified as current assets. 
Construction loan receivables are recognised initially at fair 
value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using  
the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.  
A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that the Group 
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 
original terms of the receivables. Examples of such evidence 
include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability 
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, 
and default or delinquency in payments. The amount of the 
provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows 
collectible from the debtor or recoverable from the disposal of 
the asset on which the receivable is secured, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate. The amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement. Construction loan 
receivables are written off against the provision when 
recoverability is assessed as being remote. Subsequent 
recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the 
income statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits 
held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less, 
and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the 
extent that there is no right of offset and no practice of net 
settlement with cash balances. 
Share capital 
The Company only has two classes of shares, ordinary and 
deferred shares, which are both classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new 
shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the 
proceeds, net of tax. 
Where any group company purchases the Company’s equity 
share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, 
including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of 
tax), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or 
disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or 
reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax 
effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the 
consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.  
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with 
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) 
and the redemption value being recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group 
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for 
at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following 
categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; 
loans and receivables; held-to-maturity investments; and 
available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends 
on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
Management determines the classification of its financial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation  
at every reporting date. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
This category comprises financial assets held for trading 
which have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling 
in the short term. Derivatives also fall within this category 
unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is 
effective for accounting purposes. Assets in this category are 
classified as current.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
83
(b) Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market and with no intention of trading. They are 
included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 
12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified 
as non-current assets. Loans and receivables are included in 
trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. 
(c) Held-to-maturity investments 
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial 
assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed 
maturities that the Group’s management has the positive 
intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are included in 
non-current assets unless the investment is due to mature 
within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
(d) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial 
assets that are either designated in this category or not 
classified in any of the other categories. They are included in 
non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of 
the financial asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus 
transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value 
through profit or loss. Financial assets are derecognised when 
the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have 
expired or have been transferred and the Group has 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair 
value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity 
investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. Realised and unrealised gains 
and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the 
“Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” category 
are included in the income statement in the period in which 
they arise. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes 
in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as 
available-for-sale are recognised in equity. When securities 
classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the 
accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income 
statement as gains and losses from investment securities. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether 
there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a Group of 
financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities 
classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged 
decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is 
considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired. If 
any such evidence exits for available-for-sale financial assets, 
the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the 
acquisition cost and the current value, less any impairment 
loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or 
loss, is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement. 
Provisions 
Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs 
and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a 
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past 
events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be 
reliably estimated. Such provisions are measured at the 
present value of management’s best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date. The discount rate used to determine the 
present value reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses. 
Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on 
historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling 
outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported at the 
balance sheet date on certain risks retained by the Group. 
Share-based payments 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the 
Group’s executive share option, long-term incentive and 
employee share purchase schemes. The Group recognises a 
compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based 
on the fair value of the awards, measured using Black-
Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies. 
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the 
date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless  
the conditions on which the award was granted are modified. 
For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the 
date of grant and is re-measured at each balance sheet date 
until the liability is settled. Generally, the compensation cost is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual 
forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure to satisfy 
service conditions or non-market performance conditions. 
Dividends payable 
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Group’s 
financial statements in the period in which the dividends are 
approved by the shareholders of the Company (generally in 
the case of the final dividend) or paid (in the case of interim 
dividends).  Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
84 
1. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions  
in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts. The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are in  
the areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, the net realisable value of inventory, the impairment of goodwill and 
long-lived intangible assets, the reserves in respect of self-insured insurance, the consideration received from vendors,  
onerous lease provisions, taxation and the cost and liability for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. 
Allowance for doubtful accounts 
Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired. Within each of the businesses 
assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts receivable based on a range of factors including the age of the 
receivable and the creditworthiness of the customer. The provision is assessed monthly with a detailed formal review of 
balances and security being conducted at the full year and half year. Determining the recoverability of an account involves 
estimation as to the likely financial condition of the customer and their ability to subsequently make payment. If the Group is 
cautious as to the financial condition of the customer the Group may provide for accounts that are subsequently recovered. 
Similarly if the Group is optimistic as to the financial condition of the customer the Group may not provide for an account that  
is subsequently determined to be irrecoverable. Furthermore, while the Group has a large geographically dispersed customer 
base, a slowdown in the markets in which the Group operates may result in higher than expected uncollectible amounts  
and therefore higher (or lower) than anticipated charges for irrecoverable receivables. The amount relating to continuing 
operations charged to the income statement in 2009 in respect of doubtful accounts represented 0.9 per cent of revenue 
(2008: 0.5 per cent). 
Wolseley held a provision for impairment of receivables at 31 July 2009 amounting to £81 million (2008: £79 million). 
Inventories 
For financial reporting purposes the Group evaluates its inventory to ensure it is carried at the lower of cost or net realisable 
value. Provision is made against slow moving, obsolete and damaged inventories. Damaged inventories are identified and 
written down through the inventory counting procedures conducted within each business. Provision for slow moving and 
obsolete inventories is assessed by each business as part of their ongoing financial reporting. Obsolescence is assessed based 
on comparison of the level of inventory holding to the projected likely future sales. Future sales are assessed based on historical 
experience, and adjusted where the manufacturer has indicated that it will no longer continue to manufacture the particular item. 
To the extent that future events impact the saleability of inventory these provisions could vary significantly. For example, 
changes in specifications or regulations may render inventory, previously considered to have a realisable value in excess of cost, 
obsolete and requiring such inventory to be fully written off. The Group held allowances in respect of inventory balances at  
31 July 2009 amounting to £151 million (2008: £160 million). 
Impairment of long-lived assets 
Wolseley periodically evaluates the net realisable value of long-lived assets, including goodwill, other intangible assets and 
tangible fixed assets, relying on a number of factors, including operating results, business plans and projected future cash flows. 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment 
and whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are 
subject to amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
The value in use is in most cases based on the discounted present value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the 
cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates, or from the individual asset or asset group. Estimates are used in deriving 
these cash flows and the discount rate.  
As disclosed in notes 14, 15 and 16, the Group has charged £879 million in respect of the impairment of long-lived assets 
during the year ended 31 July 2009 (2008: £186 million). 
The results of these tests for impairment are sensitive to the assumptions made in the value in use calculations. The Group has 
estimated the effect of increasing the discount rate by one percentage point, and of decreasing the trading margin for each 
asset group by one percentage point in the final year of the cash flow forecast. The additional impairment charge that would 
arise under either of these alternative assumptions is less than 5 per cent of the carrying amount of goodwill and acquired 
intangible assets of £2,057 million at 31 July 2009. 
Self-insured insurance 
The Group operates a captive insurance company, Wolseley Insurance Limited, which is registered and operational in the Isle of 
Man. This company provides reinsurance exclusively to certain companies within the Group, principally to cover US casualty 
and global property damage risks. Provision is made based on actuarial assessment of the liabilities arising from the insurance 
coverage provided. The actuarial assessment of the reserve for future claims necessarily includes estimates as to the likely trend 
of future claims’ costs and the estimates as to the emergence of further claims subsequent to the year end. An actuarial review 
of claims is performed annually. To the extent that actual claims differ from those projected the provisions could vary 
significantly. At 31 July 2009, the provision for claims arising from this insurance was £57 million (2008: £51 million).  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
85
1. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Consideration received from vendors 
The Group enters into agreements with many of its vendors providing for inventory purchase rebates primarily upon 
achievement of specified volume purchasing levels with many of these agreements applying to sales in a calendar year.  
For certain agreements the rebate rises as a proportion of purchases as higher quantities or values of purchases are made.  
The Group accrues the receipt of vendor rebates as part of its cost of sales for products sold, taking into consideration 
cumulative purchases of inventory to date and projected purchases through to the end of the qualifying period. Rebates are 
accrued for each reporting period with an extensive reassessment of the rebates earned being performed at the end of the 
financial year and half way through the financial year. The Group has agreements with numerous and geographically dispersed 
suppliers, but a slow down in the markets in which the Group operates, or a significant change in the profile of products 
purchased may result in purchases for the remainder of the year differing significantly from those projected. Consequently the 
rebate actually received may vary from that accrued in the financial statements. 
Onerous lease provisions 
When the present value of the future cash flows receivable from the operation of leased assets is less than the present value of 
the rental payments to which the Group is committed, the Group applies the shortfall firstly against the carrying amount of the 
assets, and then provides for any further onerous element of the contract. Determining the amount of such provision requires 
estimating the future net cash flows receivable in respect of these assets, and in the particular case where the leased properties 
are vacant this requires assessing the likely period for which the property will remain vacant, the cost of any works required to 
enhance its marketability and the rental income receivable when the property is sublet. To the extent that actual cash flows 
received differ from those estimated, the amount of provision recognised could differ materially. During the year ended 31 July 
2009 the number of vacant properties has increased significantly due to branch closures. At 31 July 2009, the provision for 
onerous leases was £124 million. 
Impairment of construction loan receivables and foreclosed properties held for sale 
A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is made when management estimates that the present value of 
future cash flows recoverable in respect of these receivables is less than the carrying amount. Determining the amount of such 
provision requires estimating the amount and timing of such future cash flows, which requires an assessment of  
• the financial condition of the debtor; 
• the ability of the debtor to meet contractual payments; and 
• in the event that the Group forecloses on the property on which the receivable is secured, the likely cost of enhancing the 
marketability of the property, the likely disposal proceeds, and the likely period for which the property will be held to maximise 
such proceeds. 
To the extent that actual amounts recovered differ from those estimated, the amount of provision recognised could differ 
materially. At 31 July 2009, the provision for impairment of construction loans receivables was £39 million (2008: £18 million) 
and the provision against foreclosed properties held for sale was £18 million (2008: £4 million). 
Taxation 
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and 
exposures. Amounts accrued are based on management’s interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood of 
settlement. Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions are probable of being sustained. Once considered to be 
probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition 
of the benefit on the basis of the potential settlement through negotiation and/or litigation. All such provisions are included in 
creditors due within one year. Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom and in a number of overseas locations that are 
accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial 
statements. These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates, 
and are disclosed in note 32. 
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect 
the balance sheet and income statement. The Group considers that the most sensitive assumptions are the discount rate and 
life expectancy. The Group has estimated the sensitivity of the financial statements to changes in these assumptions as follows: 
Effect of a change in discount rate 
(Increase)/
decrease 
in liability 
2009
£m
Increase of 0.5% 92
Decrease of 0.5% (104)
  
Effect of an increase in life expectancy  
Increase of one year (34) Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
86 
2. Segmental analysis 
Wolseley’s reportable segments, which are those reported to the Board, are the operating businesses overseen by distinct 
continental and divisional management teams responsible for their performance. All reportable segments derive their revenue 
from a single business activity, the distribution and supply of construction materials and services. 
In 2009 management responsibility for heavy-side businesses in Eastern Europe was transferred from Central and Eastern 
Europe to the Nordic management team. These businesses are therefore now included in the Nordic segment results. The 
comparative figures for 2008 have been restated to reflect the transfer of £93 million of revenue and £3 million of operating loss 
from Central and Eastern Europe to Nordic. The effect on trading profit is not material. The amounts reported in 2008 for the US 
building materials segment have also been restated. The part of the business sold is presented as discontinued operations and 
the construction loan business retained is shown as North America loan services. 
The Group’s business is not highly seasonal but revenue and trading profit are normally slightly higher in the second half.  
The Group’s customer base is highly diversified, with no individually significant customer. 
The revenue, trading profit and operating (loss)/profit of the Group’s reportable segments are detailed in the following  
three tables. 
Revenue by reportable segment for continuing operations 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
UK and Ireland 2,699 3,203
France 2,144 2,116
Nordic 2,113 2,290
Central and Eastern Europe 965 908
Europe 7,921 8,517
US plumbing and heating 5,820 5,613
Canada 700 684
North America 6,520 6,297
Group 14,441 14,814
 
Trading profit by reportable segment for continuing operations (note 12) 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
UK and Ireland 55 176
France 32 103
Nordic 96 159
Central and Eastern Europe – –
European central costs (4) (10)
Europe 179 428
US plumbing and heating 317 397
Canada 32 39
North America plumbing and heating 349 436
North America loan services (24) (19)
North American central costs (8) (8)
North America 317 409
Group central costs (49) (50)
Group 447 787
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
87
2. Segmental analysis continued 
Operating (loss)/profit by reportable segment and reconciliation to (loss)/profit before tax for continuing operations 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
UK and Ireland (251) 99
France 9 80
Nordic (329) 103
Central and Eastern Europe (108) (15)
European central costs (7) (14)
Europe (686) 253
US plumbing and heating 206 349
Canada 25 32
North America plumbing and heating 231 381
North America loan services (55) (19)
North American central costs (8) (8)
North America 168 354
Group central costs (88) (52)
Group operating (loss)/profit (606) 555
Finance revenue 72 72
Finance costs  (217) (228)
Share of after tax loss of associate (15) –
(Loss)/profit before tax (766) 399
The change in revenue and trading profit between the years ended 31 July 2008 and 31 July 2009 can be analysed into the 
effects of changes in exchange rates, the effects of disposals made during the financial year, and the effect of taking in a full 
year’s revenue and trading profit of businesses acquired part way through the previous year, with the remainder being organic 
change. 
Analysis of change in revenue 
2008
(restated)
£m
Exchange 
£m
Disposals 
£m
Increment 
on 2008
acquisitions 
£m
Organic  
change  
£m 
Organic  
change  
% 
2009
£m
UK and Ireland 3,203 46 – 1 (551) (17.0) 2,699
France 2,116342(20)22(316) (12.9) 2,144
Nordic 2,290299––(476) (18.4) 2,113
Central and Eastern Europe 908 158 (15) 9 (95) (8.9) 965
Europe 8,517845(35)32(1,438) (15.4) 7,921
US plumbing and heating 5,613 1,533 – 12 (1,338) (18.7) 5,820
Canada 68461––(45) (6.0) 700
North America 6,297 1,594 – 12 (1,383) (17.5) 6,520
Group 14,8142,439(35)44(2,821) (16.4) 14,441
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
88 
2. Segmental analysis continued 
Analysis of change in trading profit (note 12) 
2008
£m
Exchange 
£m
Disposals 
£m
Increment 
on 2008
acquisitions 
£m
Organic  
change  
£m 
Organic  
change  
% 
2009
£m
UK and Ireland 176 – – – (121) (68.7) 55
France 10317(1)1(88) (73.0) 32
Nordic 15922––(85) (47.1) 96
Central and Eastern Europe – 3 1 – (4) (127.4) –
European central costs  (10) – – – 6  (4)
Europe 42842–1(292) (62.0) 179
US plumbing and heating 397 108 – 2 (190) (37.6) 317
Canada 394––(11) (25.6) 32
North America plumbing and heating 436 112 – 2 (201) (36.7) 349
North America loan services (19) (5) – – – 3.1 (24)
North American central costs  (8) (3) – – 3  (8)
North America 409 104 – 2 (198) (38.4) 317
Group central costs  (50) 1 – – –  (49)
Group 787147–3(490) (52.3) 447
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
89
2. Segmental analysis continued 
Other segmental information: 
For the year ended 31 July 2009 
 
UK and  
Ireland  
£m 
France  
£m 
Nordic 
£m
Central 
and 
Eastern 
Europe 
£m
US 
plumbing 
and 
heating 
£m
Canada 
£m
North 
America 
loan 
services  
£m 
Group  
centre  
£m 
Discon-
tinued 
operations 
£m
Total 
£m
Depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment 52 35 24 12 85 4 – 1 15 228
Impairment of property plant 
and equipment 34 – – 8 – – – – 16 58
Amortisation of non- 
acquired intangibles 1 – 1 2 3 – – 12 – 19
Impairment of non- 
acquired intangibles – – – 3 – – – 40 – 43
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles 14 3 55 1 31 1 – – 12 117
Impairment of acquired 
intangibles 109 – 359 22 – – – – 288 778
 210 38 439 48 119 5 – 53 331 1,243
Additions to property,  
plant and equipment 19 30 25 5 10 2 – – 3 94
Additions to non-acquired 
intangible assets – 1 – – 2 – – 74 – 77
 19 31 25 5 12 2 – 74 3 171
 
Segment assets 1,394 1,188 1,847 417 2,237 305 207 195 – 7,790
Reconciliation to total assets 
as reported in the Group 
balance sheet:      
Investment in associate     53
Deferred tax assets     244
Financial assets – current 
and non-current     158
Current tax receivable     124
Derivative financial assets     57
Cash and cash equivalents     635
Total assets as reported in 
the Group balance sheet     9,061
Segment liabilities 927 565 546 220 856 106 165 145 – 3,530
Reconciliation to total 
liabilities as reported in the 
Group balance sheet:     
Current tax payable     173
Bank loans and overdrafts     1,699
Obligations under finance 
leases     71
Derivative financial liabilities     36
Deferred tax liabilities     176
Total liabilities as reported in 
the Group balance sheet     5,685
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
90 
2. Segmental analysis continued 
For the year ended 31 July 2008 
 
UK and  
Ireland  
£m 
France  
£m 
Nordic 
£m
Central 
and 
Eastern 
Europe 
£m
US 
plumbing 
and 
heating 
£m
Canada 
£m
North 
America 
loan 
services  
£m 
Group  
centre  
£m 
Discon-
tinued 
operations 
£m
Total 
£m
Depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment 52 30 20 10 68 4 – 1 27 212
Amortisation of non- 
acquired intangibles 1 – 1 2 2 – – 9 – 15
Impairment of non- 
acquired intangibles – – – 12 – – – 3 – 15
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles 19 2 523272– – 30135
Impairment of acquired 
intangibles 46 – – 11 – – – – 114 171
 118 32 73 38 97 6 – 13 171 548
Additions to property,  
plant and equipment 50 33 30 14 92 4 – 1 11 235
Additions to non-acquired 
intangible assets – – – 17 2 – – 80 – 99
 50 33 30 31 94 4 – 81 11 334
Additions to goodwill 10 37 – 4 22 – – – 11 84
Additions to acquired 
intangible assets 3 10 – – 36 – – – 15 64
 
Segment assets 1,857 1,315 2,222 522 2,427 326 264 156 794 9,883
Reconciliation to total assets 
as reported in the Group 
balance sheet:     
Deferred tax assets     52
Financial assets – current 
and non-current     9
Current tax receivable     18
Derivative financial assets     16
Cash and cash equivalents     321
Total assets as reported in 
the Group balance sheet     10,299
Segment liabilities 833 666 553 201 767 111 240 98 206 3,675
Reconciliation to total 
liabilities as reported in the 
Group balance sheet     
Current tax payable     219
Bank loans and overdrafts     2,716
Obligations under finance 
leases     87
Derivative financial liabilities     8
Deferred tax liabilities     235
Total liabilities as reported in 
the Group balance sheet     6,940
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
91
3. Amounts charged in arriving at operating (loss)/profit 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 213 185
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 42 –
Amortisation of non-acquired intangible assets 19 15
Impairment of non-acquired intangible assets 43 15
Loss/(profit) on disposal of businesses and revaluations of disposal groups 40 (6)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets available-for-sale 6 (15)
Staff costs (note 13) 2,131 1,984
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 105 105
Impairment of acquired intangible assets 490 57
Operating lease rentals: land and buildings 222 195
Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 35 34
Amounts included in costs of goods sold with respect to inventory 9,438 10,219
Amounts credited to reverse write downs of inventory (13) (21)
Trade receivables impairment 90 60
Construction loan receivables impairment 38 16
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the 
Company’s auditor and its associates:  
Fees for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.6
Other services  
– Fees for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4.3 3.6
– Fees for other services pursuant to legislation 2.8 0.8
– Taxation 5.4 4.1
– Other services 0.3 0.1
Total fees payable to the auditors 13.4 9.2
The increase in the fees for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries is due to foreign currency movements. The fees for other 
services pursuant to legislation of £2.8 million relate to the share placing and rights issue. These costs have been recognised in 
equity as part of the net proceeds of the share placing and rights issue. 
Operating lease rentals: land and buildings shown above excludes exceptional charges of £153 million relating to future lease 
rentals on vacant properties (2008: £17 million). 
4. Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income 
statement to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. 
Exceptional items included in operating profit from continuing operations are analysed by segment as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
UK and Ireland (183) (12)
France (20) (21)
Nordic (11) (3)
Central and Eastern Europe (85) (2)
European central costs (3) (4)
Europe (302) (42)
US plumbing and heating (80) (21)
Canada (6) (5)
North America plumbing and heating (86) (26)
North America loan services (31) –
North America (117) (26)
Group central costs (39) (2)
Group (458) (70) Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
92 
4. Exceptional items continued 
Exceptional items included in operating profit from continuing operations are analysed by purpose as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Staff redundancy costs (75) (29)
Provisions for future lease rentals on closed branches and asset write-downs (271) (41)
Restructuring costs (346) (70)
Write-down of construction loan portfolio arising from the separation from Stock Building Supply (31) –
Impairment of software assets under construction (41) –
Loss on disposal of businesses and revaluations of disposal groups (40) –
Group (458) (70)
In addition the Group’s associate undertaking also incurred restructuring costs during the year. The Group’s share of the after 
tax cost of these restructuring actions of £6 million has been disclosed as an exceptional item. 
Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations are detailed in note 9. 
5. Finance revenue 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Interest receivable 72 69
Net pension finance income (note 32) – 3
Total finance revenue – continuing operations 72 72
Net income receivable on construction loans included in finance revenue and finance costs amounted to £8 million  
(2008: £12 million). 
6. Finance costs 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Interest payable  
– Bank loans and overdrafts 193 200
– Finance lease charges 5 5
Discount charge on receivables funding arrangements 12 –
Net pension finance cost (note 32) 10 –
Valuation (gains)/losses on financial instruments  
– Derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss (43) (22)
– Loans in a fair value hedging relationship 37 23
– Ineffectiveness recognised in respect of cash flow hedges 1 –
– Change in fair value of available-for-sale investment 2 9
– Available-for-sale investment losses recycled from equity – 13
Total finance costs – continuing operations 217 228
In 2008, the Group determined that an equity holding in Building Materials Holding Corporation categorised as an available-for-
sale investment was impaired. The cumulative loss as at 31 July 2007 of £13 million that had been recognised in equity was 
accordingly recycled from equity and recognised in finance costs in 2008 along with the £9 million fair value reduction 
experienced in the year. A further £2 million impairment has been charged in 2009.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
93
7. Share of after tax loss of associate 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Share of after tax loss of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC before exceptional items (9) –
Share of after tax exceptional items of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC (6) –
Share of after tax loss of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC (15) –
On 6 May 2009 the Group sold 100 per cent of the shares of its subsidiary Stock Building Supply Holdings LLC to Saturn 
Acquisition Holdings LLC in exchange for 49 per cent of the voting rights and common equity of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC 
and nominal consideration. Since 6 May 2009 additional non-voting equity has been issued by Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC 
such that as at 31 July 2009 the Group had a 44.43 per cent interest in its common equity.  
Summarised income statement information in respect of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC for the period from 6 May 2009 to  
31 July 2009 is set out below: 
 
Period ended 
31 July 2009
£m
Revenue 110
Loss after tax (33)
The loss after tax includes an after tax exceptional charge of £14 million relating to further restructuring actions taken by Saturn 
Acquisition Holdings LLC of £60 million, offset by the release of liabilities as part of its Chapter 11 administration process of  
£46 million. The Group’s share of this after tax exceptional charge of £6 million has been recorded as an exceptional item. 
8. Taxation 
The tax (credit)/charge for the year comprises: 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Current year tax charge 139 211
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (9) 15
Total current tax charge 130 226
Deferred tax credit: origination and reversal of temporary differences (164) (69)
Total tax (credit)/charge – continuing operations (34) 157
 
Tax on items credited/(charged) to equity 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Deferred and current tax credit on actuarial loss on retirement benefits 36 37
Deferred tax credit on available-for-sale investments 6 2
Deferred tax charge on available-for-sale investments reclassified and reported in net profit – (6)
Total tax on items credited to equity 42 33
 
Tax reconciliation: 
2009 
% 
2008
(restated)
%
Statutory UK corporation tax rate 28 29
Prior year amounts 2 (5)
Non-deductible amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles (19) 8
Other non deductible and non-taxable items (9) 1
Higher average tax rates in overseas companies 2 6
Effective tax rate on (loss)/profit before tax – continuing operations 4 39
The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed from 30 per cent to 28 per cent with effect from 1 April 2008. 
Accordingly, the Company’s profits were taxed at an effective rate of 29.3 per cent in 2008 and were taxed at an effective rate 
of 28 per cent in 2009.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
94 
8. Taxation continued 
The tax expense can be analysed as follows: 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
UK (26) 78
Overseas 156 148
Current tax – continuing operations 130 226 
UK (49) (38)
Overseas (115) (31)
Deferred tax – continuing operations (164) (69)
9. Discontinued operations 
On 6 May 2009, the Group completed the sale of Stock Building Supply Holdings LLC which comprised the majority of its US 
Building Materials segment. In accordance with IFRS 5, “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations”, this 
business has been classified as discontinued and prior periods have been restated on a consistent basis. 
(a) The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, are as 
follows: 
 
2009
Before
exceptional
items 
£m
2009
Exceptional 
items 
£m
2009
Total 
£m
2008 
Before 
exceptional  
items  
£m 
2008 
Exceptional  
items  
£m 
2008
Total 
£m
Revenue 1,140 – 1,140 1,735 – 1,735
Cost of sales (896) – (896) (1,330) – (1,330)
Gross profit 244 – 244 405 – 405
 Operating expenses:   
  amortisation of acquired intangibles (12) – (12) (30) – (30)
  impairment of acquired intangibles (288) – (288) (114) – (114)
  other (361) (156) (517) (509) (6) (515)
Operating expenses: total (661) (156) (817) (653) (6) (659)
Operating loss before tax (417) (156) (573) (248) (6) (254)
Tax credit 152 61 213 84 2 86
Loss on disposal of Stock – (159) (159) – – –
Tax credit on loss on disposal of Stock –78 78 – – –
Loss from discontinued operations (265) (176) (441) (164) (4) (168)
   
Earnings per share   
Discontinued operations   
Basic loss per share (209.8)p  (93.0)p
Diluted loss per share (209.8)p  (93.0)p
The exceptional items included in operating loss before tax from discontinued operations relate to restructuring actions before 
the disposal and comprise staff redundancy costs of £9 million and provisions for future lease rentals on closed branches and 
asset write-downs of £147 million. 
The loss on disposal of Stock is a provisional figure and may be adjusted when final working capital balances have been agreed 
with the purchaser. Any adjustments that may be required will be recorded in discontinued operations in future.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
95
9. Discontinued operations continued 
 (b) Taxation 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Current year tax credit (75) (54)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years – –
Total current tax credit (75) (54)
Deferred tax credit: origination and reversal of temporary differences (138) (32)
Total tax credit from discontinued operations excluding tax on loss on disposal of Stock (213) (86)
(c) Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the cash flow statement are as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities  (64) 39
Net cash used in investing activities (12) (46)
Net cash used in financing activities – –
Net cash used in discontinued operations (76) (7)
10. Dividends 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Final paid for the year ended 31 July 2008 of nil (year ended 31 July 2007: 21.55 pence) – 141
Interim paid for the year ended 31 July 2009 of nil (year ended 31 July 2008: 11.25 pence) – 74
Total nil (2008: 32.80 pence per share) – 215
Proposed final for the year ended 31 July 2009 of nil (year ended 31 July 2008: nil) – –
11. (Loss)/earnings per share 
Basic loss per share from continuing and discontinued operations of 558.0 pence (2008: earnings per share of 41.0 pence)  
is calculated on the loss for the year attributable to shareholders of £1,173 million (2008: profit of £74 million) on a weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Basic loss per share from continuing operations of 348.2 pence (2008: earnings per share of 134.0 pence) is calculated on the 
loss after tax from continuing operations of £732 million (2008: profit of £242 million) on a weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by Employee Benefit Trusts, of 210 million (2008: restated number of  
181 million). As detailed in note 12 below, the Group believes that profit measures before exceptional items and the amortisation 
and impairment of acquired intangibles provide valuable additional information for users of the financial statements. Basic 
earnings per share from continuing operations, before exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles, has, therefore, been presented in the following table: 
Continuing operations 2009 
2008
(restated)
Before exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 95.6p 240.3p
Add back: exceptional items (net of tax) (170.3)p (24.9)p
Add back: amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles (net of deferred tax) (273.5)p (81.4)p
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (348.2)p 134.0p
The impact of all potentially dilutive share options on earnings per share would be to increase the weighted average number of 
shares in issue to 211 million (2008: restated number of 181 million). The diluted loss per share from continuing operations is 
also 348.2 pence (2008: earnings per share of 133.8 pence). Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles is 95.5 pence (2008: 239.9 pence).  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
96 
12. Non-GAAP measures of performance 
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles. It is a non-GAAP measure. Exceptional items are material non-recurring items which are excluded from trading profit 
to enable a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying financial performance. In addition, the current 
businesses within the Group have arisen through internal organic growth and through acquisition. Operating profit includes only 
the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles arising on those businesses that have been acquired subsequent to  
31 July 2004 and as such does not reflect equally the performance of businesses acquired prior to 31 July 2004 (where no 
amortisation or impairment of acquired intangibles was recognised), businesses that have developed organically (where no 
intangibles are attributed) and those businesses more recently acquired (where amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles is charged).  
The Group believes that trading profit provides valuable additional information for users of the financial statements in assessing 
the Group’s performance since it provides information on the performance of the business that local managers are more directly 
able to influence and on a basis consistent across the Group. The Group uses trading profit and certain key performance 
indicators, calculated by reference to trading profit, for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for its internal 
assessment of the operating performance of individual businesses within the Group. 
Continuing operations 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Operating (loss)/profit (606) 555
Add back: amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 595 162
Add back: exceptional items 458 70
Trading profit 447 787
Loss/(profit) before tax (766) 399
Add back: amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 595 162
Add back: exceptional items 464 70
Profit before tax and exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 293 631
13. Employee information and Directors’ remuneration 
Employee benefit costs 
2009 
£m 
2008
(restated)
£m
Wages and salaries 1,765 1,654
Social security costs 282 261
Pension costs – Defined contribution schemes (note 32) 43 37
Pension costs – Defined benefit schemes (note 32) 32 27
Share options granted to Directors and employees 9 5
Total employee benefit costs – continuing operations 2,131 1,984
Details of Directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 62 to 72, which form part 
of these financial statements. The aggregate emoluments for all key management are set out in note 40. 
Average weekly number of employees 2009 
2008
(restated)
UK and Ireland 13,731 15,372
France 9,666 10,725
Nordic 7,036 7,643
Central and Eastern Europe 2,904 3,965
Europe 33,337 37,705
US plumbing and heating 19,054 22,153
Canada 2,691 2,857
North America plumbing and heating 21,745 25,010
North America loan services 50 59
North America 21,795 25,069
Group – continuing operations 55,132 62,774
The average weekly number of Group and Europe head office employees is included in UK and Ireland in the above table.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
97
14. Intangible assets – goodwill 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 August 2008 2,155
Exchange rate adjustment 250
Disposals and transfers (356)
At 31 July 2009 2,049
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 1 August 2008 160
Exchange rate adjustment 55
Impairment charge for the year 669
Disposals and transfers (349)
At 31 July 2009 535
Net book amount at 31 July 2009 1,514
 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 August 2007 1,892
Exchange rate adjustment 185
Additions 84
Disposals (6)
At 31 July 2008 2,155
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 1 August 2007 2
Exchange rate adjustment 5
Impairment charge for the year 153
At 31 July 2008 160
Net book amount at 31 July 2008 1,995
The carrying value of goodwill by segment is as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
UK and Ireland 299 408
France 245 226
Nordic 475 760
Central and Eastern Europe 45 76
Europe 1,064 1,470
US plumbing and heating 365 305
Canada 85 79
North America plumbing and heating 450 384
North America loan services – –
North America 450 384
Discontinued operations – 141
Group 1,514 1,995
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
98 
14. Intangible assets – goodwill continued 
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations. On transition to IFRS, the balance of goodwill as measured under UK GAAP 
was allocated to cash-generating units (“CGUs”). These are independent sources of income streams, and represent the lowest 
level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes, which may be at country, 
divisional, brand or regional level. Goodwill arising on business combinations after 1 August 2004 has been allocated to the 
CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.  
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. These calculations use cash flow 
projections based on five year financial forecasts approved by management. The key assumptions for these forecasts are those 
regarding revenue growth, net margin and the level of working capital required to support trading, which management estimates 
based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market. To prepare value in use calculations, the cash flow 
forecasts are extrapolated after the five year period at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate for each market 
(ranging from 1 per cent to 4 per cent), and discounted back to present value. The discount rate assumptions use an estimate 
of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, based on the five year historic volatility of Wolseley shares and on benchmark 
interest rates, adjusted for the risk attributable to individual CGUs. The pre-tax discount rate ranges from 11 per cent to  
14 per cent. 
Impairment tests were performed for all CGUs during the year ended 31 July 2009. These impairment reviews have resulted  
in the recording of an impairment charge of £490 million in respect of continuing operations and £288 million in respect of 
discontinued operations relating to goodwill and acquired intangible assets held by the following businesses: 
DT Group (Nordic) 
DT Group has experienced a significant downturn in its markets and is forecasting this to continue over the short and medium 
terms, with a gradual recovery to levels of activity below those it experienced in recent years. As a result of reflecting these 
reduced expectations in its value in use calculations, the Group has recognised a goodwill impairment charge of £359 million  
in respect of the Stark, Silvan and Starkki divisions of DT Group. 
UK 
Wolseley UK has experienced a significant deterioration in its markets in the year and is forecasting this to continue over the 
short and medium term. As a result of reflecting these reduced expectations in its value-in-use calculations, the Group has 
recognised a goodwill impairment charge of £109 million in respect of the Electric Center, Build Center, Brandon Hire and 
Encon divisions of UK and Ireland. 
Benelux (Central and Eastern Europe) 
The Group’s business in Benelux has performed below expectations at the time of the acquisition of the Centratec business  
in Belgium, and the Group has reappraised the likely levels of revenue and margin that can be achieved in the long term.  
An impairment loss of £22 million (goodwill £21 million and other intangible assets £1 million) has been calculated on a  
value-in-use basis. 
Stock (discontinued operations) 
Prior to its disposal, the Group announced its intention to exit the US Building Materials sector and performed an impairment 
review at that time. Accordingly, the Group regarded Stock as a single CGU and considered it appropriate to write off all the 
remaining goodwill and intangible assets of the business, resulting in an impairment charge of £288 million (goodwill £180 million 
and other intangible assets £108 million).  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
99
15. Intangible assets – other 
 
Software 
£m
Trade names 
and brands 
£m
Customer 
relationships  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m
Cost   
At 1 August 2008 205 323 657 43 1,228
Exchange rate adjustment 4 22 103 5 134
Additions 77–– – 77
Disposals and transfers (3) (4) (234) (7) (248)
At 31 July 2009 283 341 526 41 1,191
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses   
At 1 August 2008 50 61 257 19 387
Exchange rate adjustment 2 5 46 – 53
Amortisation charge for the year 19 25 84 8 136
Impairment charge for the year 43 1 106 2 152
Disposals and transfers (3) (4) (233) (6) (246)
At 31 July 2009 111 88 260 23 482
Net book amount at 31 July 2009 172 253 266 18 709
 
 
Software 
£m
Trade names
and brands 
£m
Customer  
relationships  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m
Cost   
At 1 August 2007 107 281 570 23 981
Exchange rate adjustment 2 40 37 8 87
Additions 99250 12 163
Disposals (3)–– – (3)
At 31 July 2008 205 323 657 43 1,228
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses   
At 1 August 2007 23 24 136 8 191
Exchange rate adjustment – 4 10 2 16
Amortisation charge for the year 15 24 102 9 150
Impairment change for the year 15 9 9 – 33
Disposals (3)–– – (3)
At 31 July 2008 50 61 257 19 387
Net book amount at 31 July 2008 155 262 400 24 841
Software assets are generally either purchases from third parties or internally generated. Other intangible assets arise on 
business combinations. Included in the amounts above are £134 million (2008: £132 million) relating to assets under 
construction. 
The Group continues to restrict capital expenditure on its Business Change Programme and as a consequence, certain 
software assets under development with a book value of £41 million will not be implemented and used as was originally 
intended and have therefore been impaired. In addition a further £2 million of software assets have been impaired as a result of 
restructuring actions. 
More details on the impairment charge for the year in respect of trade names and brands and customer relationships is 
provided in note 14.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
100 
16. Property, plant and equipment 
 Land and buildings  
 
Freehold 
£m
Finance 
lease 
£m
Operating  
leasehold  
improvements  
£m 
Plant  
machinery  
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Cost   
At 1 August 2008 1,329 79 270 1,157 2,835
Exchange rate adjustment 133 8 37 169 347
Disposal of businesses (73) – (21) (209) (303)
Additions 2819 56 94
Disposals and transfers (78) (5) (33) (167) (283)
Property reclassified as held for sale (35) – – (20) (55)
At 31 July 2009 1,304 83 262 986 2,635
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2008 191 17 127 658 993
Exchange rate adjustment 20 2 15 110 147
Disposal of businesses (22) – (13) (168) (203)
Depreciation charge for the year   
– owned assets 40 – – 139 179
– leased assets – 3 31 15 49
Impairment charge for the year   
– owned assets 19 – – 27 46
– leased assets – 9 3 – 12
Disposals and transfers (14) (5) (16) (125) (160)
Property reclassified as held for sale (6) – – (15) (21)
At 31 July 2009 228 26 147 641 1,042
Owned assets 1,076 – 115 311 1,502
Assets under finance leases – 57 – 34 91
Net book amount – 31 July 2009 1,076 57 115 345 1,593
Net book amount – 1 August 2008 1,138 62 143 499 1,842
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
101
16. Property, plant and equipment continued 
  Land and buildings  
 
Freehold 
£m
Finance 
lease 
£m
Operating  
leasehold  
improvements  
£m 
Plant  
machinery  
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Cost   
At 1 August 2007 1,155 66 273 1,033 2,527
Exchange rate adjustment 118 10 7 56 191
New businesses 14 5 1 3 23
Additions 74–28 133 235
Disposals and transfers (14) (2) (39) (68) (123)
Property reclassified as held for sale (18) – – – (18)
At 31 July 2008 1,329 79 270 1,157 2,835
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 August 2007 152 14 104 539 809
Exchange rate adjustment 16 1 2 27 46
Charge for the year   
– owned assets 31 – 28 136 195
– leased assets – 2 – 15 17
Disposals and transfers (7) – (7) (59) (73)
Property reclassified as held for sale (1) – – – (1)
At 31 July 2008 191 17 127 658 993
Owned assets 1,138 – 143 454 1,735
Assets under finance leases –62– 45 107
Net book amount – 31 July 2008 1,138 62 143 499 1,842
Net book amount – 1 August 2007 1,003 52 169 494 1,718
Included in the amounts above are £8 million (2008: £39 million) relating to assets under construction. At 31 July 2009,  
£307 million of property, plant and equipment had been pledged as security for liabilities (2008: £318 million). 
The impairment charge recorded in the year is primarily comprised of the impairment of assets in branches that have been 
closed in the year due to restructuring actions. 
17. Investment in associate 
 £m
At 1 August 2008 –
Additions  71
Exchange rate adjustment (3)
Share of retained loss for the period (15)
At 31 July 2009 53
On 6 May 2009 the Group sold 100 per cent of the shares of its subsidiary Stock Building Supply Holdings LLC to Saturn 
Acquisition Holdings LLC, a company incorporated in the USA, in exchange for 49 per cent of the voting rights and common 
equity of Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC and nominal consideration. Since 6 May 2009 additional non-voting equity has  
been issued by Saturn Acquisition Holdings LLC such that as at 31 July 2009 the Group had a 44.43 per cent interest in its 
common equity.  
The associate has a financial year ending 31 December. Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s 
associate as at 31 July 2009 is set out below: 
 
2009
£m
Total assets 397
Total liabilities (278)
Net assets 119
Group’s share of associate’s net assets 53
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
102 
18. Financial assets – available-for-sale investments 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Financial assets 3 4
These assets comprise tradeable government securities and equity investments in unlisted companies. They are mainly 
denominated in euros. 
19. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
The deferred tax assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are analysed as follows: 
Deferred tax 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Deferred tax assets 244 52
Deferred tax liabilities (176) (235)
 68 (183)
Current (19) (31)
Non-current 87 (152)
 68 (183)
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the 
current and prior reporting period: 
 
Goodwill  
and  
intangibles  
£m 
Share-based 
payment 
£m
Properties 
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£m
Inventory 
£m
Tax  
assets  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m
At 1 August 2007 (161) 10 (128) 40 (62) 17 18 (266)
Credit/(charge) to income 59 (18) 33 (2) 1 12 16 101
Credit/(charge) to equity – – – 33 – – (4) 29
Acquisition of 
subsidiaries (20) –(1)– – – 1 (20)
Currency translation 
adjustment (18) 1 (15) 2 1 1 1 (27)
At 31 July 2008 (140) (7) (111) 73 (60) 30 32 (183)
Credit to income 111 9 40 4 31 17 90 302
Credit to equity – 1 – 30 – – 6 37
Disposal of subsidiaries (111) (1) 3 (1) (6) 112 (51) (55)
Currency translation 
adjustment (10) –(9)5(14)(8) 3 (33)
At 31 July 2009 (150) 2 (77) 111 (49) 151 80 68
Tax losses in the USA, UK and France have been recognised on the basis that following restructuring in the current period they 
are forecast to return to taxable profit in the future. 
There are other potential deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses totalling £96 million (2008: £93 million) that have not been 
recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain. The tax losses in Italy of £13 million and the Czech 
Republic of £14 million expire after five years. The remaining tax losses of £69 million can be carried forward indefinitely. 
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of a further £567 million (2008: £679 million) of unremitted earnings of 
subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of reversal of the associated temporary deferred tax 
differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. It is likely that the majority of the 
overseas earnings would qualify for the UK dividend exemption and therefore no tax liability is expected to arise. 
20. Inventories 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Goods purchased for resale 1,624 2,025
£9,438 million has been charged to operating profit in relation to inventories recognised as an expense in the year (2008: 
£10,219 million). In addition an amount of £13 million has been credited to the income statement to reverse write downs of 
inventories to net realisable value (2008: credit of £21 million) following the reduction in inventory levels since 31 July 2008.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
103
21. Trade and other receivables 
Current 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Trade receivables 1,722 2,479
Less: provision for impairment (81) (79)
Net trade receivables 1,641 2,400
Other receivables 111 97
Prepayments and accrued income 231 307
 1,983 2,804
 
Non-current  
Other receivables 116 96
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 79 55
Disposals (24) –
Charge for the year 119 85
Utilised in the year (100) (67)
Exchange 7 6
At 31 July 81 79
Provisions for impairment of receivables are made locally, and have two components: 
• a provision for amounts that have been individually determined not to be collectible in full, because of known financial 
difficulties of the debtor or evidence of default or delinquency in payment, amounting to £66 million at 31 July 2009 (2008: 
£57 million); and  
• a provision based on historic experience of non-collectability of receivables, amounting to £15 million at 31 July 2009 (2008: 
£22 million). 
Concentration of credit risk in trade receivables is limited as the Group’s customer base is large and unrelated. Accordingly, 
management consider that there is no further credit risk provision required above the current provision for impairment.  
Trade receivables can be aged with respect to the payment terms specified in the terms and conditions established with 
customers as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Amounts not yet due 876 1,269
Past due not more than one month 530 763
Past due more than one month and less than three months 211 316
Past due more than three months and less than six months 25 40
Past due more than six months 14 34
Amounts individually determined to be impaired 66 57
 1,722 2,479
Other receivables include an amount of £42 million (2008: £36 million) which has been discounted at a rate of 4.3 per cent 
(2008: 4.6 per cent) due to the long-term nature of the receivable. The fair value of the remaining balances in trade and other 
receivables approximates to book value.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
104 
21. Trade and other receivables continued 
The currency analysis of current trade and other receivables is as follows:  
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling  475 598
US dollar 668 1,091
Euro 475 729
Other 365 386
Total 1,983 2,804
The currency analysis of non-current trade and other receivables is as follows:  
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling  1 2
US dollar 93 82
Euro 15 4
Other 7 8
Total 116 96
22. Financial assets: trading investments 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
US Life Assurance policies (denominated in US dollars) – 5
Short-term securities (denominated in Danish Krone) 155 –
Total 155 5
The short-term securities, which are stated at market value, have an effective interest rate of 3.9 per cent and fall due by 
January 2010. 
23. Derivative financial instruments 
Non-current assets 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 34 –
Derivative financial assets 34 –
 
Current assets 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 4 5
Interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges – 10
Currency swaps: at fair value through profit and loss 7 –
Currency swaps: net investment hedges 12 1
Derivative financial assets 23 16
 
Current liabilities 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges (14) (8)
Currency swaps: net investment hedges (11) –
Derivative financial liabilities (25) (8)
 
Non-current liabilities 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges (11) –
Derivative financial liabilities (11) – Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
105
23. Derivative financial instruments continued 
Interest rate swaps 
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its borrowings. The fair value of 
interest rate swaps is estimated on the basis of the market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.  
The Group’s bank borrowings generally attract variable interest rates based on six-month LIBOR. Interest rate swap contracts 
comprising fixed interest payable on notional principal of €900 million (2008: $300 million and €1,000 million) and basis point 
swaps with notional principal of €900 million (2008: $300 million and €400 million) are designated and effective as cash flow 
hedges, with the valuation gains being deferred in equity until realised. The contracts expire between August 2009 and August 
2011 (2008: September 2008 and August 2011), and the fixed interest rates range between 2.59 per cent and 4.59 per cent 
(2008: 2.49 per cent and 5.42 per cent). 
Hedge of interest rate cash flows 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 2 9
Valuation losses on effective hedges charged to equity (20) –
Valuation losses charged to income statement (1) –
Cash settlements in the period (5) (8)
Exchange (1) 1
At 31 July (25) 2
The Group’s private placement borrowings are at fixed rates. Interest rate swaps contracts comprising fixed interest receivable 
on notional principal of $729 million (2008: $729 million) are designated as hedges of the fair values of these borrowings. The 
movement in fair value of these interest rate swaps has been analysed into a proportion that is effective as a hedge, and a 
proportion that is ineffective; both portions have been charged to the income statement with the effective portion offsetting the 
change in fair value of the hedged borrowings (see note 6). The contracts expire between November 2012 and November 2020 
and the fixed interest rates range between 4.93 per cent and 5.32 per cent (2008: 4.93 per cent and 5.32 per cent). 
Hedge of fair value of fixed interest borrowings 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 5 (17)
Valuation gains credited to income statement 36 22
Exchange (3) –
At 31 July 38 5
Currency swaps 
The Group uses currency swaps either to obtain the optimum return on its surplus funds or to hedge cash flows in respect of 
committed transactions. The fair value of currency swaps has been estimated as the cost of closing out the contracts using 
market prices at the balance sheet date.  
At fair value through income statement 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August – –
Valuation gains credited to income statement 7 –
At 31 July 7 –
At the balance sheet date the Group had entered into certain short-term currency swaps as follows: 
 2009   2008
 
Currency 
million £m  
Currency 
million £m
Bought forward DKK 1,716 196  DKK 1,508 159
Sold forward SEK 1,464 (122)  SEK 1,274 (106)
 EUR 70 (60)  EUR 57 (45)
 NOK 41 (4)  NOK 65 (6)
 USD 5 (3)  USD 4 (2)
 7   –
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
106 
23. Derivative financial instruments continued 
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 1 –
Valuation (losses)/gains on effective hedges credited to equity (36) 1
Cash settlements in the period 36 –
At 31 July 1 1
At the balance sheet date the Group had entered into certain short-term currency swaps and forward contracts which were 
designated and effective as hedges of overseas operations as follows: 
 2009   2008
 
Currency 
million £m  
Currency 
million £m
Bought forward EUR 585 500  DKK 1,784 188
 DKK 720 82  GBP 119 119
 CZK 95 3  USD 178 90
   Other 10
Sold forward GBP 251 (251)  EUR 459 (361)
 USD 380 (227)  CAD 91 (45)
 CAD 135 (75)   
 CHF 56 (31)   
 1   1
Valuation gains or losses have been deferred in equity. 
24. Construction loans 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Construction loan receivables (secured) 202 255
Less: provision for impairment (39) (18)
Net construction loan receivables  163 237
Borrowings to finance construction loan receivables (unsecured) (163) (237)
 – –
Construction loan receivables are secured principally against homes in the course of construction or completed homes awaiting 
sale and are all denominated in US dollars. These loans are generally settled when completed homes are sold, rather than at a 
fixed term. The average age since origination is 20 months (2008: 14 months). As the contractual maturity of these loans, which 
did not exceed 12 months from the reporting date, was set at origination to correspond to the normal operating cycle of the 
construction business, and the Group expects to realise the loans within their contractual maturity, these loans have all been 
classified as current assets. 
As at 31 July 2009, the effective rate of interest thereon was 8 per cent (2008: 9 per cent). The fair value of construction loan 
receivables and borrowings to finance construction loans approximates to book value. 
Movements in the provision for impairment of construction loan receivables are as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 18 5
Charge for the year – before exceptional items 13 20
Charge for the year – exceptional 25 –
Utilised in the year (17) (7)
At 31 July 39 18
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
107
24. Construction loans continued 
Construction loan receivables on which payments are delinquent are subject to foreclosure of the property on which the  
loan is secured, such that the disposal proceeds of the property can be applied in settlement of the outstanding liability.  
After foreclosure, the balance of receivables net of provisions for impairment is transferred to assets held for sale.  
Provisions for impairments of receivables comprise:  
• a provision for amounts that have been individually determined not to be collectable in full, because of known financial 
difficulties of the debtor or evidence of default or delinquency in payment, amounting to £13 million at 31 July 2009 (2008:  
£6 million); and  
• a provision based on historic experience of the shortfall of disposal proceeds of foreclosed properties to the outstanding 
balance due, amounting to £26 million at 31 July 2009 (2008: £12 million). 
Management consider that there is no further credit risk provision required above the current provision for impairment.  
In addition to the exceptional charge of £25 million for impairment of construction loan receivables shown above, an exceptional 
charge of £6 million was made to write down assets held for sale to their recoverable amount. 
Construction loan receivables can be aged with respect to the payment terms specified in the terms and conditions established 
with customers as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Amounts not yet due 107 186
Past due not more than one month 20 22
Past due more than one month and less than three months 10 12
Past due more than three months and less than six months 10 6
Past due more than six months 42 23
Amounts individually determined to be impaired 13 6
 202 255
Construction loan receivables at 31 July 2009 includes £54 million in respect of loans on which foreclosure proceedings have 
been started (2008: £24 million). The fair value of collateral held in respect of construction loans receivable is sufficient to cover 
the net amount of construction loans receivable. During the year ended 31 July 2009 disposal proceeds of £36 million (2008: 
£10 million) were realised from the sale of foreclosed properties, in respect of loans with a carrying value of £46 million (2008: 
£12 million). 
25. Cash and cash equivalents  
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Cash and cash equivalents  277 216
Short-term bank deposits 358 105
Total cash and cash equivalents 635 321
The effective interest rate as at 31 July 2009 on cash and cash equivalents was 0.5 per cent (2008: 3.1 per cent). The average 
maturity of short-term bank deposits was three days (2008: 12 days). The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate 
to book value due to their short maturities. 
Cash and cash equivalents includes an amount of £3 million held in escrow to settle deferred consideration on acquisitions 
(2008: £5 million).  
As of 31 July 2008, cash deposits amounting to £65 million were charged in favour of Lloyds TSB Bank plc to secure letters of 
credit provided by that bank. 
The currency analysis of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling  218 54
US dollar 263 149
Euro 101 90
Other 53 28
Total 635 321
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
108 
26. Assets and liabilities held for sale 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Properties awaiting disposal  73 43
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 15 –
Assets held for sale 88 43
  
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 15 –
Properties awaiting disposal at 31 July 2009 includes £43 million relating to properties obtained after foreclosing on construction 
loans (2008: £27 million). 
On 27 July 2009 the Group announced that it had decided to sell its businesses in Belgium, Slovakia and the Czech Republic 
included in the Central and Eastern Europe segment. A sale process has commenced and accordingly these businesses have 
been classified as disposal groups held for sale. 
27. Trade and other payables 
Current 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Trade payables 1,847 2,053
Bills of exchange payable 166 264
Other tax and social security 92 115
Other payables 176 154
Accruals 302 360
Deferred income 3 10
Total trade and other payables 2,586 2,956
 
Non-current  
Other payables 59 68
The fair value of other payables falling due after more than one year is estimated at £59 million (2008: £68 million).   Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
109
28. Bank loans and overdrafts 
Current 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank overdrafts 37 118
Bank loans 5 31
Senior unsecured loan notes – 127
Total bank loans and overdrafts 42 276
The fair values of current overdrafts approximate to book value due to their short maturities. 
The currency analysis of bank loans and overdrafts is as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
US dollar 7 198
Euro 35 50
Other currencies – 28
Total 42 276
 
Non-current 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank loans 1,051 1,960
Senior unsecured notes 606 480
Total bank loans 1,657 2,440
£216 million of the bank loans are secured against the Group’s freehold property (2008: £212 million). 
The non-current loans are repayable as follows: 
 £m £m
Due in one to two years 125 2
Due in two to three years 830 106
Due in three to four years 51 1,625
Due in four to five years 1 159
Due in over five years 650 548
Total 1,657 2,440
At 31 July 2009, loans with a par value of £560 million carried a fixed interest rate (2008: £600 million). The weighted average 
interest rate paid on fixed interest borrowings is 5.1 per cent (2008: 5.0 per cent). Interest receipts and payments on the floating 
rate assets and liabilities are determined by reference to short-term benchmark rates applicable to the relevant currency or 
market, such as LIBOR. 
The fair value of fixed interest rate loans is £613 million, compared to their carrying value of £606 million (2008: £602 million 
compared to their book value of £600 million). The floating rate loans payable after one year generally attract variable interest 
rates based on six-month LIBOR. Thus the fair value of these instruments approximates to their book value. 
The currency analysis of non-current loans is as follows:  
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling  – –
US dollar 713 646
Euro 632 1,464
Other currencies 312 330
Total 1,657 2,440
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
110 
28. Bank loans and overdrafts continued 
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations 
The Group has financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies which have been designated as hedges of the net 
investment in its subsidiaries in North America and Europe. The value of these financial instruments at the balance sheet date 
was £1,551 million (2008: £2,833 million). 
The loss on translation of the borrowings into sterling of £381 million (2008: gain of £283 million) has been taken to the 
translation reserve. 
29. Financial instruments and financial risk management 
(a) Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the following items: 
Assets at 31 July 2009 
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Derivatives
used for 
hedging
£m
Fair value  
through  
profit or loss 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other receivables – non-current –116 – – – 116
Available-for-sale investments – ––– 3 3
Trade and other receivables – current – 1,752 – – – 1,752
Trading investments –– – 155 – 155
Derivative financial assets – non-current – – 34 – – 34
Derivative financial assets – current – – 23 – – 23
Construction loan receivables –163 – – – 163
Cash 635 – – – – 635
 635 2,031 57 155 3 2,881
Impairment losses in the year –157 – – – 157
 
Liabilities as at 31 July 2009 
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m 
Other 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other payables – 2,248 2,248
Construction loans borrowings – 163 163
Bank loans and overdrafts – 1,699 1,699
Finance lease obligations – 71 71
Derivative financial liabilities 36 – 36
 36 4,181 4,217
 
Assets at 31 July 2008 
Cash 
and cash 
equivalents
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Derivatives
used for 
hedging
£m
Fair value  
through  
profit or loss 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other receivables – non-current – 96 – – – 96
Available-for-sale investments – – – – 4 4
Trade and other receivables – current – 2,804 – – – 2,804
Trading investments – – – 5 – 5
Derivative financial assets – – 16 – – 16
Construction loan receivables – 237 – – – 237
Cash 321––– – 321
 3213,137165 4 3,483
Impairment losses in the year – 116 – – 22 138
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
111
29. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
Liabilities as at 31 July 2008 
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
£m 
Other financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m
Trade and other payables – 3,024 3,024
Construction loans borrowings – 237 237
Bank loans and overdrafts – 2,716 2,716
Finance lease obligations – 87 87
Derivative financial liabilities 8 – 8
 8 6,064 6,072
(b) Financial risk management 
The Group is exposed to market risks arising from its international operations, and the financial instruments which fund them. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The 
Group has well defined policies for the management of interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and counterparty exposures, 
which have been consistently applied during the financial years ended 31 July 2008 and 2009. By the nature of its business the 
Group also has trade credit and commodity price exposures, the management of which is delegated to operating businesses. 
There has been no change since the year end in the major financial risks faced by the Group. 
The Treasury Committee of the Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised 
below. These policies are regularly reviewed. The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, 
cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables, that arise directly from its 
operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions (principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency 
contracts). The purpose of such transactions is to hedge certain interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s 
operations and its sources of finance. 
Derivatives are also used to a limited extent to hedge movements in the price paid for lumber. These options and futures 
hedging contracts mature within one year and all are with organised exchanges. The Group’s policy is to control credit risk by 
only entering into financial instruments with authorised counterparties after taking account of their credit rating. It is, and has 
been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions 
be undertaken. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s sources of funding currently comprise cash flows generated by operations, equity contributed by shareholders and 
borrowings from banks and other financial institutions. To assess the appropriateness of its capital structure to current and 
forecast trading, the Group’s principal measure of financial gearing is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation and amortisation). The Group aims to maintain this ratio in the range of 1.50 to 2.25. The Group’s main 
borrowing facilities all contain a financial covenant limiting the ratio of net debt to EBITDA to 3.5:1. As at 31 July 2009 the ratio 
was 1.4:1 (2008: 2.7:1). In addition, the Group monitors the ratio of net debt to shareholders’ funds such that it is consistent 
with the Group’s targeted ratio of net debt to EBITDA. At 31 July 2009 the ratio of net debt to shareholders’ funds was  
28.4 per cent (2008: 73.5 per cent). 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amounts of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group maintains a policy of ensuring sufficient borrowing headroom to finance all investment and bolt-on acquisitions for 
the following financial year with an additional contingent safety margin. Large acquisitions are funded shortly before the 
acquisition is made. 
As at 31 July 2009, the Group had undrawn centrally managed facilities maturing as follows:  
 
2009  
facility 
£m 
2008 
facility
£m
Less than one year 100 200
Between two and three years 683 –
Between three and four years 43 759
Between four and five years 852 200
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
112 
29. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
The Group has estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of its bank and 
construction loan borrowings on an undiscounted basis. The principal assumptions are that floating rate interest is calculated 
using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date, and cash flows in foreign currency are translated using spot rates at 
the balance sheet date. These cash flows can be analysed by maturity as follows:  
As at 31 July 2009 
Debt
£m
Construction 
loan 
borrowings
£m
Interest on 
debt 
£m 
Interest rate 
and currency 
swaps 
£m 
Total
£m
Due in less than one year 5 163 61 29 258
Due in one to two years 125 – 56 6 187
Due in two to three years 830 – 33 1 864
Due in three to four years 49 – 30 – 79
Due in four to five years 1 – 29 – 30
Due in over five years 614 – 188 – 802
Total 1,624 163 397 36 2,220
 
As at 31 July 2008 
Debt
£m
Construction 
loan 
borrowings
£m
Interest on 
debt 
£m 
Interest rate 
swaps
£m
Total
£m
Due in less than one year 274 237 122 8 641
Due in one to two years 2 – 116 – 118
Due in two to three years 106 – 112 – 218
Due in three to four years 1,625 – 40 – 1,665
Due in four to five years 159 – 31 – 190
Due in over five years 548 – 166 – 714
Total 2,714237587 83,546
During the year ended 31 July 2009 facilities amounting to £1,017 million matured, were cancelled or were repaid early.  
A forward start multi-currency syndicated facility of €1 billion (£853 million) was arranged, which was a restatement and 
extension of the Group’s existing €2.8 billion facility. This facility will commence when the existing facility matures on  
1 August 2011 or is cancelled by the Group prior to this date, and will expire on 1 August 2013. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group has significant overseas businesses whose revenues are mainly denominated in the currencies of the countries in 
which the operations are located. Approximately 40 per cent of the Group’s revenue is in US dollars and 24 per cent in euros. 
The Group does not have significant transactional foreign currency cash flow exposure. However, those that do arise are 
generally hedged with either forward contracts or currency options. The Group does not normally hedge profit translation 
exposure since such hedges have only temporary effect. 
Most of the foreign currency earnings generated by the Group’s overseas operations are reinvested in the business to fund 
growth in those territories. The Group’s policy for the year ended 31 July 2009 and subsequently is to adjust the currencies in 
which its debt is denominated to match the currencies in which its trading profits are generated, as this hedges the ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA in the covenant calculation. Net debt at 31 July 2009 can be analysed by currency as follows: 
As at 31 July 2009 
Trading 
investment
£m
Interest 
rate swaps
£m
Finance lease 
obligations
£m
Cash, 
overdrafts 
and bank 
loans 
£m 
Currency 
bought/(sold)  
forward 
£m 
Total
£m
Sterling – – (4) 218 (251) (37)
US dollars – 38 (11) (457) (230) (660)
Euros – (25) (49) (566) 440 (200)
Other 155 – (7) (259) 49 (62)
Total 155 13 (71) (1,064) 8 (959)
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
113
29. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
The Group’s policy for the year ended 31 July 2008 and earlier was to maintain the majority of its debt in the currencies of its 
operating companies as this hedged both the net assets and cash flows of the Group. Net debt at 31 July 2008 could be 
analysed by currency as follows: 
As at 31 July 2008 
Trading 
investment
£m
Interest 
rate swaps
£m
Finance lease 
obligations
£m
Cash, 
overdrafts  
and bank  
loans 
£m 
Currency 
bought/(sold)  
forward 
£m 
Total
£m
Sterling ––(4)54 119 169
US dollars 5 1 (21) (695) 89 (621)
Euros –6(52)(1,424) (361) (1,831)
Other ––(10)(330) 154 (186)
Total 57(87)(2,395) 1 (2,469)
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of overseas earnings and of year-end exchange rates used in the 
translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by the Group, are shown in the Five year summary on 
page 141. The net effect of currency translation was to increase revenue by £2,439 million (16.5 per cent) (2008: £324 million, 
or 2.0 per cent) and to increase trading profit by £147 million (18.7 per cent) (2008: £18 million, or 2.0 per cent). These currency 
effects reflect a movement of the average sterling exchange rate against each of the major currencies with which the Group is 
involved as follows: 
 
2009 
(Strengthening)  
weakening  
of sterling 
2008
(Strengthening) 
weakening 
of sterling
US dollar 27.3% (2.6)%
Euros 16.2% 10.0%
Interest rate risk 
To manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations, the Group’s policy is that at least 20 per cent of bank borrowings 
required during the next two years should be at fixed rates. The Group borrows in the desired currencies principally at floating 
rates of interest and then uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile. 
The Group reviews deposits and borrowings by currency at both Treasury Committee and Board meetings. The Treasury 
Committee gives prior approval to any variations from floating rate arrangements. 
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are exposed to both fair value interest rate risk (fixed rate borrowings) and cash flow 
interest rate risk (floating rate borrowings). The interest rate profile of the Group’s net debt at 31 July 2009 and 31 July 2008, 
after including the effect of interest rate swaps, is set out in the following tables. 
As at 31 July 2009 – currency Floating Fixed Total
Sterling (33) (4) (37)
US dollars (479) (181) (660)
Euros 471 (671) (200)
Other currencies (55) (7) (62)
Total (96) (863) (959)
 
As at 31 July 2008 – currency Floating Fixed Total
Sterling 173 (4) 169
US dollars (226) (395) (621)
Euros (984) (847) (1,831)
Other currencies (176) (10) (186)
Total (1,213) (1,256) (2,469)
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
114 
29. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
Credit risk 
Wolseley provides sales on credit terms to many of its customers. There is an associated risk that customers may not be able to 
pay outstanding balances. North American Loan Services also provides loans to finance the construction of properties. There is 
an associated risk that customers may not be able to pay outstanding loan balances. At 31 July 2009 the maximum exposure 
to credit risk was £2,031 million (2008: £2,830 million) of which £163 million (2008: £237 million) is secured against homes 
under construction or completed homes awaiting sale. 
Each of the businesses have established procedures in place to review and collect outstanding receivables. Significant 
outstanding and overdue balances are reviewed on a regular basis and resulting actions are put in place on a timely basis.  
In many cases, protection is provided through lien rights on projects, or through credit insurance arrangements. All of the major 
businesses use professional, dedicated credit teams, in some cases field-based. Historic write-off rates are low and appropriate 
provisions are made for debts that may be impaired on a timely basis. 
North American Loan Services’ construction loans are secured on the related properties and are managed by a dedicated 
lending team within that business. Policies are also applied to provide further protection and KPIs are monitored regularly by 
management outside the business. 
The Group has cash balances deposited for short periods with financial institutions, and enters into certain contracts (such as 
interest rate swaps) which entitle the Group to receive future cash flows from financial institutions. These transactions give  
rise to credit risk on amounts due from counterparties with a maximum exposure of £850 million (2008: £346 million).  
This risk is managed by setting credit and settlement limits for a panel of approved counterparties, all of which have credit 
ratings equivalent to Standard & Poor’s A or higher. The limits are approved by the Treasury Committee and ratings are 
monitored regularly. 
Market price risk 
The Group monitors its interest rate and currency risk by reviewing the effect on financial instruments over various periods of a 
range of possible changes in interest rates and exchange rates. On the basis of the Group’s analysis, it is estimated that the 
maximum effect of a rise of one percentage point in the principal interest rates on the Group’s continuing businesses would 
result in a charge to the income statement of £4 million (2008: £25 million) and a charge to equity of £4 million (2008: £9 million). 
Similarly, it is estimated that a weakening of sterling by 10 per cent against all the currencies in which the Group does business 
would result in a charge to the income statement of £2 million (2008: nil) and a charge to equity of £122 million (2008:  
£293 million). 
The Group does not require operating businesses to adhere to a formalised risk management policy in respect of trade credit 
risk or commodity price risk, and does not consider that there is a useful way of quantifying the Group’s exposure to any of the 
macro-economic variables that might affect the collectability of receivables or the prices of commodities. 
30. Obligations under finance leases 
 
Gross 
2009
£m
Gross  
2008 
£m  
Net  
2009 
£m 
Net 
2008
£m
Due within one year 15 24  12 19
Due in one to five years 48 59  36 44
Due in over five years 34 34  23 24
 97 117  71 87
Less: future finance charges (26) (30)   
Present value of finance lease obligations 71 87   
Current    12 19
Non-current    59 68
Total obligations under finance leases   71 87
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases. The average lease term is nine 
years (2008: eight years). For the year ended 31 July 2009, the average effective borrowing rate was 5.6 per cent (2008:  
5.5 per cent). Finance lease obligations included above are secured against the assets concerned. 
The currency analysis of the present value of finance lease obligations is as follows:  
 
Net  
2009 
£m 
Net 
2008
£m
Sterling  4 4
US dollars 11 21
Euros 49 52
Other currencies 7 10
 71 87 Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
115
31. Provisions  
Environmental 
and legal
£m
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 August 2007 42 48 15 25 130
Utilised in the year (1) (15) (16) (3) (35)
Charge for the year – 17 49 11 77
New businesses – – – – –
Exchange differences 1 1 2 2 6
At 31 July 2008 42 51 50 35 178
Utilised in the year (6) (22) (100) (15) (143)
Charge for the year 16 20 354 25 415
Disposal of businesses (1) – (106) (1) (108)
Exchange differences 7 8 4 5 24
At 31 July 2009 58 57 202 49 366
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 
At 31 July 2009 
Environmental 
and legal
£m
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m
Current  6 16 79 21 122
Non-current  52 41 123 28 244
Total provisions 58 57 202 49 366
 
At 31 July 2008 
Environmental 
and legal
£m
Wolseley 
Insurance
£m
 
Restructuring 
£m 
Other 
provisions  
£m 
Total
£m
Current  3 15 36 6 60
Non-current  39 36 14 29 118
Total provisions 42 51 50 35 178
Wolseley Insurance provisions represent an estimate, based on historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding 
claims and claims incurred but not reported on certain risks retained by the Group (principally US casualty and global property 
damage).  
The environmental and legal provision includes known and potential legal claims and environmental liabilities arising from past 
events where it is probable that a payment will be made and the amount of such payment can be reasonably estimated. 
Included in this provision is an amount of £42 million (2008: £36 million) related to asbestos litigation involving certain Group 
companies. This amount has been actuarially determined as at 31 July 2009 based on advice from independent professional 
advisers. Asbestos related litigation is covered by insurance and accordingly an equivalent insurance receivable has been 
recorded in other receivables (note 21). The provision and the related receivable have been stated on a discounted basis using 
a long-term discount rate of 4.3 per cent (2008: 4.6 per cent). The level of insurance cover available significantly exceeds  
the expected level of future claims and no material profit or cash flow impact is expected to arise in the foreseeable future.  
There were 273 claims outstanding at 31 July 2009 (2008: 293). 
Restructuring provisions include provisions for staff redundancy costs, future lease rentals on closed branches and asset  
write-downs. In determining the provision for onerous leases, the cash flows have been discounted on a pre-tax basis using 
appropriate government bond rates. The weighted average maturity of these obligations is approximately five years. 
Other provisions mainly consist of separation costs relating to the disposal of Stock, rental commitments on vacant properties 
other than those arising from restructuring actions, dilapidations on leased properties and warranties. The weighted average 
maturity of these obligations is approximately four years.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
116 
32. Retirement benefit obligations 
(i) Description of plans 
United Kingdom 
The principal scheme operated for UK employees is the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan which provides benefits 
based on final pensionable salaries. The assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The scheme’s retirement 
benefits are funded by a salary sacrifice arrangement from employees with the balance being paid by Group companies. 
Employees salary sacrifice either 5 per cent or 8 per cent of earnings depending on the level of benefits accruing. The Group 
contribution rate is calculated on the Projected Unit Method and agreed with an independent consulting actuary. During the 
year, this scheme was closed to new members and a defined contribution plan was established. However employees in the 
eligibility period on 31 May 2009 are still able to join when they reach the end of their eligibility period. 
Outside the United Kingdom 
North America 
The principal schemes operated for US employees are defined contribution schemes, which are established in accordance with 
US 401k rules. Companies contribute to both employee compensation deferral and profit sharing plans. Contributions are 
charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due. In the year to 31 July 2009 the cost of defined contribution 
plans of continuing operations charged to the income statement was £21 million (2008: £17 million). 
In addition, the Group operates two defined benefit schemes in the United States. In Canada, a defined benefit scheme and a 
defined contribution scheme are operated. One of the US schemes and the Canadian scheme are funded; two plans are closed 
to new entrants. The majority of assets are held in trustee administered funds independent of the assets of the companies.  
The closed plans now provide a minimum pension guarantee in conjunction with a defined contribution scheme. The remaining 
schemes provide benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The contribution rate is calculated on the Projected Unit (credit) 
Method as agreed with independent consulting actuaries.  
Europe 
Both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes are operated. Liabilities arising under defined benefit schemes are 
calculated in accordance with actuarial advice. Contributions to defined contribution schemes are accounted for in the period in 
which they fall due. In the year to 31 July 2009 the cost of defined contribution schemes charged to the income statement was 
£22 million (2008: £20 million). 
Post-retirement healthcare 
There are no material obligations to provide post-retirement healthcare benefits. 
The Group expects to contribute £40 million to the UK defined benefit schemes in the year ending 31 July 2010 and £11 million 
to the non-UK defined benefit schemes. 
(ii) Financial impact of plans 
As disclosed in the balance sheet 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Current liability (33) (22)
Non-current liability (308) (214)
Total liability (341) (236)
 
Analysis of balance sheet liability 
2009
£m
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2008
£m
Fair value of plan assets:   
 UK 511 542 
 Non-UK 129 130 
 640  672
Present value of defined benefit obligation:   
 UK (737) (693) 
 Non-UK (244) (215) 
 (981)  (908)
Net deficit recognised in balance sheet (341)  (236)
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
117
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Analysis of total expense recognised in income statement 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Current service cost 34 27
Curtailment (2) –
Charged to administrative expenses 32 27
Interest on pension liabilities 57 47
Expected return on scheme assets (47) (50)
Charged/(credited) to finance costs 10 (3)
Total expense recognised in income statement 42 24
 
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Actuarial loss (115) (140)
Unrecognised surplus – 5
 (115) (135)
Deferred tax thereon 36 37
Total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense (79) (98)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense was a loss of  
£177 million (2008: loss of £62 million). 
The assets in the UK schemes and the expected rates of return were: 
  2009 UK   2008 UK
Long-term 
rate of 
return 
expected at 
31 July 
2009
Value at  
31 July  
2009 
£m  
Long-term  
rate of  
return  
expected at  
31 July  
2008 
Value at 
31 July 
2008
£m
Equities 8.0% 350  8.2% 348
Bonds 5.0% 141  5.2% 174
Other 4.7% 20  4.6% 20
Total market value of assets 7.1% 511  7.1% 542
The assets in the non-UK schemes and the expected rates of return were: 
  2009 Non-UK   2008 Non-UK
 
Long-term 
rate of 
return 
expected at 
31 July 
2009
Value at  
31 July  
2009 
£m  
Long-term  
rate of  
return  
expected at  
31 July  
2008 
Value at 
31 July 
2008
£m
Equities 7.6% 59  7.6% 63
Bonds 4.6% 52  5.0% 53
Property 4.7% 6  5.3% 12
Other 3.9% 12  2.1% 2
Total market value of assets 6.0% 129  6.2% 130
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
118 
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Fair value of plan assets 
UK 
2009
£m
Non-UK 
2009
£m
Total 
2009
£m
UK  
2008 
£m 
Non-UK  
2008 
£m 
Total 
2008
£m
At 1 August 542 130 672 588 123 711
Expected return on plan assets 38 9 47 41 9 50
Actuarial loss (87) (26) (113) (103) (14) (117)
Employer’s contributions 42 5 47 30 4 34
Participants’ contributions 12 3 8 5 13
Transfers –2 2 – – –
Settlements –(1) (1) – (1) (1)
Benefits paid (25) (10) (35) (22) (7) (29)
Currency translation –18 18 – 11 11
At 31 July 511 129 640 542 130 672
Actual return on plan assets (48) (17) (65) (62) (5) (67)
The expected long-term rates of return for equities are long-term assumptions and were set after taking actuarial advice. The 
expected equity returns can be considered as a risk free rate of return (determined by reference to government bond rates in 
the countries in which the plans are based) plus a risk premium to reflect the additional risks associated with equities. For the 
UK scheme the expected return implies a premium of 3.2 per cent per year as at 31 July 2009 (2008: 3.4 per cent) over the 
expected return from government bonds. For the principal overseas schemes in USA, Canada and Switzerland a similar 
approach was adopted with returns set by reference to long-term bond rates after taking actuarial advice. 
The Group’s investment strategy for its funded post employment plans is decided locally by the Group and, if relevant, the 
trustees of the plan, and takes account of the relevant statutory requirements. The Group’s objective for the investment strategy 
is to achieve a target rate of return in excess of the increase in the liabilities, while taking an acceptable amount of investment 
risk relative to the liabilities. 
This objective is implemented by using specific allocations to a variety of asset classes that are expected over the long term to 
deliver the target rate of return. Most investment strategies have significant allocations to equities, with the intention that this will 
result in the ongoing cost to the Group of the post-employment plans being lower over the long term and within acceptable 
boundaries of risk. 
For the UK scheme, the policy is to invest approximately 75 per cent of the assets in equities and 25 per cent in other asset 
classes, principally bonds. The investment strategy is subject to regular review by the scheme trustees in consultation with the 
Group. For the overseas schemes the investment strategy involves the investment in defined levels of predominantly equities 
with the remainder of the assets being invested in cash and bonds. 
Present value of defined benefit obligation 
UK 
2009
£m
Non-UK 
2009
£m
Total 
2009
£m
UK  
2008 
£m 
Non-UK  
2008 
£m 
Total 
2008
£m
At 1 August 693 215 908 630 188 818
Current service cost 28 6 34 22 5 27
Curtailment and settlement (2) (1) (3) – (2) (2)
Interest cost 44 13 57 36 11 47
Participants’ contributions 12 3 8 4 12
Benefits paid (26) (20) (46) (22) (14) (36)
Transfers –2 2 – – –
Actuarial (gain)/loss (1) 3 2 19 4 23
Currency translation –24 24 – 19 19
At 31 July 737 244 981 693 215 908
 
Analysis of present value of defined benefit obligation 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Amounts arising from wholly unfunded plans 61 63
Amounts arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded 920 845
 981 908
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
119
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
(iii) Valuation assumptions 
The financial assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations are: 
   2009    2008
 UK Non-UK  UK Non-UK
Discount rate 6.0% 5.3%  6.3% 5.4%
Inflation rate 3.7% 1.6%  4.0% 2.1%
Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 3.7% 0.5%  4.0% 2.4%
Increases to pensions in payment 3.6% 1.0%  3.9% 2.3%
Salary increases 4.7% 1.9%  5.0% 3.0%
The life expectancy assumptions used to estimate defined benefit obligations at 31 July 2009 are: 
   2009    2008
 UK Non-UK  UK Non-UK
Current pensioners (at age 65) – male 20.0 19.6  20.1 19.3
Current pensioners (at age 65) – female 23.0 22.0  22.8 21.7
Future pensioners (at age 65) – male 21.1 19.8  20.8 19.3
Future pensioners (at age 65) – female 24.1 22.1  23.5 21.9
 
History of experience gains and losses – UK schemes 
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Fair value of plan assets 511 542 588 501 404
Present value of defined benefit obligation (737) (693) (630) (619) (527)
Deficit in the plan (226) (151) (42) (118) (123)
Experience adjustments to scheme assets   
 Amount (87) (103) 40 36 46
 Percentage of scheme assets (17)% (19)% 7% 7% 11%
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities   
 Amount – –(8) – –
 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities – –1% – –
 
History of experience gains and losses – non-UK schemes 
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Fair value of plan assets 129 130 123 112 105
Present value of defined benefit obligation (244) (215) (188) (182) (180)
Deficit in the plan (115) (85) (65) (70) (75)
Experience adjustments to scheme assets   
 Amount (26) (14) 5 – 4
 Percentage of scheme assets (20)% (11)% 4% – 4%
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities   
 Amount 1 6 3 (2) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0% 3% 2% 1% – Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
120 
33. Share capital 
  Authorised   Allotted and issued
 2009 2008  2009 2008
Number of ordinary 25 pence shares (million) – 800  – 662
Number of deferred 24 pence shares (million) 890 –  887 –
Number of ordinary 10 pence shares (million) 364 –  284 –
Total number of shares (million) 1,254 800  1,171 662
Nominal value of ordinary 25 pence shares (£ million) – 200  – 165
Nominal value of deferred 24 pence shares (£million) 214 –  213 –
Nominal value of ordinary 10 pence shares (£ million) 36 –  28 –
Total nominal value of shares (£ million) 250 200  241 165
All the allotted and issued shares, including those held by Employee Benefit Trusts, are fully paid or credited as fully paid. 
Allotment of shares during the year 
On 1 April 2009 the Company issued 225 million ordinary 25 pence shares by way of a share placing at 120 pence per share. 
On 2 April 2009 the Company reorganised its share capital. The 886,988,540 ordinary 25 pence shares then in issue were  
split into 886,988,540 ordinary 1 penny shares and 886,988,540 deferred 24 pence shares. The 1 penny shares were then 
consolidated into 88,698,854 ordinary 10 pence shares. 
On 21 April 2009 the Company issued 195,137,478 ordinary 10 pence shares by way of an 11 for 5 rights issue at a price of 
400 pence per share. 
The share placing and rights issue generated net proceeds to the Group of £994 million after costs of £52 million and excluding 
shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trusts. 
In addition, from 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2009, shares in the Company were issued to satisfy options exercised under the 
Company’s share schemes. A summary of the movements in the year is detailed in the following table: 
2009 2008
Number of 25 pence ordinary shares in issue at 1 August 661,982,888 661,165,224
Exercise of savings related share options 5,652 394,962
Exercise of executive share options – 422,702
Share placing (April 2009) 225,000,000 –
Capital reorganisation  (886,988,540) –
Number of 25 pence ordinary shares in issue at 31 July – 661,982,888
  
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in issue after capital reorganisation in  
which ordinary 1 penny shares converted to ordinary 10 pence shares (April 2009) 88,698,854 –
Rights issue of 10 pence ordinary shares (April 2009) 195,137,478 –
Exercise of savings related share options 3,034 –
Number of 10 pence ordinary shares in issue at 31 July 283,839,366 –
  
Number of 24 pence deferred shares in issue after capital reorganisation 886,988,540 –
Number of 24 pence deferred shares in issue at 31 July 886,988,540 –
The deferred shares have no voting rights, no entitlement to a dividend and cannot be traded. 
Employee Benefit Trusts 
Three Employee Benefit Trusts have been established in connection with the Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 and the 
Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme. During the year the trusts participated in the rights issue and consequently 
purchased 1,361,760 shares for £5.4 million. The market value of the 1,978,037 shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts at 
31 July 2009, which have a nominal value of £0.25 million, was £26 million (2008: £21 million). During the year, 6,413 shares 
have been allocated from the Employee Benefit Trust to employees under the Restricted Share Plan. Dividends due on shares 
held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are waived in accordance with the provisions of the trust deeds.  
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
121
34. Share-based payments 
The Group operates seven share option plans: the 1984 Executive Share Option Scheme, the 1989 Executive Share Option 
Scheme and the Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 (collectively, the “Executive Option Schemes”); the Wolseley Employees 
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1981, the Wolseley Irish Sharesave Scheme 2000 and the Wolseley European 
Sharesave Plan 2001 (collectively, the “Employees Savings Option Schemes”); and the Wolseley Employee Share Purchase 
Plan 2001 (the “ESPP”). 
Awards granted under the Executive Option Schemes are subject to a condition such that they may not be exercised unless the 
growth in earnings per share over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds growth in the UK Retail Price Index over 
the same period by at least 9 per cent and consequently vest over a period of three years. Awards granted under the Employee 
Savings Option Schemes vest over periods ranging from three to seven years. Awards granted under the ESPP vest over a 
one-year period. 
The Group also operates a Long Term Incentive Scheme (“LTIS”) and the Wolseley Restricted Share Plan (“RSP”) for senior 
executives. Under the LTIS, executives are awarded a variable number of shares depending on the level of total shareholder 
return over the next three years relative to that of a number of comparator companies. The vesting period is three years.  
The maximum award under the scheme is determined at grant date and then adjusted at vesting date in accordance with the 
market performance condition. Under the RSP, executives (excluding Directors) are granted free shares. The vesting period is 
three years and there are no performance measures other than retained employment. 
Following the capital reorganisation and share issue which was completed during April 2009, appropriate adjustments were 
made to reflect the dilutive effect of both transactions on outstanding awards. The calculations were made in accordance with 
HM Revenue and Customs recommendations (“HMRC”). Such calculations were reviewed by the Company’s auditors, who 
performed specific procedures to recalculate the adjustments made to outstanding awards, on the basis that the Directors of 
the Company deemed the adjustments to be fair and reasonable. 
After adjustments had been made to outstanding awards to reflect the capital reorganisation, a further adjustment was made 
using the theoretical ex-rights price calculation (“TERP”) as agreed with HMRC. All outstanding awards made under the 
Company’s share plans were multiplied by a TERP factor of 2.398177677 and the respective option prices and market prices  
at allocation were multiplied by a factor of 0.416983283. 
These formulae were designed to minimise the effect of the capital reorganisation and the share issue upon outstanding awards 
and, subject to roundings, ensured that the overall value of outstanding awards was the same after adjustment.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
122 
34. Share-based payments continued 
The tables below show the effect of the converted share volume and values following the share capital restructuring and the 
rights issue. For further details of the capital restructuring and the rights issue refer to note 33. 
Share options outstanding during the year 
 Year ended 31 July
 
2009
Shares
000’s
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£ 
2008 
Shares 
000’s 
2008
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
£
Executive Option Schemes   
Outstanding as at 1 August 23,796 9.51 16,672 10.23
Granted 23,796 3.21 9,154 8.06
Exercised –– (422) 4.84
Surrendered or expired pre rights issue (4,418) 11.21 (1,608) 9.93
Outstanding as at 30 April 43,174 5.85  
Converted following rights issue 10,332 24.41  
Surrendered or expired post rights issue (345) 23.12  
Outstanding as at 31 July 9,987 24.46 23,796 9.51
Exercisable as at 31 July 1,220 33.31 5,681 7.95
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 5.02  2.30
Employees Savings Option Schemes and ESPP   
Outstanding as at 1 August 7,934 4.94 3,833 9.10
Granted 14,678 1.67 6,831 4.15
Exercised (6) 4.03 (395) 4.75
Surrendered or expired pre rights issue (5,738) 4.55 (2,335) 9.50
Outstanding as at 30 April 16,868 2.23  
Converted following rights issue 4,007 9.23  
Exercised following rights issue (3) 17.97  
Surrendered or expired post rights issue (161) 14.52  
Outstanding as at 31 July 3,843 9.01 7,934 4.94
Exercisable as at 31 July 52 34.72 257 7.90
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year 3.91  0.93
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £14.95 (2008: £5.82). 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the period was nil (2008: £1 million). The aggregate intrinsic value of options 
outstanding and exercisable at 31 July 2009 was £21 million and nil respectively (2008: nil and nil). 
Details of shares outstanding and exercisable under the LTIS and RSP 
 Year ended 31 July
 
2009
Shares
000’s
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£ 
2008 
Shares 
000’s 
2008
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
£
Outstanding as at 1 August 2,612 10.26 2,189 11.38
Granted 3,315 2.87 1,226 7.86
Vested (4) 13.49 (6) 13.49
Surrendered or expired pre rights issue (860) 10.47 (797) 9.60
Outstanding as at 30 April 5,063 5.39  
Converted following rights issue 1,213 22.45  
Vested post rights issue (3) 56.25  
Surrendered or expired post rights issue (239) 20.90  
Outstanding as at 31 July 971 22.74 2,612 10.26
Exercisable as at 31 July – – – –
Weighted average fair value of shares awarded 4.96  0.78 Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
123
34. Share-based payments continued 
Details of options exercisable 
Options outstanding and exercisable at 31 July 2009 under the Executive Option Schemes, the Employees Saving Option 
Schemes and ESPP can be analysed as follows: 
 Options outstanding Options exercisable
Range of exercise prices 
Shares 
000’s
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life 
Years
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
£
 
Shares  
000’s 
Weighted  
average  
remaining  
contractual  
life  
Years 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
£
£0.01 – £5.00 – – – – – –
£5.01 – £10.00 3,351 3 7.15 – – –
£10.01 – £15.00 5,497 9 13.39 22 1 14.58
£15.01 – £20.00 426 2 17.46 65 2 19.06
£20.01 – £25.00 187 3 22.67 187 3 22.67
£25.01 – £30.00 29 – 27.40 25 – 27.40
£30.01 – £35.00 2,417 8 33.24 322 4 30.98
£35.01 – £40.00 636 5 39.52 624 5 39.57
£40.01 – £45.00 53 2 41.91 – – –
£45.01 – £50.00 38 2 48.00 27 2 47.78
£50.01 – £55.00 1,196 7 50.08 – – –
 13,830720.211,272 4 33.37
The fair value at the date of grant of options awarded during the year has been estimated by the binomial methodology for all 
schemes except the LTIS, for which a Monte Carlo simulation was used. The fair value of shares granted under the RSP was 
calculated as the market price of the shares at the date of grant reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid 
over the vesting period. 
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 
 Executive Share Options Employee Share Options  
Long Term Incentive 
Schemes
 2009 2008 2009 2008  2009 2008
Risk free interest rate 4.09% 4.93% 2.17% 4.19%  3.66% 4.93%
Expected annual increase in dividends* n/a 10.00% n/a 10.00%  n/a n/a
Expected dividend yield n/a n/a n/a n/a  1.04% 2.94%
Expected volatility 35.82% 26.15% 47.86% 31.03%  45.00% 25.00%
Expected life 5.8 years 5.7 years 1–7 years 1–7 years  3 years 3 years
* The initial assumption was a dividend yield of zero up to 31 July 2010 (2008: 11.94 pence and 23.71 pence for interim and final dividends respectively). 
Expected volatility has been estimated on the basis of historic volatility over the expected term, excluding the effect of 
extraordinary volatility due to the capital reorganisation and rights issue. Expected life has been estimated on the basis of 
historical data on the exercise pattern.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
124 
35. Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity  
 Retained earnings 
For the year ended 31 July 2009 
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and  
loss account  
£m 
Total 
£m
Profit for the year attributable to  
equity shareholders – – – – – (1,173) (1,173)
Exchange gain on translation of 
overseas operations – – 661 – – – 661
Exchange loss on translation of 
borrowings designated as hedges  
of overseas operations – – (381) – – – (381)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefits – – – – – (115) (115)
Valuation loss on interest rate swaps 
(less amounts reclassified and 
reported in net income) –– – (20) – – (20)
Tax on gains/(losses) not recognised 
in the income statement – – – 6 – 36 42
Total recognised income and expense – – 280 (14) – (1,252) (986)
New share capital subscribed 76 203 – – – 720 999
Purchase of own shares by  
Employee Benefit Trust – – – – (5) – (5)
Credit to equity for share-based 
payments –– ––– 9 9
Dividends –– ––– – –
Net additions to shareholders’ funds 76 203 280 (14) (5) (523) 17
Opening shareholders’ funds 165 949 (52) 3 (73) 2,367 3,359
Closing shareholders’ funds 241 1,152 228 (11) (78) 1,844 3,376
Ordinarily, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued would be credited to a non-
distributable share premium account. However, the rights issue was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess of 
the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued being recognised within retained earnings under Section 
131 of the Companies Act 1985.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
125
35. Shareholders’ funds and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity continued  
 Retained earnings 
For the year ended 31 July 2008 
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Own  
shares  
£m 
Profit and  
loss account  
£m 
Total 
£m
Profit for the year attributable to  
equity shareholders –– ––– 74 74
Exchange loss on translation of 
overseas operations – – 412 – – – 412
Exchange gain on translation of 
borrowings designated as hedges  
of overseas operations – – (283) – – – (283)
Actuarial loss on retirement benefits – – – – – (135) (135)
Available-for-sale-investments 
reclassified and reported in net  
profit for the year –– ––– 13 13
Tax on gains/(losses) not recognised 
in the income statement – – – – – 33 33
Total recognised income and expense – – 129 – – (15) 114
New share capital subscribed – 4 – – – – 4
Credit to equity for share-based 
payments ––––– 5 5
Dividends ––––– (215) (215)
Net additions to shareholders’ funds – 4 129 – – (225) (92)
Opening shareholders’ funds 165 945 (181) 3 (73) 2,592 3,451
Closing shareholders’ funds 165 949 (52) 3 (73) 2,367 3,359
36. Reconciliation of (loss)/profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (1,173) 74
Net finance costs 145 156
Share of after tax loss of associate 15 –
Tax (income)/expense (246) 71
Loss on disposal of businesses and revaluation of disposal groups 121 –
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 286 212
Amortisation and impairment of non-acquired intangibles 62 30
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 (16)
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 894 306
Decrease in inventories 483 220
Decrease in trade and other receivables 928 247
Decrease in trade and other payables (565) (61)
Increase in provisions and other liabilities 238 18
Share-based payments and other non-cash items 9 5
Cash generated from operations 1,200 1,262
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
126 
37. Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase of businesses 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Purchase consideration – 187
Deferred and contingent consideration paid in the year 18 21
Cash consideration 18 208
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts acquired – (9)
Net cash outflow in respect of the purchase of businesses 18 199
38. Disposals 
During the year ended 31 July 2009, the Group disposed of two businesses in the Central and Eastern Europe segment,  
Mart Kft and Wasco-Anbuma (NV) Belgium. On 6 May 2009 the Group disposed of Stock Building Supply Holdings LLC;  
further details are given in note 9. 
 
Stock 
£m 
Other 
disposals 
£m 
Total 
assets 
disposed of 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 97 5 102
Financial assets 1 – 1
Inventories 150 11 161
Receivables 214 12 226
Assets held for sale 19 – 19
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 15 4 19
Finance leases (4) – (4)
Payables and provisions (202) (5) (207)
Deferred tax – 2 2
Total 290 29 319
Cash consideration received – (17) (17)
Shares in associate received (before deferred tax arising on transactions) (128) – (128)
Disposal and operation costs 44 – 44
Cumulative translation recycled from reserves (47) – (47)
Loss on disposal 159 12 171
 
 
During the year ended 31 July 2008, the Group disposed of three non-core businesses for a consideration of £18 million 
including debt disposed of £2 million. 
  
2008
Assets 
disposed of 
£m
Intangible fixed assets – goodwill  6
Property, plant and equipment  2
Inventories  1
Receivables  5
Borrowings  (2)
Payables  (2)
Total  10
Consideration received  (16)
Profit on disposal  (6)
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
127
39. Reconciliation of opening to closing net debt 
For the year ended 31 July 2009 
At 1 August 
£m
Cash flows 
£m
Acquisitions 
and 
disposals 
£m
New 
finance 
leases 
£m
Fair value  
and other 
adjustments  
£m 
Exchange 
movement  
£m 
At 31 July 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 321  635
Bank overdrafts (118)  (37)
 203 371 – – – 24 598
Financial assets: trading investments 5 150 (1) – – 1 155
Derivative financial instruments 8 31 – – (16) (2) 21
Bank loans (2,598) 1,406 – – (106) (364) (1,662)
Obligations under finance leases (87) 26 4 (4) – (10) (71)
 (2,469) 1,984 3 (4) (122) (351) (959)
 
For the year ended 31 July 2008 
At 1 August 
£m
Cash flows 
£m
Acquisitions 
and 
disposals 
£m
New 
finance 
leases 
£m
Fair value  
and other 
adjustments  
£m 
Exchange 
movement  
£m 
At 31 July 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 244  321
Bank overdrafts (184)  (118)
 60136––– 7 203
Financial assets: trading investments 4 – – – – 1 5
Derivative financial instruments (8) (8) – – 23 1 8
Bank loans (2,443) 254 (39) – (49) (321) (2,598)
Obligations under finance leases (80) 19 (4) (13) – (9) (87)
 (2,467)401(43)(13)(26) (321) (2,469)
40. Related party transactions 
There are no related party transactions requiring disclosure under IAS 24, “Related Party Disclosures” other than the 
compensation of key management personnel which is set out in the following table. 
Key management personal compensation (including Directors) 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Salaries, bonuses and other short-term employee benefits 5 6
Termination and post-employment benefits 2 2
Share-based payments 1 1
Total compensation 8 9
More detailed disclosures on the remuneration of the Directors are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 62 and 72. 
41. Capital commitments 
Authorised capital expenditure which was contracted for but not provided in these accounts was as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2 18
Intangible assets: software 8 9
Total capital commitments 10 27
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
128 
42. Operating lease commitments 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for the following periods are: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Within one year 258 267
Later than one year and less than five years 659 723
After five years 412 513
Total operating lease commitments 1,329 1,503
Operating lease payments mainly represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties. Some of these  
operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rental escalation clauses, though the effect of these is not material.  
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The total minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 July 2009 is £16 million 
(2008: £21 million). 
The commitments shown above include commitments for onerous leases which have already been provided for. At 31 July 
2009 provisions include an amount of £124 million in respect of minimum lease payments for such onerous leases net of 
sublease payments expected to be received (note 31). 
43. Contingent liabilities 
The Group has quantifiable contingent liabilities under sundry guarantees, performance bonds and indemnities of £13 million 
(2008: £13 million) which arose in the ordinary course of business and which have not been provided in these accounts since 
no actual liability is expected to arise. 
44. Parent company 
Wolseley plc is a limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates 
as the ultimate parent company of the Wolseley Group. Its registered office is Parkview 1220, Arlington Business Park, Theale, 
Reading RG7 4GA, United Kingdom. 
45. Accounting standards and interpretations that are not yet effective 
Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing standards have been published that are mandatory  
for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 August 2009 or later periods, but which the Group has not early 
adopted. The new standards which are expected to be relevant to the Group’s operations are as follows: 
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment (applicable from 1 August 2009) 
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only. Other features of a 
share-based payment are not vesting conditions. It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, 
should receive the same accounting treatment. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the 
Group’s future financial statements. 
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations and amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 
(applicable from 1 August 2009) 
These amendments make a number of changes to the method of accounting for business combinations, including a 
requirement to expense acquisition costs and to measure contingent consideration at fair value at acquisition date, and then 
record subsequent changes to the estimate in the income statement. Management is currently assessing the impact of this 
amendment on the Group’s future financial statements. 
IAS 1 (revised) Presentation of financial statements (applicable from 1 August 2009) 
This amendment requires information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and 
introduces a statement of comprehensive income. Preparers will have the option of presenting items of income and expense 
and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two 
separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income). Management is 
currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on the Group’s future financial statements. 
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (applicable from 1 August 2009) 
This amendment requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the extent they are directly attributable to the acquisition, 
production or construction of assets that need a period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. Management is 
currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on the Group’s future financial statements. 
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation (applicable from 1 August 2009) 
IFRIC 16 provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify as a hedged risk in the hedge of a net 
investment in a foreign operation; where, within a group, hedging instruments that are hedges of a net investment in a foreign 
operation can be held to qualify for hedge accounting; and how an entity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from 
equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item. Management is currently assessing the impact of 
this interpretation on the Group’s future financial statements.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Wolseley plc 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
129
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2009 which comprise the 
Group income statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash 
flow statement, the Group accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union.  
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 58, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements  
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements:  
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 July 2009 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then 
ended;  
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and  
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.  
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006  
In our opinion the information given in the Remuneration report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration report specified by law are not made; or  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern; and  
• the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.  
Other matter  
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2009 and 
on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.  
 
Michael Phillips (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
28 September 2009 
  Company balance sheet  
As at 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
130 
 Notes 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Fixed assets   
Investments 2 5,702 4,806
  5,702 4,806
Current assets   
Debtors 3 3,380 2,771
Cash at bank and on hand  360 615
  3,740 3,386
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (4,791) (4,953)
Net current liabilities  (1,051) (1,567)
Total assets less current liabilities  4,651 3,239
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 5 (279) (664)
Net assets  4,372 2,575
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital 6 241 165
Share premium 7 1,152 949
Profit and loss reserve 8 2,979 1,461
Total shareholders’ funds 9 4,372 2,575
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Company financial statements. 
The Company financial statements on pages 130 to 137 were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 September 2009 and 
were signed on its behalf by 
 
 
 
Ian K Meakins Stephen P Webster 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 
  Other information Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements 
Notes to the Company financial statements 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
131
1. Company accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
These Companies Act 2006 financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with 
applicable UK accounting standards. The principal accounting policies, as set out below, have been applied consistently 
throughout the period. 
Note 10 on page 95, note 32 on pages 116 to 119 note 33 on page 120 and note 34 on pages 121 to 123 of the Wolseley plc 
consolidated financial statements form part of these financial statements. 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirements to present its own profit and loss 
account. Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare 
statements of cash flow as the consolidated statements have been published. 
Foreign currencies 
The cost of the Company’s investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the 
date of investment. 
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the 
dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All currency translation differences are taken to the income statement. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment. The Company assesses at each balance sheet date 
whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. 
Taxation 
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years. 
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by 
the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. 
An asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted. Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the 
distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as 
receivable. 
Derivatives and financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks 
arising from the business activities of the Company and the financing of those activities. There is no trading activity in derivative 
financial instruments. 
At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company documents the 
relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument together with its risk management objective and the strategy 
underlying the proposed transaction. The Company also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging 
relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values 
or cash flows of the hedged items. 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. 
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in FRS 26, changes in their fair 
values are recognised in the income statement. 
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net 
investment hedges. Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset 
or liability is adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss is 
recognised in the profit and loss account where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair 
value of the hedging instrument. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying 
amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. 
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is 
effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity rather 
than in the profit and loss account. When the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and 
losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the profit and loss account or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial 
asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a 
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in 
equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to 
the profit and loss account.  Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
132 
1. Company accounting policies continued 
Financial guarantees 
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at fair value as at the reporting date. Fair value is 
estimated by discounting expected cash flows at a market rate. Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Pensions and post-retirement benefits 
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement as 
incurred. 
For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement benefits, the cost is calculated annually using the projected unit credit 
method and is recognised over the average expected remaining service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the 
recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. The current service cost of defined benefit plans is recorded within 
operating profit, the expected return from pension scheme assets is recorded within finance revenue and the interest on 
pension scheme liabilities is recorded within finance costs. Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recorded 
within operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have vested. 
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences between the expected and actual returns on the plan assets and the 
effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the period in 
which they occur. The defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each plan of 
the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less any past service costs not yet recognised, less the fair 
value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date. Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to the 
amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount which the Company expects to recover by 
way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions. 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash in hand and deposits held at call with banks. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and practice of net settlement 
with cash balances. 
Share capital 
The Company has two classes of shares, ordinary and deferred shares, which are both classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. 
Where the Company or the Company’s trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs (net of tax), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until 
the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 
received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity 
attributable to the Company’s equity holders. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred. 
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs)  
and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Share-based payments 
Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Company’s executive share option, long-term incentive and share 
purchase schemes. The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair value 
of the awards, measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies. For equity-settled schemes, 
the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless the conditions on which the award 
was granted are modified. For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is re-measured at 
each balance sheet date until the liability is settled. Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure 
to satisfy service conditions or achieve non-market performance conditions. 
Dividends payable 
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are 
approved by the shareholders of the Company (generally in the case of the final dividend) or paid (in the case of interim 
dividends).  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
133
2. Fixed asset investments 
 
Cost 
£m 
Provision 
£m 
Total
£m
As at 1 August 2008 4,832 (26) 4,806
Additions 896 – 896
As at 31 July 2009 5,728 (26) 5,702
During the year Wolseley Treasury (USD) was transferred to the Company by way of a dividend in specie of £896 million  
from Wolseley Group Holdings Limited. All of the above investments are in unlisted shares. Particulars of principal subsidiary 
undertakings are listed on pages 144 and 145 of the Annual Report. The Directors believe that the carrying value of the 
investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
3. Debtors 
Amounts falling due within one year 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Amounts due from Group companies 3,315 2,710
Corporation tax recoverable 52 50
Derivative financial assets (note 12) 12 11
Deferred tax 1 –
Total debtors 3,380 2,771
The fair value of amounts included in debtors approximates to book value. Amounts due from Group companies are payable on 
demand and interest is charged at interest rates that vary between LIBOR + 0.5 and LIBOR + 2.0 per cent. 
4. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 13) 188 308
Deferred tax – 16
Derivative financial liabilities (note 12) 25 8
Amounts due to Group companies 4,578 4,615
Other creditors – 6
Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4,791 4,953
The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book value. Amounts due to Group companies are payable on 
demand and interest is charged at interest rates that vary between LIBOR + 0.5 and LIBOR + 2.0 per cent. 
5. Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 13) 268 664
Derivative financial liabilities (note 12) 11 –
Total creditors: amounts falling due after one year 279 664
The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book value. 
6. Share capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 33, on page 120, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial 
statements. 
7. Share premium 
  £m
At 1 August 2008  949
New share capital subscribed  203
At 31 July 2009  1,152
  Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
134 
8. Profit and loss reserve 
  £m
At 1 August 2008  1,461
New share capital subscribed  720
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust  (5)
Profit for the period  794
Equity-settled employee share options  9
At 31 July 2009  2,979
Included in the profit and loss reserve is an amount of £1,838 million which may not be distributable. The balance of  
£1,141 million is distributable. 
9. Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Opening shareholders’ funds 2,575 2,842
Issue of share capital of £0.25 each 56 –
Issue of share capital of £0.10 each 20 –
Share premium on new share capital subscribed 203 4
New share capital subscribed 720 –
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust (5) –
Profit for the period 794 (61)
Dividends – (215)
Equity-settled employee share options 9 5
Closing shareholders’ funds 4,372 2,575
On 1 April 2009 the Company issued 225 million ordinary 25 pence shares by way of a private placing at 120 pence per share. 
On 2 April 2009 the Company reorganised its share capital. The 886,988,540 ordinary 25 pence shares then in issue were split 
into 886,988,540 ordinary 1 penny shares and 886,988,540 deferred 24 pence shares. The 1 penny shares were then 
consolidated into 88,698,854 ordinary 10 pence shares. 
On 21 April 2009 the Company issued 195,137,478 ordinary 10 pence shares by way of an 11 for 5 rights issue at a price of 
400 pence per share. 
Ordinarily, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued would be credited to a non-
distributable share premium account. However, the rights issue was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess  
of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued being recognised within retained earnings under Section 131 
of the Companies Act 1985. 
The share placing and rights issue generated net proceeds to the Company of £994 million after costs of £52 million and 
excluding shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trusts. 
10. Retirement benefit obligations 
The Company participates in the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan. This is a defined benefit multi-employer plan,  
the assets and liabilities of which are held independently from the Group. The Company is unable to identify its share of the 
underlying assets and liabilities of the plan and accordingly accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan. 
Information in respect of the plan is provided in note 32, on pages 116 to 119, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial 
statements. The total contribution to the defined benefit plan in the year was £nil (2008: £nil). 
11. Share-based payments 
Details of share options granted by Group companies to employees, and that remain outstanding, over the Company’s shares 
are set out in note 34, on pages 121 to 123, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. The Company recognised 
an equity-settled share-based payment charge of £2 million in the year (2008: £1 million).  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
135
12. Derivative financial instruments 
Current assets 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps – 10
Currency swaps: at fair value through profit and loss 12 1
Derivative financial assets 12 11
 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps (14) (8)
Currency swaps: at fair value through profit and loss (11) –
Derivative financial liabilities (25) (8)
 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Interest rate swaps (11) –
Derivative financial liabilities (11) –
Interest rate swaps 
The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its and the Group’s exposure to interest rate movements on their 
borrowings. The fair value of interest rate swaps is estimated on the basis of the market values of equivalent instruments at the 
balance sheet date. 
The Group’s bank borrowings generally attract variable interest rates based on six-month LIBOR. For Group purposes interest 
rate swap contracts comprising fixed interest payable on notional principal of €900 million (2008: $300 million and €1,000 
million) and basis point swaps with notional principal of €900 million (2008: $300 million and €400 million) are designated and 
effective as cash flow hedges, and the valuation gains have been deferred in equity until realised. The Company has recognised 
the valuation gains through profit and loss. The contracts expire between August 2009 and August 2011 (2008: September 
2008 and August 2011), and the fixed interest rates range between 2.59 and 4.59 per cent (2008: 2.49 and 5.42 per cent). 
At fair value through profit and loss 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 2 9
Valuation losses charged to profit and loss (21) –
Cash settlements in the period (5) (8)
Exchange (1) 1
At 31 July (25) 2
Currency swaps 
The Company uses currency swaps either to obtain the optimum return on its and the Group’s surplus funds or to hedge the 
spot exchange rate risk of its and the Group’s assets and liabilities, principally loans. The fair value of currency swaps has been 
estimated as the cost of closing out the contracts using market prices at the balance sheet date. 
At fair value through profit and loss 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
At 1 August 1 –
Valuation (losses)/gains (charged)/credited to profit and loss (36) 1
Cash settlements in the period 36 –
At 31 July 1 1
  Notes to the Company financial statements continued 
Year ended 31 July 2009 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
136 
12. Derivative financial instruments continued 
At the balance sheet date the Company had entered into certain short-term currency swaps and forward contracts as follows: 
 2009   2008
 
Currency 
million £m  
Currency 
million £m
Bought forward EUR 585 500  DKK 1,784 188
 DKK 720 82  GBP 119 119
 CZK 95 3  USD 178 90
   Other 10
Sold forward GBP 251 (251)  EUR 459 (361)
 USD 380 (227)  CAD 91 (45)
 CAD 135 (75)   
 CHF 56 (31)   
 1   1
13. Bank loans and overdrafts 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank overdrafts 188 308
The fair values of overdrafts and loans falling due within one year approximate to book value due to their short maturities. 
The currency analysis of bank loans and overdrafts is as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling 71 –
US dollar 11 101
Euro 59 147
Other 47 60
 188 308
 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Bank loans 268 664
  
The loans falling due after one year are repayable as follows:  
Due in two to five years 268 664
 268 664
The fair values of loans falling due after one year approximate to book value due to being at floating rates. At 31 July 2009, no 
loans carried a fixed interest rate (2008: £nil). Interest payments on floating rate loans are determined by reference to short-term 
benchmark rates applicable to the relevant currency or market, such as LIBOR. 
The currency analysis of loans falling due after one year is as follows: 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Sterling – –
US dollar 268 402
Euro – 234
Other – 28
 268 664
  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 
 
 
 Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
137
14. Contingent liabilities 
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims and legal actions in progress. The Company takes legal 
advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made. 
At 31 July 2009, the Company has a quantifiable contingent liability for value added tax of certain subsidiary undertakings of 
£11 million (2008: £16 million) which arose in the ordinary course of business and has not been provided in these accounts 
since no actual liability is expected to arise. 
In addition, the Company has given its principal UK bank authority to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit 
against or towards satisfaction of the liability to the bank of certain subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company and certain Group 
companies in respect of which no material liabilities are expected to arise. 
15. Employees, employee costs and auditors’ remuneration 
The average number of employees (including Directors) of the Company in the year ended 31 July 2009 was 17 (2008: 17). 
Total employee costs of the Company for the year were £5 million (2008: £5 million). 
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of the Company’s financial statements are set out in note 3, on page 91, to the 
Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. 
16. Dividends 
Details of the Company’s dividends are set out in note 10, on page 95, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. 
17. Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under the terms of paragraph 3 (a) of FRS 8 “Related Party 
Disclosures” to dispense with the requirement to disclose transactions with subsidiaries, 90 per cent or more whose voting 
rights are held within the Group, and which are included in the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements. 
18. Accounting standards and interpretations that are not yet effective 
Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing standards have been published that are mandatory for 
the Company’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 August 2009 or later periods, but which the Company has not early 
adopted. The new standards which are expected to be relevant to the Company’s operations are as follows: 
Amendment to FRS 20 Share-based Payment (effective from 1 August 2009) 
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only. Other features of a 
share-based payment are not vesting conditions. It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, 
should receive the same accounting treatment. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the 
Company’s future financial statements. 
Amendment to FRS 20 Share-based Payment (effective from 1 August 2010) 
The amendment clarifies both the scope of the standard and the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment 
transactions in the separate or individual financial statements of the entity receiving the goods or services when that entity has 
no obligation to settle the share-based payments transaction. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment 
on the Company’s future financial statements. 
Amendment to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (effective from 1 August 2009) 
The amendment clarifies how the existing principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in two particular situations, 
namely the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item and inflation in a financial hedged item. Management is currently 
assessing the impact of this amendment on the Company’s future financial statements. 
Amendment to FRS 29 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments (effective from 1 August 2009) 
The amendments require enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk and incorporate credit risk 
disclosures for loans and receivables. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Company’s 
future financial statements. 
  Independent auditors’ report to the members of Wolseley plc 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
138 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2009 which comprise the 
Company Balance Sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 58, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Sections 495 to 497 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements  
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:  
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 July 2009; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:  
• the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and  
• the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:  
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or  
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or  
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.  
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2009. 
 
Michael Phillips (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
28 September 2009  Other information Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements 
Five year summary  
 
 
   Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
139
 
2009
£m
2008
(restated)
£m
2007 
(restated) 
£m 
2006 
(restated) 
£m 
2005
(restated)
£m
Revenue from continuing operations   
UK and Ireland 2,699 3,203 3,171 2,690 2,351
France 2,144 2,116 1,872 1,725 1,644
Nordic 2,113 2,290 1,670 – –
Central and Eastern Europe 965 908 846 735 642
Europe 7,921 8,517 7,559 5,150 4,637
US plumbing and heating 5,820 5,613 5,685 5,396 3,858
Canada 700 684 619 646 512
North America 6,520 6,297 6,304 6,042 4,370
 14,441 14,814 13,863 11,192 9,007
Trading profit from continuing operations   
UK and Ireland 55 176 211 201 183
France 32 103 101 91 98
Nordic 96 159 102 – –
Central and Eastern Europe – – 32 31 30
Europe central costs (4) (10) (13) (7) (4)
Europe 179 428 433 316 307
US plumbing and heating 317 397 411 378 260
Canada 32 39 42 44 36
North America plumbing and heating 349 436 453 422 296
North America loan services (24) (19) (5) (3) (2)
North America central costs (8) (8) (10) (11) (1)
North America 317 409 438 408 293
Group central costs (49) (50) (43) (37) (25)
 447 787 828 687 575
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (105) (105) (88) (24) (4)
Impairment of acquired intangibles (490) (57) – – –
Exceptional items (458) (70) – – –
Operating (loss)/profit from continuing operations (606) 555 740 663 571
Net interest payable (145) (156) (119) (65) (37)
Share of after tax loss of associate (15) –– – –
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before tax from  
continuing operations (766) 399 621 598 534
Tax credit/(charge) 34 (157) (159) (214) (144)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after tax from  
continuing operations (732) 242 462 384 390
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (441) (168) 12 153 89
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders (1,173) 74 474 537 479
Ordinary dividends – (74) (211) (186) (155)
  Five year summary continued 
 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
140 
 
 
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2005
£m
Net assets employed   
Intangible fixed assets 2,223 2,836 2,680 1,506 948
Property, plant and equipment 1,593 1,842 1,718 1,144 833
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 519 1,150 1,520 1,892 1,691
 4,335 5,828 5,918 4,542 3,472
Financed by   
Share capital 241 165 165 149 148
Share premium 1,152 949 945 288 241
Foreign currency translation reserve 228 (52) (181) (49) 82
Profit and loss account 1,755 2,297 2,522 2,204 1,830
Shareholders’ funds 3,376 3,359 3,451 2,592 2,301
Net debt 959 2,469 2,467 1,950 1,171
Net assets employed 4,335 5,828 5,918 4,542 3,472
Cumulative goodwill and acquired intangibles written off 1,992 1,097 791 667 619
Gross capital employed for continuing and discontinued 
operations 6,327 6,925 6,709 5,209 4,091
  Other information Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements 
 
   Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
141
 
 
2009 2008
(restated)
2007 
(restated) 
2006 
(restated) 
2005
(restated)
Trading margin from continuing operations 3.1% 5.3% 6.0% 6.1% 6.4%
Earnings per share from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of 
acquired intangibles (note 3) 95.6p 240.3p 309.8p 250.0p 243.5p
Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued 
operations  (note 3) (558.0)p 41.0p 266.7p 329.3p 296.1p
Dividends per share (in respect of the financial year) (note 3) – 40.8p 117.5p 106.7p 95.8p
Cover for ordinary dividends – 1.0 2.2 3.1 3.1
Gearing ratio (note 1) 28.4% 73.5% 71.5% 75.2% 50.9%
Net tangible assets per ordinary share (note 3) 406.2p 286.6p 423.2p 658.9p 829.2p
Return on gross capital employed for continuing operations 
(note 2)  6.9% 12.7% 15.2% 18.3% 19.2%
Average number of employees for continuing operations 55,132 62,774 63,136 47,058 42,732
Aggregate wages and salaries for continuing operations  
(£ million) 1,765 1,654 1,524 1,253 978
Number of shares in issue at year end (million) (note 3) 284182182 165 163
Number of branches at year end   
Europe 2,9413,3893,311 2,861 2,486
North America 1,453 1,636 1,677 1,483 1,179
Total continuing operations 4,394 5,025 4,988 4,344 3,665
Discontinued operations – 285 308 314 255
Total branches 4,394 5,310 5,296 4,658 3,920
US dollar translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.5708 2.0000 1.9487 1.7885 1.8514
Balance sheet 1.6718 1.9835 2.0285 1.8673 1.7564
Canadian dollar translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.8471 2.0134 2.1932 2.0595 2.2997
Balance sheet 1.8017 2.0293 2.1644 2.1128 2.1464
Euro translation rate   
Income statement/profit and loss 1.1597 1.3470 1.4823 1.4577 1.4587
Balance sheet 1.1729 1.2715 1.4835 1.4628 1.4479
Note 1. The gearing ratio is the ratio of net debt, excluding construction loan borrowings, to shareholders’ funds. 
Note 2. Return on gross capital employed is the ratio of trading profit (before loss on disposal of operations, exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of 
goodwill and acquired intangibles) to the aggregate of average shareholders’ funds, minority interests, net debt and cumulative goodwill written off. 
Note 3. Shares in issue and amounts per share for prior years have been restated to show the amount per equivalent new 10 pence share. 
 
  Pro forma information in United States dollars 
  Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
142 
 
2009
$m
2008
(restated)
$m
2007 
(restated) 
$m 
2006 
(restated) 
$m 
2005
(restated)
$m
Revenue from continuing operations   
UK and Ireland 4,240 6,406 6,179 4,811 4,353
France 3,368 4,232 3,648 3,085 3,044
Nordic 3,319 4,580 3,254 – –
Central and Eastern Europe 1,516 1,816 1,649 1,315 1,188
Europe 12,443 17,034 14,730 9,211 8,585
US plumbing and heating 9,142 11,226 11,079 9,651 7,142
Canada 1,100 1,368 1,206 1,155 948
North America 10,242 12,594 12,285 10,806 8,090
 22,685 29,628 27,015 20,017 16,675
Trading profit from continuing operations   
UK and Ireland 86 352 411 359 339
France 50 206 197 163 181
Nordic 151 318 199 – –
Central and Eastern Europe – – 62 55 55
Europe central costs (6) (20) (25) (12) (7)
Europe 281 856 844 565 568
US plumbing and heating 498 794 800 676 481
Canada 50 78 82 79 67
North America plumbing and heating   
North America loan services (38) (38) (10) (5) (4)
North America central costs (13) (16) (19) (20) (2)
North America 497 818 853 730 542
Group central costs (77) (100) (84) (66) (46)
 701 1,574 1,613 1,229 1,064
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles  
(other than goodwill) (165) (210) (171) (43) (7)
Goodwill amortisation and impairment (770) (114) – – –
Exceptional items (719) (140) – – –
Operating (loss)/profit from continuing operations (953) 1,110 1,442 1,186 1,057
Net interest payable (228) (312) (232) (116) (69)
Share of after tax loss of associate (24) –– – –
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before tax from  
continuing operations (1,205) 798 1,210 1,070 988
Tax credit/(charge) 53 (314) (310) (383) (267)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities after tax from  
continuing operations (1,152) 484 900 687 721
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (693) (336) 23 273 166
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity shareholders (1,845) 148 923 960 887
Ordinary dividends – (148) (411) (333) (288)
  Other information Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements 
 
   Wolseley plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
143
 
 
2009
$m
2008
$m
2007 
$m 
2006 
$m 
2005
$m
Net assets employed   
Intangible fixed assets 3,716 5,625 5,437 2,812 1,665
Property, plant and equipment 2,663 3,654 3,485 2,136 1,463
Other net assets, excluding liquid funds 868 2,281 3,083 3,533 2,970
 7,247 11,560 12,005 8,481 6,098
Financed by   
Share capital 403 327 335 278 260
Share premium 1,926 1,882 1,917 538 423
Foreign currency translation reserve 381 (103) (367) (91) 144
Profit and loss account 2,934 4,556 5,116 4,115 3,214
Shareholders’ funds 5,644 6,663 7,001 4,840 4,041
Net debt 1,603 4,897 5,004 3,641 2,057
Net assets employed 7,247 11,560 12,005 8,481 6,098
Cumulative goodwill written off 3,330 2,176 1,605 1,245 1,087
Gross capital employed for continuing and  
discontinued operations 10,577 13,736 13,610 9,726 7,185
The above information has been extracted from the five year summary on pages 139 to 141. Income statement figures have 
been translated using the relevant year’s income statement/profit and loss US dollar translation rate as set out on page 141. 
Balance sheet figures have been translated at the relevant year’s balance sheet US dollar translation rate as set out on page 141.  144 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Principal subsidiary undertakings and their directors 
Europe
United Kingdom
Wolseley UK Limited
Leamington Spa
Warwickshire CV31 3HH
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Directors
S Ashmore, R H Marchbank, 
M J Neville
Ireland
Wolseley Ireland Limited
Athlone, Co. Westmeath
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Republic of Ireland)
Directors
S McBride, M J Neville, 
P Roche, C Soden
Wolseley Ireland Holdings Limited
Athlone, Co. Westmeath
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Republic of Ireland)
Directors
S McBride, M Neville, 
P Roche, C Soden
France
Brossette SAS
69007 Lyon
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Président-directeur général
P Gardies
PB & M SAS
92400 Courbevoie
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Président-directeur général
P Gardies
Denmark
DT Group A/S
Gladsaxe Mollevej, 5 DK-2860 Soborg
(Incorporated and operational in 
Denmark)
Directors
M Asim, K S Borregaard, 
R H Marchbank, B W Mortensen, 
R I Shoylekov, S Weirsøe
Electro-Oil International A/S
DK-2600 Glostrup
(Incorporated and operational in 
Denmark)
Directors
R Bailkoski, B Øestergaard, 
D Rasmussen
Austria
OAG AG
A-1110 Wien
(Incorporated and operational in Austria)
Director
M Lanik
Supervisory Board
R Bailkoski, T Brophy, P Frank, 
R H Marchbank, T Zwettler
Belgium
Wasco-Centratec NV
3001 Heverlee
(Incorporated and operational in 
Belgium)
Directors
R B Bailkoski, T Brophy, M J R Verrier, 
S P Webster
Czech Republic
Wolseley Czech Republic spol. s r.o.
619 00 Brno
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Czech Republic)
Managing Director
T C Vogelesang
Statutory representatives
R B Bailkoski, M Dvoracek, 
T C Vogelesang 
Wolseley Eastern Europe a.s.
Prague 8
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Czech Republic)
Directors
M Hlineck´ y, S Weirsoe
Supervisory Board
T Brophy, N G Parry, J Clausen, 
R I Shoylekov 
Italy
Manzardo SpA
39100 Bolzano
(Incorporated and operational in Italy) 
Directors
R B Bailkoski, T Brophy, N Gasparoni 
Luxembourg
Comptoir des Fers et Métaux SA
L-1882 Luxembourg
(Incorporated and operational in 
Luxembourg)
Directors
R B Bailkoski, P Bröecker, T Brophy
Netherlands
Wasco Holding B.V .
7391 AL Twello
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Netherlands)
Directors
R B Bailkoski, H A T van den Belt
Switzerland
Tobler Haustechnik AG
8902 Urdorf
(Incorporated and operational in 
Switzerland)
Directors
R B Bailkoski, E Ballmer, A Ronchetti, 
H Wiedmer
North America
USA
Ferguson Enterprises Inc.
Newport News, Virginia 23602
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Directors
L A Byrd, J K Cross, J A Feltman, 
S F Grosslight, M L Grunkemeyer, 
T E Hall, W S Hargette, D L Keltner, 
K M Murphy, S D Petock, J A Posey, 
F W Roach, S M Roznowski, 
W S Russell, D P Strup, 
K D VanderVennet, J L Wilcox
Canada
Wolseley Canada Inc
Burlington, Ontario
(Incorporated and operational in 
Canada)
Directors
M D Lamontagne, F W Roach,
K D VanderVennet
Wolseley Industrial Products 
Group Inc
Burlington, Ontario
(Incorporated and operational in 
Canada)
Directors
M D Lamontagne, F W Roach, 
K D VanderVennet Wolseley plc 145 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Service companies
Jule B1 Limited
(Incorporated Guernsey and operational 
in the United Kingdom)
Jule P Limited
(Incorporated and operational in 
Guernsey)
Jule T Limited
(Incorporated and operational in 
Guernsey)
Ridgeﬂ ower Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
WF (Cherwell) LP
(Established and operational in 
Guernsey)
Wolseley Capital, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Wolseley Capital Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Capital (Parkview) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Central and 
Eastern Europe AG
(Incorporated and operational in 
Switzerland)
*Wolseley Europe Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Gibraltar) Limited
(Incorporated in Gibraltar and 
operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Hawn) LLC
(Incorporated in the United States 
of America and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Isis) S.a.r.l.
(Incorporated and operational in 
Luxembourg)
Wolseley Finance (Isle of Man) 
Limited
(Incorporated in the Isle of Man and 
operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Kennet) S.a.r.l.
(Incorporated and operational in 
Luxembourg)
Wolseley Finance (Loddon) S.a.r.l.
(Incorporated and operational in 
Luxembourg)
Wolseley Finance (Parkview No. 2) 
Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Thames) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Finance (Theale) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley France SAS
(Incorporated and operational in France)
Wolseley (Group Services) Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
*Wolseley Group Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Holdings Canada Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in 
Canada)
Wolseley Holdings Denmark ApS
(Incorporated and operational in 
Denmark)
Wolseley-Hughes Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Insurance Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
Isle of Man)
Wolseley Investments, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Wolseley Investments North 
America, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Wolseley Nordic Holdings AB
(Incorporated and operational in 
Sweden) 
Wolseley North American 
Services, Inc.
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Wolseley Overseas Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Wolseley UK Finance Limited
(Incorporated in Guernsey and 
operational in the United Kingdom)
Wolseley UK Holdings Limited
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United Kingdom)
Associates
Saturn Acquisition Holdings, LLC
Los Angeles, California 90024
(Incorporated and operational in the 
United States of America)
Wolseley Directors
F W Roach, D Keltner
All subsidiary undertakings have been 
included in the consolidation.
Shareholdings in companies marked * 
are held by Wolseley plc. All other 
shareholdings in the above mentioned 
companies are held by intermediate 
subsidiary undertakings.
Details of Directors and ofﬁ cers are 
reported as at 28 September 2009. 
All shareholdings in the above subsidiary 
undertakings are of ordinary shares or 
equity capital, plus the following 
preference shares in the case of:
Wolseley Finance (Isle of Man) 
Limited
100% 
Wolseley Insurance Limited
100%
Wolseley Investments Inc.
100%
Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited
100%
Wolseley UK Finance Limited
100%
Wolseley UK Holdings Limited
100% 146 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Shareholder information
Shareview is a service offered by Equiniti, our Registrars, 
which allows shareholders online access to a range of 
shareholder information. Shareview provides access to 
details of shareholdings in the Company and practical help 
on transferring shares or updating personal details. It also 
allows shareholders to choose to receive shareholder 
communications electronically, rather than by post. To register, 
shareholders simply need to log on to www.shareview.co.uk 
with their shareholder reference number and complete the 
simple on-screen registration process. 
First-time users will need to enter certain information and 
choose a personal identiﬁ cation number before they are able 
to access their shareholding details. By logging on to www.
shareview.co.uk, you will be able to do all of the following at 
the click of a mouse:
• check your shareholding in Wolseley plc 24 hours a day;
•  register your email and mailing preference (post or 
electronic) for future shareholder mailings;
•  gain easy access to a variety of shareholder information 
including indicative valuations and payment instruction 
details;
• access the share dealing facility; and
•  use the internet to appoint a proxy for you at general 
meetings of the shareholders.
The Company can, at shareholders’ request, send 
shareholders an email notiﬁ cation each time a new 
shareholder report or other shareholder communication is put 
on the website. Shareholders will then be able to read and/or 
download the information at their leisure, but will still be able 
to request paper copies of the documents should they 
so wish. 
Share dealing
UK-based shareholders are also offered a simple and 
convenient telephone and internet share sale and purchase 
service by our Registrars. Equiniti Shareview dealing is 
available for telephone purchases and sales on 0871 384 
2020 between 8:30am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday and 
for internet purchases and sales via www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing. A postal dealing service is also available and a form 
together with terms and conditions can be obtained from 
Equiniti by calling 0871 384 2934. Calls to these numbers 
are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. 
Other telephony providers’ costs may vary.
2009 Capitalisation and share issue 
information
On 6 March 2009, Wolseley plc announced a capital 
reorganisation and share issue. Following receipt of 
shareholder approval, the 25 pence ordinary shares of 
the Company were split into 1 penny ordinary shares and 
24 pence deferred shares on 2 April 2009; immediately 
following the share split, the 1 penny ordinary shares were 
then consolidated on a ten for one basis. This created the 
new 10 pence ordinary shares. On 3 April 2009, eligible 
shareholders were then given the opportunity to participate 
in a rights issue on the basis of 11 new shares for every ﬁ ve 
existing shares held on 1 April 2009, at a subscription price 
of 400 pence per share. The rights issue offer period ended 
on 21 April and dealing in the new fully paid 10 pence 
ordinary shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange 
on 22 April 2009. Information relating to the transaction, 
including the taxable treatment of the rights (or payment for 
rights not taken up), is available in the prospectus available at 
www.wolseley.com.
Stock Exchange Listings
The ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company 
are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Company 
operates a Level I American Depositary Receipts (“ADR”) 
programme. On 2 April 2009, following the capital 
reorganisation, the ADR ratio was changed from one ADR 
equalling one ordinary share to one ADR equalling one-tenth 
of an ordinary share. These ADRs are listed on the premier tier 
of the over-the-counter market “OTCQX”. Further information 
can be found at www.pinksheets.com or www.otcqx.com.
Published information
Further copies of the Annual Report may be obtained from the 
Investor Relations Department/Corporate Communications 
Department, Wolseley plc, Parkview 1220, Arlington Business 
Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA, United Kingdom. Company 
information may also be viewed on the Company’s website at 
www.wolseley.com. If you would like to receive a copy of the 
Annual Report in an appropriate alternative format, such as 
Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group 
Company Secretariat on +44 (0)118 929 8700. Wolseley plc 147 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Group information
Head Ofﬁ ce and Registered Ofﬁ ce
Parkview 1220
Arlington Business Park
Theale
Reading RG7 4GA
Telephone: +44 (0) 118 929 8700
Fax: +44 (0) 118 929 8701
Website: www.wolseley.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Corporate brokers
Deutsche Bank
UBS Limited
Solicitors
Freshﬁ elds Bruckhaus Deringer
UK Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6BN
Telephone:
within the UK: 0871 384 2934* 
from overseas: +44 (0)121 415 7011
Website: www.equiniti.com
*Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. 
Other telephony providers’ costs may vary.
American Depositary Receipts
The Bank of New York Mellon
Investor Relations
PO Box 11258 Church Street Station
New York, NY 10286 – 1258
Telephone: within the US toll free:
1-888-BNY-ADRS
from overseas: +1 212 495 1784
Website: http://www.stockbny.com
Principal committees of the Board
Audit Committee
James I K Murray – Chairman
Gareth Davis
Nigel M Stein
Michael P Wareing (with effect from 1 October 2009)
Remuneration Committee
Andrew J Duff – Chairman
Gareth Davis
Nigel M Stein 
Nominations Committee
John W Whybrow – Chairman
Gareth Davis
Andrew J Duff
Alain Le Goff (with effect from 1 September 2009)
James I K Murray 
Nigel M Stein 
Michael P Wareing (with effect from 1 October 2009)
Treasury Committee
Stephen P Webster – Chairman
Derek J Harding (with effect from 1 October 2009)
Ian K Meakins
Michael J R Verrier 
Michael P Wareing (with effect from 1 October 2009)
Corporate timetable
18 November 2009
Annual General Meeting. Interim Management 
Statement released
22 March 2010*
Announcement of Half Year results for the period ending 
31 January 2010 
24 May 2010*
Interim Management Statement released
31 July 2010
End of ﬁ nancial year 2009/10
27 September 2010*
Final Year results for the year ending 31 July 2010 announced
*Dates are based on current expectations.
The Half Year and Final Year results announcements and 
the Interim Management Statements will be available on 
the Company’s website at www.wolseley.com following 
their release. 148 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Forward-looking statement
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and 
Accounts may be forward-looking and may (and often do) 
involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking 
statements include, without limitation, projections relating to 
results of operations and ﬁ nancial conditions and the 
Company’s plans and objectives for future operations 
including, without limitation, discussions of the Company’s 
business and ﬁ nancial plans, expected future revenues and 
expenditures, investments and disposals, risks associated 
with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the 
plumbing and heating and building materials market in North 
America and Europe, ﬂ uctuations in product prices and 
changes in exchange and interest rates. All forward-looking 
statements in this respect are based upon information known 
to the Company on the date of this report. Accordingly, 
readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on 
forward-looking statements, which speak only at their 
respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or 
revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise. It is not 
reasonably possible to itemise all of the many factors and 
events that could cause the Company’s forward-looking 
statements to be incorrect or that could otherwise have a 
material adverse effect on the future operations or results of 
the Company. Credits
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
Board photography by Bill Robinson
Paper
This report is printed on Revive 50:50 paper and cover board, with Revive 
Uncoated used in the ﬁ nancial section. Revive 50:50 is made from 50 per cent 
recovered waste ﬁ bre and 50 per cent virgin wood ﬁ bre. Revive Uncoated is 
made from 80 per cent de-inked post-consumer waste and 20 per cent virgin 
wood ﬁ bre. Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced 
in mills which hold ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Printing
Printed by St.Ives Westerham Press. The printing inks are made with non-
hazardous vegetable oil from renewable sources. Over 90 per cent of solvents 
and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place 
for all other waste associated with this production. St.Ives Westerham Press is 
FSC and ISO 14001 certiﬁ ed with strict procedures in place to safeguard the 
environment through all processes.
The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this 
Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through a hydro power 
project in China. Wolseley plc
Parkview 1220
Arlington Business Park
Theale
Reading RG7 4GA
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)118 929 8700
Fax +44 (0)118 929 8701
Registration No. 29846 England
www.wolseley.com
